ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Act on the basis of 21 members of the Riigikogu at the time requested and the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the resignation of the member of the Riigikogu Juhan Parts, Tiina Kangro became a member of the Riigikogu on 16 December. Let's hear Tiina Kangro's oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U4	It is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries to the Riigikogu. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the seven members of the Conservative People's Party, I am renegotiating an inquiry which was returned the previous time because the addressee was not suitable. We now submit an inquiry to Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, and last time we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, the areas of work are divided into two camps and the intention to develop draft laws governing gender change is Mr Ossinovski's competence. In a sense, this again reflects the starting point where this scheme even found the path to the media. All five questions with explanations are the same as last time. We look forward to giving the Minister answers with renewed momentum in the new year. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U6	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U7	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act and related amendments to other laws. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Tobacco Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Merry Christmas to you all!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U8	I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. We deliver them on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Honourable Riigikogu, presence control, please! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. The extraordinary session is convened and operational. Dear Riigikogu, we need to establish a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. The agenda will be written to us by the conveners of the session, but it is up to us, the House, to set the timetable for the work. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of the votes. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of establishing the timetable for the work and 1 against, with 2 abstentions. Work schedule is set.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U9	The first item is the third reading of Bill 302 of the Income Tax Act, Social Tax Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Kalvi Tough, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U10	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! As we speak here of the bill 302, it is as if ashamed to say that we, the new power union, were in a hurry with this law, in particular, a matter of urgency with changes. Good friends! It was urgent. The reason we were in a hurry was precisely because the new coalition agreement was signed less than a month ago. If we had not made these changes at a rapid pace, we would have heard a different criticism today: they are in power, but they are doing nothing. Good friends! When you look around your colleagues, we see a lot of different specialists here. There are lawyers and school leaders here, but it seems to me that there are most road construction specialists here, who all know how to turn on a roller, how it works and whether it's oiled or not. But a good opposition could also say that this roller could have been much tougher and bigger. I'm not going to remember who, where and when has done and said anything. However, I do recall what we all know that the second reading of the draft was interrupted, that the amendments were lively and that there was protest in the form of a night sitting. It could have all been different. It must be said that a great many amendments by the opposition were taken into account. They had been made regarding the presentation of the new coalition, but there were also those made for the original version of the draft. Good opposition! Has it happened in the past two years that, at such a large stage, amendments have been taken into account, as we have taken into account in this draft from what you have tabled? I'm sorry, but thank you, good opposition, for your good cooperation, even if you don't want to admit it very much. I'm talking a little bit about alcohol duty. The rise in alcohol excise duty in the law opens a glimpse of the future for many years, that is correct. But the idea that you can't change these numbers every year is completely wrong. This can only be said by someone who does not understand or does not want to understand the meaning of excise duty. Good friends! After all, excise duty is the biggest contributor to accessibility, the biggest. If people's incomes are growing faster than forecast, then the planned change and the excise duty must also be increased. That is clear to all of us. If the opposite has happened, then sometimes excise duty must be reduced. The desire to increase the excise duty on lean alcohol more quickly is nothing new, a proposal that has been proposed for years and has been opposed for years. I recall that Siim Kallas was upset that with this increase in alcohol excise we would no longer help Smuule and Valgre. But we know that, the members of the coalition, the makers of these changes, know that. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U11	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U12	The point is, good friends, there will be fewer people in the future whose fate would be that of the same Smuul and Valgrel. A few words about the original version of this bill that was sent here from the government. It aims to promote the health of workers. The Social Democrats have submitted a bill to the Riigikogu six times in the last 13 years, allowing employers to contribute tax-freely to the health of their employees. We have faced a number of rigid attitudes on this issue. For example, it is up to people to promote health, and no one forbids them from doing so on their wages. In addition, exempting companies from the tax system, which affects them, will pay their salary in sports club tickets, etc. Of course, a person can contribute from his or her income to promoting his or her health, and many do. However, in a situation where many families spend most of their income on education, transport, caring for their families, and building their own homes, they are forced to give up their spending on maintaining their health. As a result, the Social Democrats are very happy to vote in favour of this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U13	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Chairman! This bill has been the focus of our attention and of the public in recent weeks, both for formal and substantive reasons. Unfortunately, I have to admit that there has been a rather poor tradition of processing tax changes: a large number of laws are being processed together and quickly. This was the case last summer, and unfortunately this is the case today. The coalition agreement, which was the basis for the changes, was concluded only a month ago, which indeed leads to the rapid pace of processing some of the changes. In a democratic country, political parties represented in Parliament have the right to agree on the formation of a new government, and each government must have the opportunity, within the limits of law, to implement its policies. In the next year, about 1% of the EUR 9.5 billion in the state budget, or EUR 0.1 billion, will be affected by the amendments to this draft. Within the framework of this draft, we want to carry out a tax-free income reform, i.e. exponentially increase the tax-free income of people earning low and average wages. This reform will reduce the tax burden on low and middle earners who are overtaxed in Estonia compared to other countries and who find it difficult to cope and compete. Raising the tax-free income to EUR 500 (up to the average wage in the eye) favours people in work to cope with their salary and should not depend on state subsidies. This measure concerns 86%, i.e. around 500000 people employed. Therefore, we would also like to repeal the substantive provisions on income tax refunds for low-wage earners in the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, so that the low-paid will receive a tax refund for 2016 in 2017 and a new tax reform will be implemented in full from 2018. Increasing the tax-free income reduces the tax burden on low and middle incomes by a higher proportion than reducing the social tax reduction in labour taxes by 0.5%. It is therefore proposed to maintain the social tax rate at the same level as it is now. Thus, a reduction in social tax of 0.5% would be avoided, which, if the law were not amended, would apply from next year. Although the period of notice is short, it makes sense to remove this fall before this change is implemented, as the implementation would lead to an increase in the administrative burden for both operators and operators. This is also what the EVEA referred to in our committee. As a result of the increase in tax-free income, there are still some changes to the Income Tax Act. The threshold for the deduction of the tax-free income from interest on housing loans will be EUR 300 and the exemption for interest on deposits will be abolished. With regard to joint income tax returns, after considering the different options, we came to the conclusion that there would be a joint deduction of costs. Unlike today, when submitting the joint declaration, the tax-free income of each spouse cannot be aggregated, but the new exemption rate of EUR 500 per month exceeds the maximum level of tax-free income that could have been used in the existing regime if both spouses were able to submit the joint declaration. Also due to the deadline, the urgent change is that the VAT rate for accommodation services will be maintained at the same level (9%), leaving aside the planned increase to 14%. As Kalvi has already mentioned above, it is planned to increase the rate of excise duty on beer and cider for soft alcoholic beverages so as to reduce the difference with the excise duty on spirits. The aim is to improve people's health and change their attitudes by reducing alcohol consumption. Secondly, it is important that alcohol does not become cheaper over time, given wage growth. It is clear that we must also take into account the impact of border trade. It is also quite clear that we must monitor the excise policy of our neighbours and the behaviour of consumers. If the measures do not work, there must be courage to review them so that they meet their objectives. It is planned to cancel the increase in excise duty on diesel for 2018. In addition, the rate of excise duty on natural gas is expected to be increased by 2.5 to 5.4% per year, depending on consumption, between 2018 and 2020 as a result of which the final gas price will increase. Given the feedback that the increase in excise duty is problematic, especially for industrial companies, in terms of their competitive position, the government has allowed energy-intensive companies to seek ways of mitigating their excise policy in the first half of the new year. From 1 July 2017, a package on the harmonisation of excise duties on gaseous fuels will be implemented. The EUR 300 family allowance for families with at least three children will also apply from 1 July. This is a great help and allows you to pay for a number of activities. When making changes, we must make sure that we support precisely those families where children are growing. The IRL Group supports these tax changes and calls on others to support them as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U15	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U16	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, So let us repeat once again some of the simple things that have already been said a lot about this bill and which make this bill specifically unacceptable to our party. I will continue to talk about the tax-free income that the previous speaker spoke about, and I would point out that the tax-free income will not increase next year in the way we are trying to make an impression here. All the major benefits that are discussed will remain in 2018. In the same way, the tax increases that have been planned here, in a terrible hurry, with a few hours' notice and in violation of the procedure, have been put before us. Most of them will remain in 2018. Whether it's an increase in alcohol or fuel excise, it's going to be in 2018. It is completely incomprehensible why they need to be pushed through in December 2016, why they cannot be processed normally in the first months of next year. Our party agrees that it is reasonable to cancel the increase in VAT for accommodation establishments. We resisted this rise when it was pushed through here with the last cluster bill. Our party agrees that it makes sense to cut social tax cuts. This was a'major political issue' of one of the former sections of the government, with a low economic impact and a high budgetary impact, which we were not in favour of and would be in favour of rejecting. But we cannot vote in favour of it, because it is all wrapped up in one cluster bill that is being dealt with in a way that is unacceptable to us. This was unacceptable when we fought against the cluster bill with the Centre Party, and it is unacceptable now that the Centre Party is pushing it through. The advantages that the government is promoting to us, I fear, are a great disappointment in society when people see the first salary figures next year. Actually, there's not going to be any discount. However, the withdrawal of one benefit will take effect from next year, i.e. the joint income tax return of the spouses will disappear. I would stress that the spouses of the common income will no longer declare, and now there will be a joint declaration of expenditure. Yes, they can put all the training costs and interest costs on the joint declaration, but there is no longer any more for them to jointly declare the non-taxable part. This means taking EUR 10 million out of the pocket of married people specifically next year, for which nothing is given in return, nothing. So the promises that are made are about the future, but the fee that will be charged will be taken next month. In that sense, we're still being sold here. I am very sorry that the coalition decided to bring the entire tax package to Parliament in this way. I also do not understand that, if there is already an emergency sitting, which prevented the MPs and the Commission from giving a few days of our own rules. We could have calmly held this sitting in the second half of this week or in the last week of the year, and there would have been a great deal of trouble, and there would have been no waste of good will. But it was wasted. I'd say this government managed to spend 100 days in 21 days. We do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U17	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! This bill is now the greatest disappointment caused by the new government. The Free Party Group will also vote against this draft. But I'm in a unique situation right now. While coalition members usually do not speak much here, representatives of the two groups spoke before me today, and I can comment on those statements that do not suffer much criticism. Kalvi Tough came here to say that a worse procedure could have pushed this bill through and that you are still complaining, because the opposition's proposals were even taken into account. Yes, some of the proposals of the Free Party were taken into account, which concerned the original issue of this draft, i.e. mainly health expenditure and a special incentive tax. But you've still sewed a good jacket on this button, not to say coat. This reminds me very much of this situation when the election system in Tallinn was tragedized to the Gender Equality Act in its time. That's not how you do it. All the arguments that justify this are quite simply rebuttable. The very first argument is that it is urgent. Well, how can you be quick about the things that will be implemented from 2018? I remember very well the talks that preceded the creation of the coalition. The Free Party was in contact with the three party presidents, and I very clearly asked them how these changes would be made, and there will not be such a rabbiation that the tax changes agreed in three days will be implemented immediately. At that time the answer was no-no, it requires analysis and requires thinking. We can see that many issues now lack elementary impact analyses. Now the claim that others are doing the same. I have already used this motive at second reading in the middle of the night: you know, when raising children comes the moment when it must be made clear that 'others do too' is a very bad excuse in any situation. But that's all we heard here at last reading, but that's all the government did. Sorry, the Free Party hasn't done this kind of thing! In some ways, the situation is even worse. This 'others are doing too' meant that in 2015 there was a cluster bill from the previous government, but now there are cluster amendments that have been placed on another law. There are also a number of linguistic questions. First of all, progressive income tax, which is just like not progressive income tax, but still is. For some strange reason, we refuse to name things with the right names. The previous speaker pointed out very well here that what we call a joint tax return will remain only a declaration of expenditure. Listen, how is it possible that we in the Riigikogu approve of such a linguistic abracadabra? Priit Onion may have been more direct. He didn't make a comet, he didn't come here to tell us about the button, he immediately started talking about the jacket. He also referred, for example, to excise duties on alcohol when talking about border trade, saying that if the measures did not work, they would have to be reviewed if necessary. As a candidate elected from South Estonia, he should know very well that these measures are not already working. He should know what kind of alcohol buying race Valka is going on. This method of experimentation and error is not a very reasonable way to implement tax changes. Yes, there are elements we can agree with. I am thinking of eliminating the rise in VAT for accommodation establishments and the increase in excise duty on heavy fuel oil and diesel. However, the rise in gas excise duty is a mystery, the effect of which is likely to hit the wallet on a number of levels. I'm asking for more time...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U19	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U20	... only to make the same conclusion again. It is difficult for us to trust such tax changes, which have been made at such a crazy pace, with so little analysis and with such a dirty procedure. Once again, I must say that there are two political parties in this government that have failed to manage their own finances and that it is very difficult to trust them in the management of public finances. I am quite sure that this Priit Onion turned out to be the case if we measure wrong, then we start to measure again in this sense, unfortunately, that we will have to come back here repeatedly and repeatedly to the tax changes that we accept today and their consequences. The Free Party will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U21	On behalf of the Remo Holsmer Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U22	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, lawyers and business organisations choose the best and worst law of the year. The winner of the 2016 worst law competition will be announced, I think, in about ten minutes, when the members of the Group of the IRL, the Socialists and the Centre Party will vote in favour of this draft. No other bill discussed in the Riigikogu this year will be near the title of the worst law in this competition. The yardstick for quality laws is in line with good legislative practice: how thoroughly an analysis of the effects of the draft law has been done, how transparent the procedure has been and to what extent the opinion of stakeholders has been taken into account. In the case of this draft, the coalition has already abandoned these principles in the bud. I will list some of the errors that I, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, saw in this draft proceedings here in the Riigikogu. The original content of the draft, to which I recall, was to exempt the costs incurred by companies for the health of workers from the special preferential tax, which suddenly changed dramatically to amend seven laws. This draft lacked a coordination cycle at government level and an analysis of the impact of the amendments. This is one difference compared to the laws sent by the Government of the Reform Party to the Riigikogu in 2015. These draft amendments to sectoral tax laws were subject to impact analysis. There was no practice like this when the Minister of Finance simply brought amendments to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, saying: please, there are 20 of them here, get to the vote! This is an important difference between the two processes. Similarly, there was no grouping coordination circle and the members of the Riigikogu were not allowed a reasonable time before the second reading to examine and analyse the amendments. Yes, true, the second reading was interrupted, and Kalvi referred to it. It is indeed worth the applause that the law was interrupted and not passed immediately. Otherwise, the car tax would have gone right into it, and now the coalition had a chance to withdraw the car tax from the bill. However, after completing the second reading, the MPs received two working days to make amendments instead of the usual ten working days. I'm still talking about mistakes. The seeming involvement of business organisations in the second reading of the second reading of this insincerity seemed to be far from the point of view. On Monday evening, representatives of the umbrella organisations of entrepreneurs were invited to the Riigikogu and by Wednesday the second reading of the draft was planned in the hall. The Committee on Finance did not plan a separate debate on the substantive changes between Monday evening and Wednesday's second reading. In this regard, both employers and the Chamber of Commerce sent a letter that there was no point in making such a seeming inclusion, better not at all. Perhaps the next time you remember, you should either try to get involved first or not at all. This is also very clear in this draft. The swift adoption of the law here has been justified by the new government, both Kalvi Tõud and the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, who is the chief ideology of these changes. Yes, he did, but how can the new government justify the violations of the law in a smaller way and rush the bill in such a way? These connections and causes have somehow been very cross. Similarly, it is justified to infringe the Tax Organisation Act (this law requires six months between the adoption and entry into force of tax changes) by wishing to introduce a progressive income tax from 2018 which is not a progressive tax but an increase in the tax-free minimum. From this rhetorical side effect of the bill, there seems to be a constant desire to do something, but to name it by another name. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U23	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U24	What are you ashamed of, say it! Yeah, that's progressive income tax. There is nothing to be ashamed of in this policy pursued by the left-wing parties for years. Why pack things up in some other language? It was exactly the same with the car tax: not the 'car tax', but the state fee. Thank God, at least it's out of this bill. Another logical error is that, if, from 1 January next year, social tax is increased with two weeks' notice, it has no relation to the planned tax changes in 2018. I understand the concerns about the sources of cover in realising my promises, but there is one year between the increase in social tax and the changes that will be made in 2018; these are not changes that will be made in the same year. Priit Sibul justified this with the convenience of the operators. When taxes rise, I think this is not a convenient solution for entrepreneurs. I'm gonna put the uniform aside. Apart from the fact that this law will win the election of the 2016 worst law, it will certainly make the Estonian tax system more gradual and complex. Last week, the material sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs also revealed that the tax burden on labour in Estonia is increasing. This draft will increase taxes on labour, increase excise duties on gas and introduce progressive taxes on income, which will certainly not contribute to economic growth. The government has declared economic growth as one of its priorities, but if we add at least three new taxes to the previous one, which the bill does not yet include bank tax, car tax and sugar tax, it is clear that all these changes will certainly not benefit Estonia's competitiveness as a whole. As a result of the above, the Reform Party Group does not support this draft. We have a chance not to pass the worst law of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U25	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, From the bottom of my heart, it was very difficult to choose what to talk about, because of the five speeches we have just heard, there was so much interesting that I would like to comment on. But the rule won't allow it. We all want to be successful and move forward. We want to show that progress is taking place, but we also want, for God's sake, nothing to change. About this way, I will briefly interpret the three speeches that sounded here. Yes, at times such a rigid view has helped one person or another. Take, for example, the same border trade. I remember a very beautiful example of old Sparta when a tsar decided that no banging would ever leave the country again. What did he do? He made iron money, really big, like a normal guy at the time couldn't lift a coin. They were usually kept in the courtyard because it was impossible to roll them into the house. Yeah, after that money didn't leave the country and there was no border trade. But what good was that money? It's all stopped. If you want progress, you have to change one thing or the other. We didn't have a chance to wait. We couldn't let it happen next year. The complaints are, of course, well founded, that is clear, and I understand them. But the question is, what's the price of the other way? I think it would be much harder. In my opinion, the title of this bill would be 'Solidarity'. Everyone has a chance to see some negative side here if they want to. I see the positive that's in there. I understand that increasing the tax-free share is extremely beneficial for my constituents and, I think, for most of the Estonian population. We just have to try everything that belongs to the tax reform. Yeah, when you try something, sometimes something happens that's not very easy to understand. In the 1950s, a cannon was invented in an American airline to check the airglasses. A bird was put in a glass box, a cannon was shot in that box, and then they looked at whether or not the glass could withstand it. At the same time, high-speed trains were made in England, and they wanted to check the glasses. They got this cannon from America, shot it, and the glass broke, even the chair where the train driver should have sat, turned to dust and mash. They wrote to America and asked me how to be now, because this cannon works kind of weird. The Americans looked at the photos that were added and said next time they'd freeze the chicken open. We're using certain methods in the economy now, maybe we just don't see another way, maybe we're so used to them that we don't understand the need to freeze the chicken loose. Let's try and try! It's not just the one who doesn't work that's wrong. There are certain mistakes always and everyone. If the Riigikogu only adopted faultless laws, we would have had nothing to do here many years ago. Our group supports this draft law. This is a new path and it is needed for Estonia and the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U27	I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 302. I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 302. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as a law and 37 against no one has abstained. The Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws has been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U28	Honourable Riigikogu! After applause, our next item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft State Budget Act 303 of 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You see, progress is quite possible, progress is taking place. Okay. The second reading discussion of the draft State Budget Act 303 initiated by the Government of the Republic was held in the Riigikogu's plenary assembly on 16 November. At first two readings, Remo Holsmer was the waitress from whom I have now taken over this profession. I thank him for reading the first two of these remotes! The second reading of the draft was closed, the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 30 November. The Commission prepared the draft for the third reading on 6, 13, 15 and 19 December. The Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to submit the draft for the third reading to the Assembly and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. There were 8 members of the Commission with two votes against and no abstentions. Now I am talking about the amendments. There are 39 amendments to the draft law, 37 of which have been tabled by the political groups of the Riigikogu, some of which coincide with the proposals submitted for the second reading. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. Two amendments were tabled by the Committee on Finance. The first of these is largely composed of specific changes within and between the areas of government of the ministries, in addition to the amendments resulting from the procedure of Bill 302. The wording of the paragraphs of the text was also supplemented. The Commission's first amendment has been drawn up on the basis of new information from ministries and specific explanations have been added to each of the points in the list of amendments. Speaking of the first amendment, I would point out that the revenue side of the budget will increase by EUR 67.85 million. The first proposal also provides for a change resulting from the Coalition Agreement, which provides for an increase in the pay of a kindergarten teacher to the minimum wage of a schoolteacher in order to motivate local authorities. A total of EUR 4 million is foreseen for this purpose. The Government of the Republic Support Fund (educational expenditure) will be increased by EUR 8.6 million in order to increase the teachers' payroll fund. The budget for the Ministry of Education and Research's general education programme (the curriculum and the organisation of studies) will be reduced by EUR 3 million and the budget for the programme of competent and motivated teachers and heads of educational institutions will be increased by EUR 3 million in relation to the increase in teachers' salaries. It provides EUR 11.6 million for wage increases. The budget of the Ministry of Education and Research was allocated an additional EUR 900000 under the Coalition Agreement, including EUR 300000 to finance anti-school bullying activities, EUR 400000 for the Estonian language learning pilot programme in upper secondary school and EUR 200000 for youth labour market measures, youth chess support. The amendment increases the subsidy budget of the Agricultural Registers and Information Office by EUR 22.4 million, of which the transitional national aid is EUR 19.9 million, the breeding aid for pig farmers EUR 2 million and the exceptional adjustment aid by EUR 0.5 million. As a result of the increase in support for a family rich in children from EUR 200 to EUR 300 and the increase in support for a family raising seven and more children from EUR 370 to EUR 400 as from 1 July 2017, the family allowance budget will be increased by EUR 11.4 million. EUR 1 million will be added to the basic budget to finance the cervical cancer vaccine. Due to the subsequent entry into force of the amendments to the Foreign Service Act, on 1 February 2018 instead of 1 January 2017, the budgets of ministries will be reduced by additional funds allocated. In view of the additional revenue resulting from the Coalition Agreement, a total of EUR 10 million will be allocated to the sickness insurance fund. A special-purpose reserve of up to EUR 15 million is also planned for IT developments necessary to implement tax changes. The second amendment of the Committee on Finance increases regional investment and supports projects in the third sector and civil society in line with the proposals put forward by the political groups. Here's a small comment. There was an arithmetical error and it was reviewed by the Commission this morning. There must be an extra page somewhere where that error has now been corrected. Of the 39 proposals, the Committee on Monetary Affairs took full account of two, essentially two and five amendments. The other amendments were not supported by the majority of the Commission, nor were they supported by the Government of the Republic. According to § 120 (5) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, amendments submitted after the completion of the second reading of the draft state budget which are not supported by the Government of the Republic and which have not been taken into account by the leading committee are not to be voted on. Of course, linguistic and technical clarifications have been made in the text of the draft act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U30	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The question concerns both this and, in some respects, the previous draft. With the previous draft, you created a tax base in order to provide cover for the expenditure included in the amendments. The question, however, is this: what do you think is the main objective of tax changes? Are they aimed at influencing the economic environment or creating resources in the state budget to deliver on promises? In other words, do you also consider it right that the coalition took the opportunity to create sources of cover that the opposition could not do by the deadline for submitting amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U32	Thank you. Such a very good broad question. I would say that there were already answers in the question: this, the second and the third, both herring and cake. Depending on what the change is, we can talk about different directions. You did not mention the social direction, for example. The situation of families with children will be improved and the situation of all workers who receive up to an average salary will be 86%. So, yeah, here's the story, Andres, that the coalition has that chance. I'm in my head right now, for example. I have already discussed this morning that during the debate there has been talk about this report drawn up by the Special Committee on State Budget Control on fiscal policy. Right now, I'm thinking about what to do with it. I was Kristjan Kõljala's support, I mean, I had to replace him if he couldn't do anything, but he did all this work all by himself, and I just watched. But this is our cooperation, this is one of the great fine cooperation of our special committee. At the moment, we need to think about, from January onwards, how to bring these ideas that sounded there and on which there is a clear view of the people of the Riigikogu, to this hall. So, yes, the Committee on Monetary Affairs used this instrument that has been given to the coalition to comply with the coalition agreement. I am happy because the goals that have been set are likely to be fulfilled. I'm not happy that such an instrument was needed, but again, I'm not going to talk about a lack of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U33	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is worthwhile to be grateful for the fact that, according to the law, the balance of the Riigikogu budget must not be undermined, only because of this budget balance, otherwise we would probably see a growing minus here. But my question concerns proposal No 1, which, in my opinion, is very characteristic of the budgetary changes that the new government has made. Indeed, a number of tax increases are foreseen here, for a total of more than EUR 67 million. My question is simple. You will raise both labour taxes and consumption taxes. You promised with a big mouth that the new government would contribute to economic growth and make strong changes. How do all these tax increases, without any easing that is not in this budget, contribute to economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U35	Thank you. I've already answered that question a few times. I don't like to say the same thing, so now's the time to fantasize a little bit. For example, I suppose it is not quite the same if I told you that this is the case, that if alcohol gets more expensive, then drink less, then so much more alcoholism will not have to be treated and deal with everything that results from it, fewer accidents, both accidents and accidents at work, productivity will improve, etc. Mr. Clothes, I can do as many exercises as I can here. I just don't understand how this happens. In this Chamber, when it came to the fact that VAT on accommodation facilities remains the same, someone in your group said that, uh, there is no need for it, entrepreneurs are already used to it, they do not need it. But when it comes to some sort of analogous thing that the coalition has offered, it's all wrong. So the use of logic here is very peculiar. I think this bill is good because it will increase people's income in the future without a sharp wage increase. You are certainly aware that analysts are struggling with the fact that the average wage is growing faster than productivity. It is now possible to improve people's well-being and living standards by simply keeping more money in the hands of the entrepreneur, without having to pay extra. That's what they've never talked about. There are many thoughts on this subject. How will growth be supported? He'll back you up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U36	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U37	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! Before the third reading of the draft budget, an amendment increasing expenditure by 15 million was introduced with the coalition's votes. It is explained that the reserve will be equipped with the necessary IT developments to implement the tax changes. We addressed this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but it became confusing what exactly these activities are and how much is to be allocated to the tax administration and how much to the Social Insurance Board for development work. This 15 million, I understand, relates to the previous draft, under which a number of new tax changes will enter into force. But the cost of 15 million tax bureaucracy is such an incredible amount. Can you explain exactly where the money is going? Activities in the budget are usually described by much smaller amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U38	Thank you. I think you know my answer in advance, because we did not get that explanation in the Commission. It was remembered that what is involved in information technology was such a lively process. It is possible that less money will be spent, but it is possible that this amount will not be enough. But the fact that Estonia is 20th in the world in terms of the development of information technology, the fact that we are 28th in the world in terms of the number of computers, sets us specific goals. You see, I personally think that one of the state institutions that work better is the Tax and Customs Board. I'm sure of it. However, I understand that without information technology, he would not be able to do anything. If their specialists put this amount into the budget, either through the Ministry of Finance or otherwise, I personally trust them, and I believe that this amount will go exactly where it is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U39	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U40	Mr President! Honourable waitress! I wasn't satisfied with your answer to that 15 million. That's a lot of money. We have very well-functioning programs and general philosophy we can do everything. But the specific question concerns the pay of kindergarten teachers. If we put 15 million into completing the programme for tax changes, how does the coalition intend to use it for the pay of 4 million kindergarten teachers? What's behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U41	Thank you. It's support. If you read the explanation, you will see that this is support for local governments. Places where I can't see the mechanism are mostly there, but I know Mailis Reps is working on it. I know what experience he has, and I know how well he possesses this material. I think this money is going exactly for the kindergarten pay and it's going to produce a positive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U42	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Can you confirm that EUR 2 million for breeding aid for pig farmers has been negotiated with these representative organisations and that, as such, this point is included in this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U44	Thank you. Somehow I have this feeling that you know it better than I do. It'd be weird if I knew better than you. I sincerely believe that you, as a former minister, know the answer to this question. The Commission does not need to go into such details. I mean, he's got the chance, he can do it, but I don't see the need. There are enough people in the Commission who understand agriculture much more than I do, a cityman. If these questions did not sound in the Commission, then that is the case, there is nothing to be done. Last autumn I was at a meeting with a special committee in a nice place in Estonia where the plague caused a total awful slaughter of pigs. We talked to people who had to do the job. You probably remember the articles that described the pigs dug into the ground after the heat I didn't even know which verb to use here to get out. I think there is certainly a need to give support to this sphere in agriculture, and I hope the Minister for Rural Affairs knows who it should go to. I trust him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U45	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U46	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The Reform Party Group has tabled an amendment to increase funding for women's asylums in the coming year. It is well known that due to the lack of money, in many counties, the budgets for women's support centres will be almost half that this year, and it is obvious that asylum services will no longer be available in many counties. Why didn't you support this proposal? I understand that, in the case of the current coalition, it cannot be said that it is about money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U47	Thank you. It is precisely the money that is at issue. First of all, as far as I can remember from this debate, there has been an increase in funding for asylum in recent years. But it wasn't my place to agree on these questions in the Commission that the Reform Party was able to choose where it would direct the money that was now going for the development of e-residency, the Black Nights Film Festival, Gaudeamus, the Paralympic and somewhere else. I don't know what to say. You could have chosen a second priority in the negotiations, it would have been supported. Secondly, yes, I remember that funding for asylum has been increased by a certain amount in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U48	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U49	Thank you. Good waitress! I regret that the new Government Union did not support our proposals in the regional area, such as light traffic routes or dispersal programmes. Local authorities will also be taken away with an increase in social tax of EUR 3 million. But my question concerns sport. I'm a big sports fan myself, and I'm working on it. This was also the case with the previous government, which decided to organise funding for sport. It was agreed that financing in this area would be increased through the Ministry of Culture and the EOK so that the Riigikogu would no longer have to assist this area in the last round of roofing money. However, we see a great deal of support here for events, support for the acquisition of inventory, etc., which in itself is great. But is this system new now, or is it actually just as confusing as it was in previous years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U50	I'm sorry, but are we talking about financing sports or roofing money? [[Answer from the floor.]] Oh, sports financing. I've been the chairman of a city council for quite a long time. We had 53 sports clubs in the good times, which we were supposed to support. During the bad times that began in 2009, we had to review this programme. At that time, 39 institutions were supported by the city budget, not by sports clubs, but by one sport or another. Since then, I have been talking to a number of ministers on this subject, and I have such an idea that there is something wrong with financing sport. But it's been so long. I understand that if you pay today for one or the other child spending three or four or five hours in the gym instead of running down the streets and doing what the devil knows, it's not spending money, it's saving money. I don't know what to say about top sports. But I still think that the question is undisputed. I do not know whether or not the current coalition can clean up this system, but it is now the same as it has been in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U51	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I was a little amazed by the answer to my last question. We are talking about 67 extra million, and there is no concrete answer for 2 million. Is it true what cattle farmers have asked for? They were deprived of breeding aid. Since pig farmers and their representatives are very closely associated with the Centre Party, is it possible that this 2 million was allocated to them for this particular reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U53	Thank you. At first, the question was, has anyone asked for the money? The first question sounded pretty weird. It was the kind of question I couldn't answer if I knew there was a request... We'll look at the verbatim together later, but that's what it sounded like, and I didn't know how to answer that. I can't imagine the government giving money to someone who hasn't asked for it. I've never seen such a miracle, and I probably never will. Our friends are not only pig farmers, who were few in the time you were in the government. I was looking at the verbs last night. At first reading, someone said that there were 1,500 pig farmers in Estonia in 2010, but now it is good to have 100 left. We have enough friends, and if we were to allocate money to everyone without a request, then, you know, there wouldn't be any funding for any other purpose. Take this as a joke, but of course it's not possible for someone to start throwing money off a plane or a helicopter where they don't expect it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U54	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In order to cover the state budget for 2017, you have planned tax increases, which were very freshly pushed through Parliament, in breach of the rules of procedure and not in keeping with the six-month notice provided for by law. The opposition has warned that all of this is likely to lead to disputes and it must be taken into account that the tax changes imposed in breach of the rules may also be abolished. If it turns out that you have built up the budget essentially on the bluff and later on on on the tax changes to be cancelled, and a large part of the budget is not covered because of this, what will follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U56	Thank you. I don't know what you call a big part. I know most of it's over 50%. We are talking about 68 million of these changes now, and all of this does not even go under this tax reform. Yeah, I'm afraid there's gonna be some argument. I'm not gonna rule it out. If there's anything good, there's always someone who wants to sink it. But we need to wait and see what happens. Right now you believe in one thing and I believe in the other. Whichever one of us is right, only time will tell. With the absolute majority of this budget, everything is fine in terms of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U57	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U58	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I will, however, continue on the subject of women's asylums. The current financing crisis has arisen because last year it was precisely the money that was allocated to them for the money from the roof. But let us be honest, guaranteeing the service of women's support centres is not a regional investment; it is a fixed cost. That is why I consider it important that it is recorded in the state budget as a base cost. Do you consider the provision of women's asylum services to be an investment or a fixed cost in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U59	Speaking of the near future, I would like to think that this is a fixed cost. I have quite often dealt with social problems, although I had more to do with entrepreneurship, culture and education. What violence is in the family, we all know. With you, I want to hope it turns into a fixed cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U60	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U61	Thank you. The new government justified its entry into office by making the economy grow. How does this budget make the economy grow? Does it increase or reduce the tax burden and how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U62	Sorry, I must have missed something from the sniffing. May I repeat the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U63	May I repeat that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U64	The government promised to make the economy grow. How does this budget make the economy grow? Does it increase or reduce the tax burden, and how do you view it to be linked to economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U65	Thank you, dear colleague, I would even say Jürgen. What's the connection? We are now united by the fact that the same minister who told the Chamber here at first reading how this budget will make the economy grow is still the minister today. All of his talk can be read in the first-reading verbatim: investment in infrastructure, financing of large constructions, wage growth, which triggers additional consumption in the internal market, etc. He's got a total of five points there. All this talk also applies nicely to the budget we are adopting today. So exactly as it was on 16 November, this budget works.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U66	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I'm sure you're familiar with the famous poetry series 'as long as your village lives, so do you'. The Estonian Village Movement Kodukant is the largest association that conveys rural values and supports the development of villages, which has a visible, tangible and considerable force and is internationally recognised. The Reform Party Group has proposed an amendment to the budget to allocate EUR 50000 to this movement, which was rejected by the Coalition. What hope do you give to women and men who promote the village movement Kodukant and the lives of Estonian villages?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U68	Thank you. I do not believe that the Reform Party, which has been in the coalition for so long, does not know how these hopes are given. It was about pig farmers, you're talking about another organization that's probably closer to you than pig farmers and breeding. What the hell, tell these people what a politician usually says in a village, that if you pick me back and we win, I'll do everything for you. And then they wait four years. Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U69	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U70	Thank you. I have a question about raising social tax from 1 January 2017. It is planned as a cover for next year's budget, over EUR 40 million. If it's contested and reversed, what happens then? The talk about the need to increase social tax for graduated income tax in 2017 is not just in terms of annual figures. An increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 will apply in 2018, but you want to increase your social tax by 2017 compared to the law. You can't tie these things together. Perhaps once again: if the increase in social tax is contested, what then? As a source of cover, it falls away from the budget. What is the plan for the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U71	Thank you. There were a lot of interesting questions right here. First of all, comment: I'm not extrasensing. If I could tell you what would happen, I probably wouldn't be standing here. That's one thing. Secondly, according to my memory, in the first-reading explanatory memorandum, the economic forecast was the one believed by the previous government and we believe it too, which said that about 0.5% of GDP is expected to increase between 2019 and 2020. It is there with the idea that, if necessary, in 2017 and 2018 a loan can be made, which can be repaid already in 2019 and 2020. Let's just say it's a pretty bad scenario. You probably do not think that the Riigikogu should act in such a way as to make this scenario work. I think we're out here for the same thing. The last part of the question was something interesting. In my opinion, Mr Remo, you are slightly overestimating the role of the chairman of the committee. I will, of course, stand here and answer the questions, but in fact, my functions are well written out in the law: I will organise and organise the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My documents are the documents that the Bureau adopts and sends to the Commission. My goals are shown nowhere in my personal priorities, but in the coalition agreement. So we can't talk about what I'm going to do personally because we're doing everything in a collegial way. I think we've done it, we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it. We hope to cooperate with everyone in this Chamber. So the question was a little overreacted. I myself do not consider the office of chairman of the committee to be so important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U72	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I will be honest with you that your answer to my previous question amazes me quite deeply. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you said that the 68 million cover may not be all right and that it is at least partly linked to a six-month notice package, both in violation of the rules of procedure and in disregard of the law's six-month notice period. 68 million! My question is the same: if any of this money falls away, what will the coalition do? I very much hope that the loan mentioned in reply to the previous questioner for running costs was either a language glitch or a bad joke. Or are you saying that neither the coalition nor the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has a plan to act if such a situation occurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U74	Thank you. Yeah, I don't have a plan. I'm doing my job, I'm not writing plans. There are people who are smarter than me. That's the simple reason. There are people who propose further strategies and tactics, and I agree with them. In fact, I am happy to agree with this coalition agreement that is currently in force. I don't write these plans, and I don't take part in government meetings or coalition council meetings. Maybe it was different in the old days, but it's like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U75	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U76	Thank you. Mr. Stalnukhin! I find your role very difficult to overestimate. You really need to ensure, in the course of the procedure, that the Committee on Monetary Affairs receives all the information, especially in a situation where the budget has changed greatly. When you answered me, you referred to Sven Sester, who once said something in November when I wasn't here. Sven Sester's opinions about the economy are difficult to underestimate. I am, however, asking for this bill on the current state of play. After taxes have been raised and reduced here, will economic development be promoted in the final phase of this budget, or will taxes be raised instead? On 16 November we could talk about reducing labour taxes, research and education costs and such things as incentives for economic development. But these last changes are the ones I want to ask you about. Did they give the economy a boost, as the new government promised, or was it rather a burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U77	Thank you. In the first half you offered me an alternative, I can choose either one or the other. I thought for a long time, which one do I choose? I am telling you that this will boost the economy. I still don't choose this other option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U78	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U79	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will ask you, as rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, essentially the same question that I also asked the Minister for Finance, who, although he considered this matter to be important, did not receive a very substantive answer from him. In fact, according to Eesti Pank's new economic forecast, increasing costs will lead to economic growth, due to the increase in domestic consumption, but in the longer term, the competitiveness of the economy will be undermined. I am asking, knowing what the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U80	Thank you. When the Governor of Eesti Pank came to tell us all this, I was a member of the Commission. I did not have to remember what decision we made, whether we believe that this option is going to follow, or whether we believe in a mandatory alternative. As far as I know, we're taking note. Look, I'm reading some predictions all the time. As a politician, you have to do it, all the time you have to look at them. You look at a prognosis and they tell you that, oh, my God, Brexit is absolutely impossible, which you think they've gone crazy in there or something. Everyone's telling you it's impossible, but it's happening. Or the fact that for almost a year and a half, the world waited to see who would come to Obama. After the pre-votes had taken place and two candidates were announced, everyone said that one hundred percent was Hillary, it is not possible that Trump would be elected. No way! You see, 99% of them write Hillary, Hillary, Hillary, but then Trump comes. Or simple things. The weather forecast says it's gonna be a beautiful sunny weather. Keep taking the umbrella and putting it in the bag! Well, you don't need it, but normally there's 50:50 chance that some rain will come anyway. You know, to be honest, I should be here as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs pretending that I am a superspecialist and expert in economic or financial matters and enjoying all kinds of forecasts. But as a human being, I know to believe these predictions... Well, one believes, the other doesn't believe, one uses, the other doesn't. I know that when the state budget is drawn up, the officials of the Ministry of Finance are based on forecasts. That's enough for me. I don't know how long this is gonna last, but I'm gonna try and explain to you that I'm not gonna speak that bird language. I'm a simple person from the province. I am very interested in specific things relating to the financing of schools and local authorities. Let ministries, chancellors and ministers deal with the projections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U81	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U82	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Commission. As a representative of the Liberal Party, I very much support the inclusion of private money in culture. We have an extraordinary museum in Estonia, namely, the Museum of Occupations Vabamu, in which the private owner has invested a lot of funds. Liberty is a house of freedom that inspires people to uphold and stand up for freedom. The proposal of the Reform Party that the state would support the museum's investments could not find your support this time. What's your opinion when this could happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U83	Thank you. I hope that the questions about the previous object were sincere, the last of this series when these questions are read out and asked about a particular object. I have used this option myself years ago when a question was made to me that I would definitely ask the Prime Minister or someone, but later I have not used it. I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but I thought you were reading it off some paper! There are quite a number of items that the Reform Party wanted to finance but which did not find support. You will be able to ask me 20 more questions on this subject. The previous object was such a heartwarming one, I realized that it was a serious social problem: domestic violence, women in need of asylum, etc. As far as all the other items are concerned, you didn't like it when I said that once, and I wouldn't have wanted to use that option anymore, but I'm telling you this way that if you wanted to support this object, that money would be in the budget, because at the time of the first and second reading, your coalition was still in office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U84	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U85	Good President! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Reform Party proposed to increase the budget of the Riigikogu's external missions. The current security situation in the world requires more intensive external communication and close contact with the rest of the world on economic issues in order to exchange experiences and create links to cooperation. We know that the budget of the Riigikogu's external missions has been in place for years and there is reason to increase it. Just to give an example, the budget for the external missions of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Commission on Nine, is only EUR 6500 per year. It is obvious that this money does not go very far: in a good case, one mission per person in Europe, which is clearly few.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U86	A question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U87	My question to you is this: why did you not support the increase in the budget of the Riigikogu's external missions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U88	Thank you. This is exactly where I could say read the previous answer, but I'm still trying to answer. I had a great experience about a year and a half ago when this setup began to work. One good person who became a member of the Riigikogu, who is not in you or in my group, explained how he was sent to a conference somewhere in Africa. He listened to his 30 performances there on the subject of Israel's disgusting state and what everything should be done in the Middle East to make this problem disappear. There were some regional problems in North Africa in the social and economic fields, etc. He didn't know where he was. But he realized that this is the way to spend money: someone goes somewhere in Brazil to investigate problems, such as apes, I don't know, taming somewhere in the jungles or something. Such parliamentary tourism is, in my opinion, too much. Let's start by checking if all the rides are necessary. If a person isn't used to driving around as much as you want, he really thinks it's weird why money is wasted on it. The committees decide, sometimes the members of the Riigikogu decide, sometimes the board decides, but something could be done in this area. At first, we should look at our tactics on these issues, it should be reviewed. If there is an important question of defence, money is always found. If we need more, let's see, maybe some of the other moves could be canceled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U89	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There is no strong and bold support for research and innovation from this budget. However, you argued that teachers' salaries were going to rise clearly, forcefully and considerably more than was foreseen in the first option of the budget. Would you repeat how much, in particular, teachers' salaries will rise in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U91	Thank you. As far as science is concerned, I would like to remind you that with this budget, which I hope will be adopted today, we are contributing a little above average to science, as I recall from the explanatory memorandum, some 0.9%. Isn't that right? I messed up, all right. I didn't tell you about the wages, there's gonna be a significant rise. I did one arithmetical equation, I just added two numbers, and I gladly informed you that Amendment 1 would give an additional 11.6 million to the teachers' payroll. I've been a teacher myself, and my husband is an active teacher who spends an enormous amount of time in school. Next, these distributions of money begin. It is possible to say how many percent of the salary will rise after the Minister has said his word on what this system should look like, how we calculate it, what opportunities the Ministry will retain and what will be given to local governments. I've been to schools a lot of times with Malik, a lot of places. He knows everything that teachers are not happy with, and I hope that it will also draw some practical conclusions. To tell you that this increase is so many or so many percent this year, I really don't know how. This increase is quite individual and also depends on local government. Such steps, I hope, will achieve that by 2019 the teacher's salary, as agreed in the coalition agreement, will be 120% of the average.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U92	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U93	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm a little impressed by the quite arrogant tone you've been answering today. I think that the issues that opposition members have put forward have been very sincere and very polite. I do not recall that the chairmen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have previously allowed themselves such a tone. But that's just my subjective opinion. I want to congratulate you for saying that you are not a super specialist. Of course, you don't have to be, but I understand that basic knowledge of taxation is that if the tax burden increases, it will have a negative impact on economic growth. If we look at the changes that the government has made in the budget of the previous government, we will see a rise in social tax, an increase in excise duties and a number of other increases. Do you really not see that such large tax increases have a negative impact on the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U94	Thank you. First of all, about the introduction. Dear Mr. Clothes, if I've offended anyone here, I'm sorry! The point is, first of all, that my Estonian is not as good as yours, and maybe I do not feel all the nuances in which language it may be. Secondly, we have a different mentality. Third, in fact, most of the halls don't understand at all if I'm kidding, unfortunately, yes. I've been told that if I'm kidding, I could smile so the others would know I was kidding. Soon I'll have a chance to make fun of the kids. I wonder if that makes sense, but that's what I'm looking forward to for another week. As for the increase in the tax burden, I will paraphrase the Bible: Let the coalition stoned it toss the coalition that did not raise any tax during its working hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U95	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U96	Good Chairman! Good speaker! You have already answered Mr Sulling's question about the budget for external missions. We had a proposal for an amendment. This seems to be one of the most interesting things where attitudes do not actually run along real party boundaries. We discussed this already during the previous government. At the time, there were quite a few people in the Centre Party who also found that there was a need to increase the budget for external missions. When the new government took office, one promise that I really liked was that the budget for external communication would be increased. That is what Prime Minister Ratas said, which has also been said to us by the new Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson, who has said that this is very much needed, because this is a security situation. The Prime Minister also promised that if good proposals came from the opposition, they would be discussed. But it has now been voted down along with other amendments. Then what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U97	Thank you. If Ratas promised (and Mihkelson also promised), he'll do it, sure. I'll talk to him about it. A man has to keep his promise. I understand that this is a very hot wish, and that would solve a lot of problems. I'll meet you in January, and we'll talk about our impressions of how it all went here. I'll definitely write that down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U98	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U99	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The budget for the coming year is a strange story, an unprecedented one. It was born like a patch blanket: great strips have been discovered in order to tragedy there. One likes dotted, the other likes striped, and everyone needs to like it. In this way, the budget has grown, although it has been overly optimistic in the view of the Free Party since the beginning. Colleagues from the Reform Party have been grumpy in the last month when there has been talk of stagnation in the economy. Well, really, it's unfair to talk about a stagnation in the economy when growth is not 0, but it's 1% as a whole. But this is the case according to Eesti Pank's latest forecast. The picture is sad because money to meet all the wonderful wishes we have and to increase the cost of the state budget can still come from a growing economy. The forecast for the coming year will say that growth will be 2.5%. Of course, we would all like to believe that, but unfortunately, all the forecasts in recent years have proved too optimistic. It is difficult to adjust to a very optimistic attitude today. What does the Free Party think is the main problem with this budget? One of the favorite expressions of our perpetuating finance minister is 'a great plan'. However, it is the great plan that would bring Estonia a smart economy, contribute primarily to research and development, encourage the creation of high-paid jobs, send our best brains to the right place to study and bring them back home, increase entrepreneurship and help to win the world-wide booming Talent War, unfortunately we do not see. There's a plan to split the money, but there's no plan to create more wealth. Some are good in this budget. A decisive increase in the tax-free minimum is good; it has been supported by the Free Party. It would have been wiser to increase the rate of income tax. In my opinion, the IRL was holding a hand on it for nothing. It is quite likely that benefits for vulnerable families will return to internal consumption. I am quite pleased that the idea of significantly increasing the income tax-free minimum was increased by the Free Party to the new coalition even before Santa brought us the tools to germinate ideas. It was sad to listen to the main rapporteur, who replied to the question of how the budget still supports economic growth, which was asked several times from the floor, and replied: "Doesn't it support you? " That was not a good answer. It is expensive to change the tax system, as this shows in the 15 million budgets for the development of new IT solutions, which we asked a representative of the ministry in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for which we did not receive a reply. I didn't get that answer in this room today either. It is worth thinking that it would not be like a one-year low-paid tax refund system, which cost 1.3 million IT solutions, and this system was for one-off use. It is worth analysing who and who the new tax system will work against. Lasse Lehis, a member of the board of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, has said and also warned Olari Taal in Saturday's newspaper that they believe that this new tax regime tends to punish the honest middle class who has taken a loan to establish their home, who has so far been favorable to submit a joint tax return and who does not want to or who is unable to make an OÜ. We also like, in this budget, that farmers will be helped more forcefully than in the past and that they will hopefully not soon have to fight unequally with their competitors in the nearest countries. But we have not really understood whether this aid will reach small producers enough, or whether the big ones will paw everything. From an increase in teachers' pay to 120% of the average, we've been talking about boredom here. While, in the meantime, it seemed that we were going to see cancer there next year, the new coalition has commendably found considerable extra money for teachers' pay and will maintain the increase in teachers' pay at least in the same rhythm as wage growth in the private sector. The new coalition does not speak very well, nor did the previous one very much talk about the contraction of the state apparatus, the reduction of public expenditure and the reduction of the number of employees in the public sector. Last year, they talked about it, scared the sparrows off the wire, but after they planted their wings, everyone found a new place. The private sector must not have gained much more than a high-quality workforce from the public sector, although this could be taken from it. It is in the central government that we estimate that too much is being spent. The further away from the central authority, the less money is left for important tasks. And, of course, Carthage must be destroyed, perhaps politicians themselves should set an example by reducing the public funding of political parties. The truth lesson of the new coalition comes in spring when a budget strategy is put together for four years and it becomes clear how the 2018 budget will collapse. Several promises to the coalition treaty, which are in the hands of the Free Party, should then be fulfilled. We look forward to the long plan for financing health care. The internal security development plan awaits completion. The periphery of Estonia needs investment support if they are to be kept alive. We recognise that this budget has improved during the procedure. If the coalition had not been so hasty and had taken some time to think about it, perhaps even a budget that we could gladly support would have been completed. At the moment, however, the student did not have enough time to prepare for the exam, and the coalition has failed in our eyes with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U100	Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U101	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft state budget law for the following year was drafted in the main part by the previous government. On the first reading of the budget on 26 October, Minister Sester stressed three priorities in his presentation: the tax refund for workers on lower salaries, the reduction in social tax and the increase in the overall tax-free income. Together, these three measures would have left EUR 100 million more available to people and businesses, which could have been consumed, saved or invested, as emphasised by the Minister at first reading of the draft budget. Then the government union changed and as a result the budget increased by 67.8 million euros. This is a small change in a large way, but it is a signicant one, since most of it is EUR 41.9 million in the budget as a result of the rise in social tax. In presenting the budget, however, the Minister of Finance promised that the tax burden would not increase, we even heard that the tax burden was declining. The effects of tax changes in the new government union are only revealed in a later and step-by-step manner. Last week, in this Chamber, we saw the Minister's stubborn unwillingness to answer the question about the evolution of the tax burden. It is now finally known that the tax burden will increase to 35% of GDP in 2017 and to 35.8% of GDP in 2018. Estonia's tax burden has never reached this level. According to the Ministry of Finance's autumn economic forecast, the next year's budget will be in structural surplus at 0.2%. In the meantime, the estimates of the European Commission, the Fiscal Council and Eesti Pank have been prepared, according to which the budget is structurally deficient. Instead of working to improve the structural balance of the budget, we heard last week that the new government union was going to change the basic budget law. In particular, the Government Union has completed a plan to start drawing up national budgets with a temporary structural deficit in the future. The scheme is clearly contrary to the current budget law and, in any event, this would be a signicant departure from the principle of balance. You'd think a temporary deviation would be a rule. We also did not hear today what would happen if the entry into force of the cluster bill of tax changes, which has obviously been imposed in violation of the rules, created a legal problem and the source of cover disappeared. One of the most striking changes to the previous budget plan is that the new government association has added EUR 15 million to the expenditure for IT developments needed to implement tax changes. It is clear that this goes mainly to the costs of transforming the Information System of the Tax and Customs Board and the Social Insurance Board and, in turn, to a large part of the reduction of the low-paid tax refund system, to the development of the graduated tax-free minimum and to many other additional bureaucracy costs resulting from tax changes, which have been in force for barely two years. But undoubtedly, the draft budget drawn up by the previous government contains the right things, the right priorities. Let us mention the priority of military defence capabilities: defence costs will increase to 2.19% of GDP. It is clear that the budget contributes to people's livelihoods, improves the security of families with children and does not forget the elderly. Large-scale infrastructure investments will start next year in Tallinn, road construction and construction of different sites in different locations across Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U102	Priority will be given to activities related to administrative reform in the budget. Money to increase pensions, subsidies and other state budget expenditure can only come from a growing economy. Wage growth cannot deviate permanently from the development of key economic indicators and productivity growth. One way to intervene is to reduce the tax burden on companies. The most appropriate measures to this end are a reduction in the social tax rate and an increase in the overall tax-free minimum. Reducing the labour tax burden will help companies to remain competitive, improve their capacity to invest and create new jobs. However, the budget plan, which includes an increase in expenditure by raising the social tax rate, certainly cannot be supported by the Reform Party Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U103	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U104	Mr Helme EKRE on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U105	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's state budget has a number of very sympathetic things for the Conservative People's Party. There are things that were not in the budget during the old government, which we proposed improvements or improvements and which are included in the new version. I particularly mention the increase in agricultural subsidies. There are things that are also included in our programme, such as better funding for municipalities. Of course, no one can oppose the rise in the pay of teachers or rescuers. It's all nice. But we must look at this budget in the context. The context of this budget is the cluster bill that has just been adopted here, which, as if, bears this side of expenditure. This is, in our opinion, exceptionally ill-designed and economically damaging to Estonia. I highly suspect that it will not bring the benefits that are imagined. Ultimately, we cannot be in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U106	Siim Kisler, IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U107	Honourable manager! Honourable Riigikogu! The two main keywords in this debate have clearly been economic growth on the one hand and taxes on the other. We are talking about economic growth, about how much the economy is going to grow in absolute terms. Then we talk about this 1%, and in this context we sometimes fail to notice that our GDP per capita has grown quite well in previous years. This has been caused by the very simple fact that our population has generally fallen in recent years. We need to understand that economic growth is linked to the number of people, and growth in our economy depends on how many people there are in Estonia. These changes that we are going to make and on which we also want growth... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U109	We must bear in mind whether they contribute to the people leaving Estonia or to their staying here, whether they contribute to the people's decision to increase their families, or whether people choose to continue the way they used to. In this context, IRL considers the following year to be important, as it is the first year that people receiving lower wages will receive a share of the income tax or return the total income tax. That's what IRL promised in the election. It is remembered that this election promise produced a great deal of criticism, was ridiculed, a variety of reproachs were made, but we are proud that it will happen now. After all, the point has been that people who receive lower salaries can solve their economic problems in Estonia and should not leave Estonia. When they leave Estonia, economic growth will also slow down. These two things need to be looked at together. Yes, in a year's time, this system will expand, so everyone who gets up to average pay will have a tax exemption of EUR 500, but this step, which is already being taken, is certainly important in this context. As we promised, this change, which will give extra money to people with lower pay, will be done in such a way that the personal income tax rate does not increase. I do not agree with the representative of the Free Party who thought that this rate should be increased. Yes, indeed, four out of six parliamentary parties promised before the elections that this rate would have to increase: the Centre Party - up to 33%, the Social Democrats - up to 29%, and the EKRE and the Free Party - up to 25%. Only two of the six parties considered that the maximum rate should remain at 20%. So the Reform Party and the IRL can rejoice together that this situation is maintained. Ability to feel contented. On the other hand, the number of inhabitants is also linked to the subsidies paid by the state to its citizens and residents. Next year will be a breakthrough here too. In particular, as from 1 July, family benefits will grow in such a way that a qualitatively new situation will arise. Perhaps many do not yet realize that if a family with three children receives an additional EUR 500 per month, a family with four children EUR 600 per month, but, for example, a family with seven children EUR 1000 per month, this is still a new situation. IRL hopes and believes that this will lead us to have more children because families have confidence that they can afford a third child, a fourth child, etc. The fact that there are more children in families also contributes to economic growth. We have to look at these things together. Other important positions in this budget are, in our opinion, certainly that we pay additional support to farmers in order to improve their competitive position and that we allocate additional money to raise teachers' salaries and that their wages reach 120% faster than the average wage in Estonia. We must note that the IRL is, of course, very pleased that there are more than 2% of defence expenditure in this budget, and we are also prepared to welcome our allies here. Of course, we are also pleased that pensions will rise by nearly 5% next year, which is very important for many people to cope with. Finally. The IRL will continue to make sure that the state's finances are in order. Next year's budget is in structural balance, as the law provides, and at the end of next year, our country's finances will also be in good order. So we can calmly support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U110	Kalvi on behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U111	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the budget for the coming year is to make Estonia more united, stronger and economically successful and to reduce inequalities between people and regions. This means better people's and state's performance, entrepreneurial Estonia, where economic development gets out from behind the stump, and all people feel that their work is appreciated. This means smart Estonia, where today's education comes from every school, teachers are motivated and the e-state is accessible to as many as possible. It also means a protected country with strong alliances with NATO and the European Union, but also just as strong internal security. One important keyword in next year's budget is certainly caring. The coalition increases the income of the less-serving and supports families with children. It is families and children with children that are, good friends, the guarantee that, in the long term, we will have growth and a well-functioning and well-educated future generation. To this end, we need to think about the future in particular today. A few years ago, child support was EUR 19 and nobody even believed it was growing. In the last three governments, the Social Democrats have considered this issue to be one of the most important. Under our leadership, child support has grown exponentially, and this growth will continue next year when more attention is paid to helping families and single parents with three or more children. Looking at the new indicators of child poverty recently published by Statistics Estonia, we can be proud of the decline in both the number of children living in relative poverty and the absolute rate of child poverty. This confirms that our steps to improve the well-being of children have been right. We have worked to extend the concept of a family rich in children and to consider a family of three children as a family rich in children. Let it be said that the new allowance for a family rich in children coming into force from 1 July next year means that from 1 July the family will receive an additional allowance of EUR 300 for the third child. This means that the monthly child allowance paid to a family of three children, together with the family allowance, amounts to a total of EUR 500, while the monthly child allowance for a family of seven or more children, together with the family allowance, will amount to a total of EUR 1000. In addition, next year, it can be said that even under social democrats' leadership, single parents' allowance, i.e. a child support fund, provides a monthly allowance for a single parent and recovers debts from non-payers. From 1 September next year, a national programme to support interest activities will also be launched, providing EUR 15 million in additional funding for children's activities. We know that the aim of supporting recreational activities is that every young person, regardless of the size of his or her parents' salary, has the opportunity to participate in sports and recreational activities. In recent years, our agricultural and rural policies have always become an important and passionate topic during the budget debate. The semiotically important term "top-up" has been one of the postulates that should always be included in the budget. Good friends! Top-up, national direct aid... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U112	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U113	... will be EUR 19.9 million next year. But that's not all the money that goes to rural development. The total RDP amounts to 190.2 million, with 123.7 million direct payments coming from the European Union. Whether this top-up, which the Free Party has always wanted in the budget as a postulate, supports small farmers or gives more support to large ones, is not exactly the answer to Andres Ammas here. However, the money distributed according to a relatively uniform formula supports the larger producers in particular. If we had put this money in the amount of the rural development plan, there would have been more opportunities for smaller ones. But it's a decision and a choice that we all have in common. In the agricultural sector, another half a million euros will also be allocated to the emergency aid line and funding will be provided for breeding aid, which has already been discussed here today. Now I'm talking about wages. Clearly, according to the Social Democratic Party, wage levels have been crucial in key areas: cultural workers, social workers, internal security workers, teachers. It is a pleasure to note that next year's budget provides EUR 4 million for local authorities to contribute also to equalising the salaries of small-scale kindergarten teachers granted by the state with teachers' salaries. In summing up, we can say that the Social Democratic Party Group believes that the budget on our tables is a budget worthy of the 21st century. I am very pleased and would like to congratulate the members of the opposition on their sensible and constructive amendments. It must be said that a very important part of the amendments has been taken into account and these proposals have been included in the budget. The Social Democrats will support the adoption of the budget for the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U114	On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Christmas week has come unnoticed, and if it does well, perhaps the ore can overlap with the white snow carpet for Christmas holidays. I have spoken with many colleagues and, in general, everyone has agreed that this has been one of the most stormy end of the year in the recent past of the Riigikogu. The new government, which took office on 23 November, took on a very difficult goal: to find relief for several of Estonia's concerns for the next financial year. In less than a month, the government has been able to find resources for a number of years in the role of orphans. This shows once again how important it is to set priorities and come out of the comfort zone. Estonian farmers have had many very difficult years. Farmers who have every working day on account do not come to the Riigikogu just for fun to show their tractor park or to lay milk bottles on the front of Toompea Castle. The reason for these steps is the agst and concern about Estonia's rural life. When a dozen years ago a barn with a broken and depressed roof could be seen while driving around Estonia, we now see modern and high-tech barn buildings, which unfortunately are empty, because the herd has sold in Poland and production has stopped. In Estonia, the number of dairy cows has decreased by around 10000 and the spread of African swine fever has reduced the number of domestic pigs by more than 50000. The state budget for the following year foresees EUR 19.9 million for the payment of transitional public support to farmers, plus EUR 2 million for the breeding of pig farmers and EUR 0.5 million for the increase of public participation in emergency crisis aid. It is a little sad to note that the process of processing the state budget has shown that, in fact, supporting Estonian agriculture in the last three years has only been behind one political party, because after the coalition, the Free Party and the EKRE Group also considered it important to pay transitional support with their amendments. Thank you. I also consider it a very important and fundamental step towards finding additional resources for the teachers' payroll fund. The Government of the Republic Support Fund (educational expenditure) will be increased by EUR 8.6 million, with almost EUR 7 million of this amount being additional funds. Only if we bring extra money to education will we reach the goal that the average wage of teachers in 2019 will be 120% of the average wage in Estonia. The results of the PISA tests show that teachers are doing an exceptionally good job, and a worthy reward must also be paid. The education system must be viewed as a whole. Although we all recall our first teacher in a good word, her kindergarten teacher plays an important role in the development of the child. Unfortunately, this area has also been lagging behind in recent years. The Coalition Agreement provides for incentives for local authorities to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers to the minimum wage for school teachers. For this purpose, the state budget for the following year will be set at EUR 4 million. Of course, in less than a month, the new coalition has not managed to solve all the problems in this area, but we have recognised the problems and taken the first steps. The third important thing is to support entrepreneurship. Next year, the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments will be no more than 14%. Raising this would have led to a situation where Estonia would have been among the countries in the European Union such as the Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Slovakia and Great Britain in terms of VAT on accommodation establishments, with a higher tax rate on accommodation companies. I am pleased that this will not happen and that the competitiveness of the sector will remain. It would not only have been accommodation facilities and tourism companies, but also trade and the service sector. The truth is that the new coalition will eliminate a half-per cent fall in social tax. However, even the Estonian Taxpayers' Association has not approved this fall, who is of the opinion that the reduction of social tax to such an extent does not have enough effect on employers to create new jobs or carry out structural reforms in the economy. The Union is also in agreement with those companies who find it embarrassing to obtain tax reductions, which would result in an increase in excise duties on fuel and an increase in the VAT rate on accommodation facilities would damage the Estonian economy and worsen the livelihood of many people. A lot has also been said that the failure to lower the rate is in line with legitimate expectations and § 41 of the Tax Administration Act. The Chancellor of Justice compared this in his letter with the increase in VAT that caused many contradictions. He pointed out that, in the event of a change in VAT, retail businesses had to change the prices of goods, but that no reduction in social tax would result in a comparable administrative burden for businesses, so that the adjustment period could be shorter. Let's think about what a half-per cent reduction in the employer's social tax would be: a win of EUR 5.3 per month would have been for an employee with an average salary. It should also be taken into account that the abolition of a reduction in the social tax rate in six months' time would lead to a double burden on economic operators in the restructuring of accounting programmes. As I said at the beginning of the speech, the coalition of the Centre Party, the Sotsi and the IRL has immediately seized the bull and started working. However, this would not have been possible without very good officials. Several departments of the Ministry of Finance have had to survive sleepless nights and make long working days to improve Estonia's life. I particularly highlight, under the leadership of the Tax Policy Department, Lemmi Oro, and the Administration of Customs and Excise Policy Department, Marek Uusküla, who has played a major role in the fact that today we can vote in favour of this state budget. Nor must we forget the people of our own house, the employees of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Tiina, Andrest, Annelit, Heldat and Viviani. With this knowledge that Estonia has such good and strong officials, it is good to go against the Estonian Presidency in the second half of next year. The Centre Party Group strongly supports the adoption of this budget. I believe that everyone who cares about the competitiveness of Estonian rural areas and farmers will do so. For three years, farmers have been waiting for transitional support, and now it is actually coming. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U116	I'm closing the negotiations. 39 amendments have been tabled for the third reading of the draft 303. Let's go through them. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that according to § 120 (5) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, amendments that were not supported by the Government of the Republic and which have not been taken into account by the leading committee cannot be voted in plenary. We shall proceed to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U117	Thank you, Mr President. The Reform Party Group wishes to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U118	Got it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 60 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 34 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Reform Party Group and the Conservative People's Party Group, has been disregarded and is not to be voted on. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Free Party and is not to be voted on today. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Free Party Group and is not to be voted on. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Free Party Group, which has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Group of the Free Party, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 9 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 10 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 11 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 12 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 13 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 14 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 15 is from the Reform Party Group, partly taken into account. Amendment 16 is from the Reform Party Group, partly taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Free Party Group, has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 18 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 19 is from the Free Party Group, partly taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Reform Party Group, partly taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 22 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 23 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Amendment 24 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. Amendment 25 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. Amendment 26 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. Amendment 27 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on today. Amendment 28 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on today. Amendment 29 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. Amendment 30 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. Amendment 31 is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. Amendment 32 is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on today. The 33rd proposal is from the Reform Party Group, the lead committee has neglected to vote today. The 34th amendment is from the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on. Amendment 35 is from the Reform Party Group, part of it has been taken into account. The 36th amendment is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on today. The 37th amendment is from the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on today. Amendment 38 from the Reform Party Group has been disregarded. Amendment 39 is from the Reform Party Group, part of it has been taken into account. Honourable Riigikogu, on the proposal of the commission, I will vote on the draft State Budget Act 303 of 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 303 as a law and 40 against, with no abstentions. The State Budget Act 2017 has been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U119	The fourth item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre' presented by the Committee on the Environment. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U120	Can I have some quiet?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U121	Peace, Reverend Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U122	Do you mind if I start?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U123	It's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft decision entitled 'Revocation of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of new members'. It was launched by the Committee on the Environment on 14 December. On the basis of § 117 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this draft is discussed at a single reading and no amendments can be tabled. So what is the content of the bill? Aivar Kokk, Kalvi Tõvi and Mati Raidma will be recalled from the Council and Rainer Vakra, Kalle Muuli and Meelis Mälberg will be nominated as candidates. On 15 December 2016, the Commission took three decisions. Firstly, it was decided by consensus that Rainer Vakra, member of the Committee on the Environment, would be appointed rapporteur. Secondly, it was proposed that the first reading of the draft be held at the extraordinary plenary session of the Riigikogu convened by the President of the Riigikogu today, 19 December 2016 (this was also decided by consensus). Thirdly, in the Committee on the Environment, a friendly pre-Christmas consensus was reached that the draft should be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U125	Any questions for the waitress? Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! How do you personally view the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the work of certain Soviets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U127	Thank you. I would have been deeply surprised if this question had not come up. So thank you, Mr Kruuse, for asking this question. The Social Democrats have repeatedly expressed this not only in words but also in deeds. We do not consider it right, unless the law does not provide otherwise, exactly as it is in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U128	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U129	Thank you. That was an interesting answer. How, then, do these laws arise, for what reason are wrong things written into the law? Please explain how it is then that we cannot do anything with the laws and that the members of the Riigikogu can continue to get to the councils with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U130	Thank you, dear Jürgen Ligi. I believe that this discussion of how laws come into being could be held here for a long time. Laws arise in this Chamber, in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-19_U131	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Committee on the Environment proposes to put the draft decision to a final vote on 352. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment 352. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as 352 decisions and 5 against, with no abstentions. The decision has been taken. Thank you. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 1.35 p.m.
