ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Honourable Members of the Government! Question Time. Incoming check, please! I do not meet more than 30 members of the Riigikogu in plenary. The members of the government are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Finance Sven Sester. As a result of the large number of key issues, I give everyone an opportunity to have one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! The question is about the Ministry of Finance, which has now acquired the position of super ministry. In the 1990s, the Ministry of Justice had a similar position, but there were some differences. The Ministry of Justice forbade other ministries to do anything rather than order them to do anything. He insisted on legal correctness and certainly did not make any positive plans. But now the Ministry of Finance has started to lead almost the entire country of Estonia through its absolutely unprepared officials. Here's my question. After all, there could be an opportunity before you to go into the history of Estonia as a man who would turn the country's head back on its feet. But, of course, the other option is that you will go into history as a pawn of the Ministry of Finance whose name in the future doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U4	In my view, all the ministries of the Republic of Estonia are superministeries in the service of the Estonian people. They must do their job every day with maximum effort. That one ministry would be better than the other, I don't dare say. If you have any particular reasons why you're saying this, I'd be happy to listen to them. What makes both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice partially different from others is that they both have such horizontal competences, but some ministries still have such competences. In the field of IT, for example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has horizontal competence, and these areas are still to be found. But yes, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice have a lot of horizontal competences. This means that any ministry responsible for its area of affairs will have to.. and this will be the case from the adoption of the Constitution to coordinate its budget issues with the Ministry of Finance, and its drafts will always be coordinated with the Ministry of Justice. The fact that there is an institution in the country that supervises the use of public money, and that we have an institution that monitors that there is a single legal space, in any case, is justified in my view. But there have been no fundamental policy changes in one direction or the other, compared to the 1990s you mentioned. I worked at the Justice Department a little later than you, at the end of those years, and I remember that time quite accurately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U5	George Adams, please, an additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U6	Here's my supplementary question. I'm not going to read you an exhaustive list of all the problems in this format. We are now starting with an administrative reform, the impact assessment of which is probably completely inadequate, until what we heard in this Chamber the day before yesterday is that the Ministry of Finance will decide which museums will be in Estonia in the future. Examples of this kind have, like, a little bit of a build-up. Maybe we could fix it anyway. Otherwise, the situation is the same as in an old Soviet anecdote. One period in the history of the Soviet Union was described as life on a plane: one leads and the rest pukes. We're in a similar situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U7	If administrative reform is what you find to be the reason why the Ministry of Finance has increased its competence, then indeed, during the current government, part of the competence was shifted from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Finance, from the portfolio of the Minister of Regional Affairs to the Ministry of Public Administration. It must be borne in mind here that the Ministry of Finance has all the matters relating to taxation, the budget, etc., within the competence of one minister. Sven Sester is the minister. And other subjects that were previously partly the subjects of the Ministry of the Interior and partly the Ministry of Finance are now under the authority of Minister Arto Aasa. Administrative reform is undoubtedly a major and important undertaking. And it is quite clear that when it is implemented, it must be the one who is actively carrying this process, the very broad involvement. When drawing up the draft administrative reform, the government, under the leadership of Arto Asa, accompanied not only experts, but we involved a number of other people with respect to society through the government committee. This government committee was led by myself, and I can therefore confirm that the committee was not only interested in the opinion of experts, but also in the very broad opinion of local governments. And interestingly, the principles that we agreed on in the Committee on Government were often accepted by some people whose party membership would assume that they are in opposition in the country. It is therefore a pleasure to say that, when we drafted the draft administrative reform, we found a broader consensus than only that of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. I was under the impression that your answer may have been a little lightweight. That's why I'm asking. Do you agree, as offered to you by the author of the question, to go into history as a prime minister who turns Estonia's development back on its feet and goes on in a realistic way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U10	Thank you. I am certainly willing to go into history as a prime minister who will take Estonia forward, but I refuse to accept the definition that Estonia's life is now on its head. I would advise you to look up the report of the Riigikogu last Thursday when we discussed the reform of state governance as a matter of national importance in this Chamber. I suggest you look up the section where attorney-at-law Jüri Raidla is unambiguously saying that the Estonian state does not need overhauls and we should not deny everything that previous governments have done. I said this for the first time when I took office as Prime Minister two years ago, and I am saying this now, that we need not to dismantle everything that has been done in Estonia in 25 years, but, on the contrary, we need to have the wisdom to build on this foundation. I am quite frankly saying that all the governments that we have had it for almost 25 years now have moved Estonia forward. Each one of them has done its best, and it would be extremely inappropriate for me to deny it. It would be extremely inappropriate of me to say that everything that was done before me has been done very wrong. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U12	Kadri Samson's question follows Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U13	Mr Sven Sester, dear Minister of Finance. Last Wednesday, we were together on a Forum show where you came up with the idea of creating a simple business account. As far as you can understand the short format, you mean that this business account does not extend to students, students and pensioners who do additional work, but to those who have one main job and they do additional work but earn less than a thousand euros. I would like you to specify the tax rate you foresee for this income of up to EUR 1000. Is this the current rate of income tax or some other percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U14	Thank you, dear questioner. You give me an opportunity to discuss this with you, and we could consider today's round of questions and answers as the first opening bang for a possible discussion and for ideas. True story, I proposed the possibility that we could think about how to get people into business more actively. I think we should devote more and more attention to the fact that possible bureaucracy does not kill people's arrival in business. We have very few people in business and, at the same time, 90% of the revenue from the state is made up of different tax revenues. I am only at an idea level today, and I am ready to listen to all the parties involved in setting up different questions. I think there's a lot of questions we could do. One is the tax rate you raised. However, we should also discuss whether this measure would extend to future pensions, social security, such as e-residents, health insurance, reporting, etc. My own point is that it could be as simple as possible, it is not possible, on the one hand, to deduct costs if you have these costs, that is the charm of simplicity. You don't have to make any further reports. You will not be able to deduct expenses either. For that, you certainly shouldn't have any other solid work next to the main job, the other job might be next to the main job. As I pointed out in the Foorum, shearing the lawn or babysitting. It's definitely not some harsh rule that you have to have it in the form of extra work. However, the point would be that there would be no reporting and that the State would be able to pay the tax for it at a lower rate. I would see it as a possible social and pension insurance component in people's social insurance. It's my vision. But I think we could discuss that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U15	Thank you, Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U16	It seems to me that the creation of such an account would put considerable pressure on the tax receipts of the Estonian state, as it is now that if a person is working on a minimum wage, he will even pay a minimum wage income tax of 48.9 euros. In addition, he and his employer will pay an unemployment insurance contribution of 10.32 euros. Finally, his salary is also subject to social tax, which is EUR 141.9. Aren't you afraid that if such an entrepreneurial account is created, there will be such a situation that all low-wage earners will be employed using an entrepreneurial account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U17	No, I'm not scared. I'd rather say the other way around. I think that the creation of such an entrepreneurial account, if it ever happens and we have discussed all the bottlenecks, will rather boost the'market entry' of people with a sense of enterprise. I'd rather see the opposite today. If anyone wants to use their neighbor's man to trim the lawn, they want to agree with him and pay for the job, then it is very cumbersome for both parties to carry out this procedure right now. One party who is an "employer" must fill out a bunch of forms to invite a lawn trimmer, and the other one must fill out a bunch of forms to declare it as income on some form of reporting. In such cases, we should certainly set a limit, too, and this could not be some very large reward. I went out to the Forum so it could be 1,000 euros. But that's also the point of discussion, maybe raise it higher. Let us not forget that the government is working on raising the VAT threshold, which is currently EUR 16000, to EUR 25000. Three party chairs said very clearly last year that one of the clear priorities of this government was economic recovery. One possible way of reviving the economy is to increase the VAT threshold to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to cope. Perhaps we should also talk about the level of the business account somewhere at the threshold where the next turnover would already be set at VAT level. These are all points of discussion, but I think that it is rather clearly positive and encourages people to enter the labour market even when it comes to small volumes of work and small financial abuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U18	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U19	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, Recently, you had the idea of imposing on companies that are permanent dividend payers such a regime that they will pay dividends at a somewhat lower rate. Have you put this idea aside now, or can this idea be seen in the near future? This has been on your agenda for a long time. Or do you already have a new idea, a new idea? Perhaps some of these ideas will also reach the budgetary strategy of the country currently under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U20	Good questioner! In fact, we have much more of these ideas, and the whole government is thinking about how to revive the economy. This is one of our highest priorities. In this particular example, I will explain to the audience a little more broadly that this is the distribution of the potential profits of so-called mature companies. Companies that are no longer so rapidly reinvesting their profits in potential new development projects but are interested in withdrawing profits in the form of dividends, say that the withdrawal of profits is perhaps higher for them than in Latvia in this example. In order to stimulate them to withdraw dividends, a system would need to be devised for the percentage to be lower if profits were taken out from year to year. It's being worked on now, it's being analyzed, and we're definitely going to the government office with it in the near future. I think it's a topic to stimulate our mature businesses. At the same time, let us not forget that there must be nothing worse for existing companies that would like to reinvest profits in the future. It is a very important nuance that we do not change the existing income tax system. It's a very clear signal. We'd rather start stimulating. But, of course, this requires a separate debate in the government office, so far it has not happened. Once the analysis is done, I will take the proposal to the office and we will discuss it. I very clearly consider this to be a stimulating stimulus for the economy, and I am ready for discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U22	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U23	Thank you. The certification centre sold the DigiDoc portal, the digital signature service, which is used by our private individuals, companies and public organisations, to a Lithuanian company. This portal records a large number of data and documents. In addition, the state sold to another Lithuanian company AS Andmevara, which is the manager and developer of several information systems, e-state and registers of critical importance for Estonia, including population register. At the same time, it is known that several Russian IT companies with direct links to FSB have been interested in acquiring both the certification centre managing electronic ID and the data assets. The sale of the state's IT companies to foreign companies opens basically access to confidential data and classified documents of the state, private individuals and private companies outside Estonia and to the control of our security authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U24	Please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U25	Question: How has the possible damage to Estonia's security been avoided and it is guaranteed that the data will not come to us from hostile countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U26	First of all, some of the information you read isn't entirely true. In fact, the transfer of a strategically important register to the state, i.e. the population register, from AS Datavara to the IT and development centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (with the exception of SMIT) took place already in early 2016. It is true that today, according to the results of the public auction, a transaction for the sale of data assets was concluded, but this particular register is no longer managed by AS Andmevara. Some systems, however, are managed as a private company. As a private company, he will remain in charge of how long the contracts are valid, such as the information system for spatial planning procedures, the land after-tax information system, the local government council and government information system, as well as the document management software Delta. As a matter of fact, the state needs to consider very carefully which companies must necessarily be state-owned and which services can be provided to the state by the private sector. The lion's share of e-governance solutions has been offered by private companies. Among them are mainly private companies based on Estonian capital, but not only private companies. And so far, our big plus has been that a lot of private companies have been involved in building and developing e-state. The way in which the security of each individual register is ensured is a completely separate issue. The specific developer must certainly not compromise the security of the registry in any way, but there are measures to ensure this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U27	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U28	The following is Krista Aru's question to Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On Monday, the month of heritage protection began. There are many buildings and monuments with cultural value in Estonia, but unfortunately, we are constantly short of money to fix them. How has the Ministry of Culture been responsible for the field, as well as the leading and coordinating body, planned the further organisation and preservation of buildings with cultural value in a situation where we know that external financing is to a large extent coming to an end? I am just thinking about the European Economic Area Manor Schools programme. And how has the Ministry provided for private owners to be paid for their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U30	Thank you for your question. First of all, let me congratulate us all on the beginning of the month of heritage conservation. But as far as cultural heritage and its protection are concerned, it is well known that this is a constitutional task that the state has undertaken. It is therefore the responsibility of all of us, not just of one ministry. Of course, the Ministry of Culture has a very important sub-office for this work, which deals with the protection of cultural heritage every day; it is the National Heritage Board. As regards the main sources of funding through the budget of the Ministry of Culture, one has already referred mainly to a programme of support for private monuments, the money of which is distributed by the National Heritage Board. Perhaps the most painful part of this work is the contribution from the private sector, and that is what we would like to deal with in the near future. The amount to support 5200 building monuments registered in Estonia is 675000 euros this year. Of course, this money is not meant for the state to fix something from scratch to the end, it is intended to support the owners of these sites. The second amount, i.e. EUR 660000, is of the same magnitude for the programme to support the sacred buildings. About 400 temples go under there. And the third important work in recent years has been the implementation of the European Economic Area and Norwegian funded manor schools programme launched in 2001. This amount is approximately EUR 18 million. This Norwegian measure has not actually ended, and I can talk about that later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U31	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answer. The Patarei fortress was recently chosen as one of the seven most endangered cultural monuments in Europe. It is known to be administered by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, but what are the plans of the Ministry of Culture with Patarei sea fortress? The building is large, it certainly takes a lot of money, but it is also very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U33	Thank you! I have no power over State Real Estate AS, unfortunately or fortunately. You have to ask this from another ministry, which your colleague here once described as a delicate super ministry, what exactly are the plans. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture is unable to deal with all of Estonia's real estate and it is the State Real Estate that is looking for a solution to this building today. The problem with the Patarei prison is the same as with most of Estonia's private monuments, the same concern that you have to find a function and use for it. Just something to preserve and keep upright is very complicated and very expensive and the question arises as to whether it is practical if the building does not have a function. It's nice to just keep him up and look at him from time to time and know he's there, but we'll probably never be so rich that we can afford it. Buildings in general must have a function if we want them to survive. They also survive much better when they have a function. Coming back to Norwegian money for a second, then yes, this program was over, but the next measure is planning ♪ I know that the Ministry of Finance is planning it. For us, it would be a priority for this money to continue in the preservation and development of cultural heritage. But what we can agree on, we don't know yet. We should certainly think more about the manor schools, not just the manor schools, because the manor schools are in pretty good shape today. The state of the estates is no longer as critical as it was years ago. But from a broader perspective, there is a much more critical situation in the whole area of private monuments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U34	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Today it is also possible to communicate information about cultural objects and buildings digitally. This is necessary for preventive action, but also for recording the state of play. How many sites have already been digitised? Have the results of digitisation been implemented to introduce Estonia as a tourist country and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U36	I am, however, indebted to the answer here. Unfortunately, I do not have this information in my head, nor is it at hand at the moment, unless one of my colleagues accidentally knows it by heart. But I don't think they can tell either. Therefore, this question cannot be answered specifically. I promise to be specific and to reply in writing. But as far as the potential of cultural heritage is concerned, I thank you for drawing attention to this. Why? In particular, we would like to undertake a comprehensive reform of heritage protection, for which a draft has been drawn up in the Ministry some time ago concerning the law on heritage conservation. We have asked for it to be placed on the agenda for the meeting of the Cabinet in the near future. Its implementation requires additional resources. Most of these additional resources would go to support the owners of the monuments, but also to increase the capacity of the National Heritage Board to assist the owners. We want to take down fears about the fact that all aspects of heritage protection are terribly expensive and be a good partner for owners in this sense and prevent problems that often arise and which sometimes allow the owners to simply break down the cultural heritage they own. But this is certainly a subject that should be discussed in greater depth. We also consider this potential to be very high in terms of economic development, as in general the European Union as a whole, having carried out studies to this effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U37	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U38	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U39	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! My question is Greece. On 8 July last year, Greece submitted a request for financial assistance to the European Stability Mechanism. At the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu on 18 August, the coalition ambassadors supported the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and Greece, the third Greek aid package. In order to improve the situation in Greece, the Memorandum stated, for example, that the reform of the VAT system, as a whole the abolition of exemptions from the tax system, the achievement of a new quality of tax collection and the implementation of reforms to make the pension system sustainable, are essential for achieving fiscal objectives. How do you see Greece meeting its commitments in the Memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U40	Indeed, last summer, much of the heat felt in this Chamber came from the south. The difficult situation in Greece after the referendum was still significant. For me, this was one of the most difficult Council meetings in my experience and since these sessions have been twenty, where I have participated as Prime Minister of Estonia, it shows a lot. Indeed, the issue was the most controversial one last summer. Now, the way in which Greece has complied with the agreements, neither you nor I need to appreciate in any way. To this end, there are the competent institutions of the European Union whose assessment we can rely on. Both in November and December, a report was drawn up on this and, according to these reports, Greece met its objectives in November and December. In November there were 49 targets, in December 13. Among them were a great many reforms that Greece had to undertake. Among other things, there were measures to reduce major tax fraud, a number of privatisations where not only the initiation of the process was required, but still a very detailed action plan. Several of the required laws were adopted very quickly in the Greek Parliament and the opening of the market and other structural reforms that, in the long term, contribute to the Greek economy returning from recession to growth were also launched. But if you ask if Greece has already left the debt crisis behind, it certainly has not. They still have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U41	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U42	Thank you. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, your optimism is not shared by the head of the IMF European division, which confirmed in Washington on Friday that, despite major efforts to improve the tax collection system, tax evasion has increased and tax collection has decreased. Greece will have to repay EUR 650 million to the IMF in June and EUR 2.3 billion to the European Central Bank in July. If there is no agreement by then and Greece will not be able to pay out the next aid loan, it will be impossible for it to comply with these commitments. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U43	First of all, I don't understand what optimism you're talking about. On the contrary, I stressed that Greece has certainly not left the debt crisis behind. I concluded my speech by saying that Greece still has a lot of homework to do. As has been said, we base our assessments on the assessment of the institutions. It is such a European slang, the institutions in this context mean the IMF, the European Central Bank and the European Commission. We can also rely on these three estimates because they go very deep in all the details. The next time the representative of the Estonian Government participates in the hearing of these assessments, it will be tomorrow when Minister of Finance Sven Sester goes to the Ecofin meeting, i.e. the meeting of finance ministers, where these issues will be discussed in detail. I think that we in this Chamber of the Estonian Parliament should not speculate on the scenarios that will happen if Greece does not fulfil one or the other condition. I remember last summer the air from these suspicions was thick and it was said that the eurozone was about to collapse, the Greek economy was about to collapse. I think everyone in this room remembers that. Our role is to work hard to prevent such a collapse. And, in fact, our role is also not to gloat at Greece because, in its time, it took on very large debts to the state. Let this be a warning for living on a wider scale, for all countries, of course. I'm sure we shouldn't go with the gloating. On the contrary, we should keep our fingers crossed for Greece, because if they are doing very badly, it will affect the entire European economy, including us. So we are constructive with them and, if necessary, also solidarity, but of course, showing sufficient rigour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U44	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U45	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! I think no one parades, we're all very worried. But what your government, and indeed the previous government, has helped to do is to increase the debt burden on Greece. We have been involved in burdening the Greeks, and the problem is what Mr Tamm pointed out is that Greece's promises last summer have largely been fulfilled to this day, although many of them had to be fulfilled by the autumn of last year. They're still outstanding, and that's why we're stuck again. I ask the same question that Tarmo Tamm asked: what will happen if Greece still fails to fulfil these promises if no new transfers are made to it? Payment deadlines are in place and, in fact, Greece is in bankruptcy again. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U46	I hope you have as vividly as I remember the apocalyptic statements you made last summer and your partymates did. Today you can appreciate how right you were to make these statements. Of course, it has been difficult for Greece to meet the conditions. No one doubts that. In every situation, it is difficult to implement major reforms, but despite everything, you cannot say that your predictions about Greece and the collapse of the European Union at the time have been almost fulfilled. As regards European unity and the need to help each other in the event of extremely serious crises, we know that our worldviews are diametrically divided. I very well remember your speeches at the time when you said that we do not have to deal with helping Europe's peripheral small countries. It's more or less an exact quote. So let each one see for himself how he copes with his crises. Well, that is one possible approach to European unity. I think you, too, would not want to think about how fatal the rest of Europe might be if the rest of us thought of us, as you think of Greece, that this small country should deal with its own crises. Do we want such a Europe? I don't want to. So on these very fundamental issues of European values, we have certain world-view differences, and this is hardly a secret to anyone in this Chamber or to television viewers in their homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U47	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U48	Now Prime Minister Taavi will ask Rõivas a question, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Finally, the last question: we predicted that Greece would not be able to fulfil its obligations, and that has proved true. So world-view differences aren't much of a concern here. I have a question about the fate of the Church of Narva Alexander. We know Narva is a difficult place for us. The church of Narva Alexander has already been founded as a symbol of Estonianism in this difficult place in its time, and the fate of this church is now in the hands of very strong winds of attraction. I wonder whether the decision of the government not to place the Narva Alexander Church in the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church or, at least for the benefit of Estonia, as a cultural centre is final. I remind you, at the same time, there's...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U50	Question time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U51	Thank you. It is not true that the government has made an irreversible decision on this issue in one way or the other. What I can say about this issue is, of course, regrettable that the congregation's actions led to such high debts. Of course, it is regrettable that we now need to talk about the sale of congregation property. And I agree with you that the Church of Narva Alexander is undoubtedly a symbol for the city of Narva and also for many people. Now, what can the state do about all this? It is a general principle that the state must not intervene directly in all processes, but in my opinion it cannot be definitively ruled out that, if the creditors of the congregation, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church, in short, all parties show initiative and willingness to find a reasonable solution to how this very beautiful sacral building could continue as a cultural object in the future, for example, the state will place it on its shoulders in a certain part. In the past, the state has already laid its shoulders on this building, if I remember correctly, more than EUR 2 million have been invested in renovating this building with the support of the state. I'd say behind the state's readiness...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U52	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U53	Thank you. I was happy to listen to this answer, and I would like to remind you here that the state has also put the restoration of St. John's Church in St. Petersburg and its conversion into the heart of Estonian culture and Estonianism in St. Petersburg. In this, the Estonian state has played a very grateful role and has not exactly cheapened it with money. Can't we see the same thing happening in Narva now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U54	As I said, the state has also supported the renovation of the Narva Alexander Church with money, similar to what has been done in St. John's Church. By the way, even the owner of the St. John's Church in St. Petersburg is not a state as far as I know, but that's not the main thing. The main thing is that in my opinion, the matter is not behind the state if both the creditors and the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church are prepared to jointly seek a solution so that this powerful building can be used in future, for example, for concert activities. In itself, every city the size of Narva needs its own concert hall. It must be said, however, that it is too large for the Lutheran congregation to function, and the archbishop of the EELC has confirmed it. So an alternative function must be found for this sacral building, which would also be dignified and would in no way defile the original meaning of this building. These precedents are that such dignified buildings have been used for concert activities. So basically, I think we could go on with this. But this assumes that all parties are prepared to make certain concessions in their demands, that all parties are prepared to sit at the table and make an agreement. Like I said, it shouldn't stay behind the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U55	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U56	Thanks! Honourable Prime Minister! The church of Narva Alexander is primarily a symbol of Christian culture. At the same time, this sacral structure is one of the few buildings that has survived in Narva since before the last war. It is extremely regrettable that this church, through its sale, is taking an undetermined course of use. Do you, Prime Minister, see the possibility that the state guarantees Alexander's church a fate similar to that of the Church of Tallinn Niguliste? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U57	Indeed, as has been said, it is not possible to support this church today in order to carry out purely religious services. This is not so much my position as that of the congregation and, more generally, the Lutheran Church. So the need to find a dignified alternative exists. And I agree with you in principle that the Church of Niguliste is a fairly good example of how the church building can be used with dignity both for the exhibition of art and, above all, for concerts, without any disregard for the original meaning of the church building. I also believe that the best possible future for the Church of Narva Alexander would be to have large concerts in the future. But all these keys are not in the hands of the state, but require cooperation from the congregation and the Lutheran Church in general, but above all from the creditors. It all depends on their willingness to compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U59	Monika Haukanõmme's question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In Estonia, health insurance tax payers are about the same as people who do not pay this tax. Thus, our health insurance income base with 13% of social tax is in no way sustainable. We all know very well that our health insurance system is well down. If we look at our comparison with the OECD and also with the countries of the European Union, unfortunately, with our respective percentage of GDP, we are the last to come. We were delighted to see that the programme of action of the Government of the Republic states that an analysis of the sustainability of health funding will be carried out and that the relevant proposals will come before the Government of the Republic. This was due to take place by March 2016. My question is: what did the working group reach and what proposals will the government continue to work on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U61	Thank you. The results of this working group will be presented to the government in May. After that, we can certainly come back to this issue in more detail. But speaking of the health insurance budget, since I have had the honour of dealing very closely with this issue, I will make a few points. Firstly, if we look at the financing of health insurance, because incomes have increased very rapidly in Estonia and unemployment has also decreased rapidly, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has increased quite quickly. Over the last three years, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has increased by around 20%, which is certainly a very significant increase. But it is also true that Estonia's share of health expenditure as a percentage of GDP is one of the smallest in Europe and among OECD countries as well. However, this is not due to the small budget of the health insurance fund. If we look behind these numbers, we notice that for a very long time Estonia has had the smallest patient's own contribution to health care. We have deliberately built a healthcare system where, for example, in the case of operations and other treatments, as well as in the case of payment for medicines, the patient's own contribution would be as low as possible. This has been a choice for years, but it must be acknowledged that this option has also driven a large part of the potential alternative sources of funding away from healthcare. So this is definitely something that needs to be discussed. There is one area where the patient's own participation is very high, and this is of course dental care. The government has agreed that we will try to reduce the patient's own participation, including by allowing pensioners to also use prosthetic benefits to treat their teeth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U62	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I guess we'll come back to this after May when the results of the analysis are clear. However, you cannot at all agree that our own contribution is very small or small in comparison with other countries. But that's it. At this point in time, we have quite a number of processes in healthcare. On the one hand, linking more distant hospitals to two major centres, i.e. networking, setting up or bringing family medicine centres to attraction centres. This means that health care actually moves away from people, especially in rural areas, and in many cases remains inaccessible. All the more so because many doctors no longer want to work in the country and we have a huge shortage of hands in this sector. Do you consider this direction reasonable, and what do you intend to do to ensure that life on earth is preserved and that people do not give up living in the land?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U64	Thank you. You're right about a certain part. I need to be a little more specific about my previous answer. I was talking about taking a holding outside of dental care and medication. If, for example, we look at operations, look at the day-to-day and visit fees, then the patient's participation is still very low. However, indeed, in dental care I emphasised this, but I want it to be unambiguously clear that, once again, we have a very high level of ownership. And we have set a goal, as has already been said, to reduce our own contribution. However, the networking of hospitals must not mean that we are reducing the volume of locally supplied services. In my opinion, the Health Insurance Fund has made decisions in this area that I cannot agree with. At the same time, we know that the Health Insurance Fund is not only government-led, the social partners also participated in the whole plan. The Health Insurance Fund is, in a sense, a body independent of the government. In my opinion, the Health Insurance Fund has also made the wrong decisions. I do not consider it appropriate to reduce, for example, the special medical care provided in general hospitals. On the contrary, the original idea of the responsibility of the entire networking, or large centres, is that, with the help of the large centres, special doctors can be found in all general hospitals, i.e. more easily said, in the hospitals of the county centres. I think we should focus on that. It should also focus on issues such as reducing treatment queues, reducing the number of blank visits, etc., with the help of the digital registration office. This, in my opinion, has a much greater positive impact on the ground as well. As far as family medicine centres are concerned, indeed, more than 140 million euros we are planning to invest in them, and hopefully this will help to ensure that family doctors get considerably better working conditions throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U65	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U66	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! As you have pointed out, dental care is a very important area, and there is really a very high level of people's own participation. We know that Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, is currently preparing a new procedure. Can you tell us, based on the government's agenda, when these changes are to be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U67	Thank you. According to the government's action plan, the Minister for Health and Labour must bring this issue before the government in May and it is expected that it will apply from next year. One of the fundamental things that we have agreed on is that we allow pensioners to use prosthetic benefits of just over 255 euros over a period of three years for dental care. And as you rightly mentioned, there is also an adult dentistry package in preparation. As far as I am aware, all these preparations in the Ministry of Social Affairs are now well on schedule, and it is expected that in early summer these proposals can be discussed in order to prepare the necessary legislative changes and to process them in Parliament during the autumn season.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U69	The next question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas will be asked by Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question concerns the implementation of national measures in 2016 to prevent the reduction of the number of dairy cows and pigs in Estonia. This mainly concerns the European Union's recommendation to farmers in crisis to find at least EUR 15000 of national resources. Perhaps the government also has other measures in this area. But it's still very serious right now. 20% of milk producers have ceased their activities and eliminated 10000 dairy cows. According to agricultural specialists, another 10000 dairy cows will be disposed of by the end of the year. With the production of pork, we have reached the point that we are currently producing exactly as much as Estonia consumes, but not more. I'm asking you, how do you do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U71	It should be said that the well-being of Estonian farmers is undoubtedly very important for the government. We have set in motion in the past, and we will probably continue to launch crisis measures in the future, specifically for those sectors which, for various reasons, are experiencing difficulties. During the past year, there was a great deal of talk about the difficulties faced by pig farmers as a result of swine plagues in the stables. Everyone understood what the cause of the crisis was, everyone understood that there was a need to support pig farmers. Perhaps, however, people are missing out on why the dairy sector is in fact experiencing such a severe crisis. It is true that the price of milk has been declining for various reasons, and these fluctuations have been one way and the other way. But I'm just bringing up one fact that people are getting better at why we're even talking about the crisis in dairying. In 2013, before Russia attacked Ukraine, Estonian farmers and businesses sold milk products to Russia for 49 million euros a year. For 49 million euros! So far, it's dropped 1 million. That is certainly not the only reason, but I believe that we all understand that if the market, which could be sold for 48 million, suddenly disappears, it is still a very serious matter. What have we done to alleviate the situation? We have both granted one-off grants and agreed on more permanent schemes, but in addition to subsidies, I would like to stress, however, we also have a responsibility to contribute to finding new markets. Both the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and I personally have visited many places to open up markets for the Estonian dairy sector. China and Japan are undoubtedly the most important examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U72	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U73	The question to be clarified: how are farmers' payments foreseen in the budgetary strategy for the coming year? Is it intended to decrease, increase or remain at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U74	It is still too early to comment on the details of the country's budgetary strategy, as we are only halfway through the process. And the country's budget strategy is just one part of the budget. The final budget will still be made in the autumn when Parliament starts taking decisions. So it's too early to make certain promises right now. But absolutely, the concerns of the dairy sector in taking the budget are in the picture, and the Minister for Rural Affairs has spoken about them to the entire government. Of course, we are also thinking very intensively this year about the possibilities of implementing crisis measures within the budget. Last year, we applied them to a total of 32 to 33 million. They were mainly focused on pig farmers and dairy producers. Unfortunately, there are difficult times in both pig and dairy production. At the same time, it is positive that Estonian cereal cultivation is currently doing very well. In the event of such market fluctuations, the state must be prepared to buffer and contribute a little, so that these American mountains are not so steep for Estonian producers. In the same strategic plan, I stress once again, it is crucial that Estonian ministers, diplomats and other officials are working to find new markets. We know that going to the Oriental markets is a very long and difficult process, but we have taken decisive steps to open up opportunities for the dairy sector there too. I very much hope that this effort will succeed. So far, initial feedback has been positive and encouraging from both entrepreneurs and foreign countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U75	A short question and a short answer. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U76	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You have also spoken about solidarity several times here today. Of course, if, in the interests of solidarity, and also of our own security, we join sanctions against Russia, then it must be taken into account that this will have much more serious consequences for our own producers than, for example, for some other country, even Greece. I have such a simple question. As long as the money has not been given, specifically and quite decent sums, the whole story is that we care and support nothing. When will the government begin to show solidarity with its people and with its producers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U77	It is very interesting that you are raising the issue of solidarity on this particular issue. Thanks to European solidarity, we have been able to contribute nearly EUR 2 billion to Estonian agriculture, which we otherwise would not have. So European solidarity in the context of agriculture is certainly a very strong keyword. However, in addition to this 2 billion, the government has in the past allocated resources to the country's crisis measures, and it is likely that it will be forced to allocate in the future. We basically have the readiness.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U78	Thank you, members of the Government of the Republic! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U79	Honourable Riigikogu! Afternoon, who hasn't seen yet. Let's start the Wednesday hearing. The board expects someone to be willing to submit a draft or an inquiry. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to report an inquiry into death and disappearance cases in the Republic of Estonia to Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. On 2 March, an article was published in Delfi that raised reasoned serious questions about why Estonian law enforcement authorities are studying fiction instead of people's deaths and disappearances. This article referred to two specific examples in respect of which the police and the prosecutor's office have refused to open criminal proceedings on incomprehensible motives. If the person's disappearance over the opening of criminal proceedings can still be settled, there is no room for that in suspicious circumstances in the event of death. In this regard, we are asking a number of questions. How is it possible that the decision not to open criminal proceedings to investigate the death of Hardo Aasmäe was taken even before the results of the forensic medical examination of the body had been established, without, therefore, considering it necessary to find out all the facts? Hardo Aasmäe's obituary was published in Postimees on 31 December 2015 and we have a question about how the Defence Police obtained information about the death of Hardo Aasmäe that was not yet published. And why more attention is paid to the possible criminality of opinions Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U81	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U82	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 20 members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Finance Sven Sester. The question is about our prospects for growth. Last week, the Ministry of Finance published its spring economic forecast, which, as you all know, did not bring any positive news. Compared to last year's forecast, both growth forecasts for 2016 and 2017 were reduced. This year's growth forecast was revised downwards by 0.6% and next year by 0.4%. The fact that last year's economic forecast was lower for reasons beyond our control does not make the situation any better. Growth in the coming years will also depend primarily on foreign countries. It is really difficult to reach the top five countries, or to get to the Nordic countries, with only economic activity dependent on the external environment, but with the same level of prosperity but more flexibility than the present Nordic countries. We noted that along with a shorter economic forecast, a long-term economic forecast for 2060 has also appeared on the website of the Ministry of Finance. There are some very interesting numbers there, too. It's hard to believe that everything is going to go as it has been planned for decades. If that were to happen, Denmark, Sweden, Germany or Finland, for example, should be limited to zero growth, so that we can catch them in the next 20 years. Consequently, we, 20 members of the Riigikogu, have four questions for the Minister of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U83	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Commission has put forward a proposal for a directive aimed at reducing unfair practices in posting workers and ensuring a level playing field for the same work done in the same place. The Committee on European Union Affairs is of the opinion that the proposal runs counter to the principle of subsidiarity, as the proposed changes may undermine the competitiveness of businesses in the provision of services in other EU countries and restrict the free movement of services. We believe that the need for intervention at European Union level is not sufficiently justified and that the proposed measures are not better achieved at Union level due to their scale and effects. In this context, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is a reasoned statement of opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament and the European Commission and to the President of the Council of the European Union on the non-compliance of the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council with the principle of subsidiarity. In summary, the European Commission does not support a move towards one of the fundamental freedoms of the European Union, the free movement of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U85	I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. We'll get them through to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 81 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session, no 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U86	Honourable Riigikogu, before we go any further, I would like to ask you to hold your discussions outside the Chamber. There's too much noise in the hall. Now, let's pick up where we ended up three minutes before 2:00 yesterday. In fact, Bill 186, the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The opening waitress is Kersti Sarapuu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just returned from the Administrative Reform Forum, and I think that the adoption of the same draft law amending § 5 of the Income Tax Act would give a good start to the administrative reform that will happen to us. Our draft aims to improve the capacity of local authorities to perform self-governing tasks and provide services. For this purpose, the proportion of taxable income received by a resident natural person by a local government would be increased to 12,13% by 2019. During the economic crisis, the share of income tax received by municipalities was reduced to 11,4% and had to be a temporary measure. Today, Estonia's economic growth has been positive in the last five years, and this year the Ministry of Finance is forecasting 2% growth. Against this background, the hope of local authorities that the share of income tax received by local authorities will be restored is justified. By ratifying the European Charter for Local Government in 1994, Estonia acknowledged that local government has an indispensable role to play in the welfare of society. Recognising the principles of the Charter, it was confirmed that the Estonian state must secure local authorities with sufficient money, which must comply with the obligations imposed on them by the Constitution and other laws. Local authorities currently do not have enough money to carry out their constitutional and state tasks. Additional funding is needed to build/update kindergartens and schools, repair local roads, pay system for educational and cultural workers, and public transport. This situation is also condemned in the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, which recognises that it is contrary to the Constitution not to issue acts that would: 1) provide for the obligations imposed by law on the local government unit to be self-governing and which state-owned entities; 2) distinguish the funds allocated to local government units to decide and organise local life matters from the funds intended to fulfil public obligations and provide for the financing of the state obligations imposed on local government units by law from the state budget. A clear division of responsibilities assigned to the local authority into self-governing and not yet state-owned. Professor Sulev Mäeltseman's review of the "CLRAE precept by the Government of the Republic during the period 26.10.2010 to 01.09.2011" has estimated that this task is only partially fulfilled. During the analysis carried out on the basis of the instructions of the Ministry of Interior, only a few tasks were found in the four ministries' administration during the summer of 2010, which could be considered as public tasks performed by the municipalities. However, the results of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of the Interior indicate that the conclusions may not be conclusive, as there may still be public tasks carried out by municipalities. These cases are to be approached on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance that the guidelines given by the Supreme Court have been implemented cannot be accepted. In 2003, a fundamental change was introduced in the methodology for calculating the income tax to be allocated to the local government, and the proceeds started to be taken into account no longer as a percentage of the total income received but as a percentage of the taxable income of the natural person. Since 2003, 11.4% of the taxable income of a natural person began to be received by the municipality. From now on, this rate has been increased annually in accordance with the agreements on the functions transferred to the municipality and the budget negotiations. By 2009, the share of income tax received by local authorities rose to 11.93%. On 20 February 2009, the negative supplementary budget for 2009 and the related law amendment were adopted. This reduced the share of income tax allocated to local governments to 11.4%, thereby maximising the impact that the recession already has on the declining and declining fiscal revenues. In addition to the reduction in fiscal revenues due to the economic downturn, the reduction in local living resources of EUR 400 million in 2009 to 2015 due to the decision to cut income tax and the compensatory fund. It is by this amount that there has been less money in cities and municipalities for, for example, kindergartens, schools and street lighting, road repair, youth work and sports activities. The negative additional budget for 2009 also made legal changes to the local government's obligations in order to reduce the pressure on the local government's budget. While the municipality or city government previously had an obligation to provide a kindergarten place for all children between one and seven years of age, § 8 of the 2009 Act amending the additional budget and related laws of the state was amended by § 10 (1) of the Pre-school Children's Institutions Act and imposed an obligation on the municipalities to provide a kindergarten place for all children between half and seven years of age residing in the administrative territory of the municipality or city and whose parents so wish. The Supreme Court's General Assembly's decision finds that although the amendment to the Pre-School Children's Institution Act may allow some municipalities some savings, it is not convincing that the savings as a whole can be as great as the 2009 draft explanatory memorandum to the negative supplementary budget. The obligation to support youth programmes and projects of youth associations operating in the municipality's administrative territory as well as the work of sports organisations was also removed from the obligation of municipalities with the aforementioned legislative amendment. The decision of the Supreme Court's General Assembly states that the minimum mandatory amount of money allocated from local governments to youth work with this legislative amendment did not change in substance. Consequently, § 9 of the 2009 Negative Supplementary Budget Act does not allow local authorities to achieve the savings mentioned in the draft explanatory memorandum. According to the General Assembly, the amendments to the Sport Act introduced by the Supplementary Budget Act do not alter the financial obligations of local authorities when granting grants to sports organisations. Under the arrangements in force before and after 1 April 2009, the amount of these grants depends on the budgetary possibilities and advantages of each municipality. Nor did the amendments to the Sport Act in themselves give rise to the termination of contracts previously concluded with sport organisations. Unfortunately, in reality, support for kindergarten places and youth programmes and sports organisations remains a task for municipalities. In the context of the economic crisis, the state suspended the "Every child's kindergarten place' programme, which has led the municipalities themselves to cope with the creation of kindergarten places, even though the income base has decreased. In 2009, Estonian municipalities in Strasbourg approached the European Congress of Local and Regional Municipalities (CLRAE) in order to obtain an independent position as to whether the reduction of the income of local authorities is compatible with the European Charter of Local Government. The CLRAE delegation then visited Estonia and, as a result of the visit, a report was prepared in which these instructions are still outstanding. In the report, the CRLAE recommended that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe propose to the Estonian government authorities that the laws of the country be amended quickly so that most of the financial resources are directed to the local government level. It is also recommended that measures be taken to ensure a sufficient share of national taxes imposed on local authorities. This draft is the first step towards restoring the income base of local governments. The initiators of the draft consider that, apart from increasing the share of income tax received by the municipalities, the Equalisation Fund and the Road Savings Fund must be restored to pre-crisis levels and the local tax system should be reviewed, as the situation where the share of local taxes in the income base is as good as non-existent is detrimental to the financial autonomy of the municipalities. The proposal is also supported by the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities, which has proposed the same to the Government Committee to draw up a national budget strategy document for the period 2017 to 2020. By 2016, the share of income tax received by local governments has been estimated at EUR 878 million, which is EUR 143.8 million higher than in 2008. However, we must not forget what the purchasing power of the money was in 2008 and what it is now. In addition, given that the income tax received by the local authorities must also compensate for the tax exemption for the land under the municipality and the reduced compensation fund, it is clear that the income tax received by the municipalities and the compensatory fund have actually decreased. In this way, municipalities will be able to offer fewer services than in 2008. The adoption of the draft act will help improve the living environment organised by local authorities and improve people's social livelihoods. The amendment reduces the income tax revenue to the state budget, but the additional cost to the state budget in 2017, 2018 and 2019 can be taken into account in the preparation of the respective national budget for the years. Especially now, when we are on the verge of achieving administrative reform, we can give confidence to all the local government leaders by approving this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U88	There are questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U89	Good manager! Good waitress! Please explain to us why this temporary reduction in income tax to local governments has not been restored to this day. What really is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U90	Thank you, dear questioner. Indeed, when almost all the positions to collect income were restored in the state budget by 2013, the question arises forcefully as to why the income base of local governments has not been restored. Very often this cannot be justified by a lack of money; rather, in my opinion, it is a political decision. The biggest fear is the increase in Tallinn's revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U91	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U92	Thank you. Good colleague! How do you assess the situation that the Estonian state has ratified this Charter 20 years ago, but today no one remembers that it has been signed? Local authorities have been in poverty for about 5 to 6 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U93	Thank you, dear questioner. What I'm saying is, it's easier to ignore things like this. And it is also very pragmatic to look at the amount of state budget money. However, I think it is very regrettable that it is the local authorities that have, as a result, had to accept an unduly weak revenue base. But they all want to develop, help and make their community work. That is really very regrettable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U94	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I just want to ask your opinion about one thing. As far as I have been to committees with my draft laws, it has often been said that this issue should be a matter of local authority competence. For example, it became clear that it is equally a local authority's responsibility to advise housing associations and solve their problems. Doesn't it seem to you that the state is putting various obligations on the shoulders of the local government, but it doesn't involve financing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U96	Thank you, dear questioner. Actually, that's the situation. However, we cannot behave differently as leaders of local governments, because these are our people. We have to solve these problems on the ground, no matter how hard it is. But really, we would expect the state to come to the rescue of certain issues. Let us take a look at how local authorities were able to contribute to road construction and wage increases before 2009 before reducing their income tax, to align the salaries of school teachers with those of drivers and kindergarten teachers, as well as the salaries paid in music and other hobbies, how they were able to find co-financing money for different projects. This money then continued, and business support was given to start-ups or companies wishing to expand, for example, to build infrastructure. Today, we have to admit that there is simply no money. Here I congratulate Mr Parts, who, for example, gave the City of Paide EUR 700000. We made 700 meters of road in downtown Paide. But in 2008, we spent 24 million of our own resources on it and made 11 kilometers of tea. So this is the price difference, we can all see for ourselves that at the moment we can build much less for the same amount of money. It is really premature to talk about the return base of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U97	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U98	Good manager and waitress! I'm gonna ask you about your last answer. You said that's why you can't change the law so that Tallinn gets too big a piece. For example, if the mayor of Tallinn were our good colleague, Valdo Randpere or Juhan Parts or Andres Ammas or Andres Anvelt, sorry! I mean, would that work? And the second question: how many million are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U99	Thank you, my good colleague. First of all, I would like to say that we went on a trip to Pärnu County at the end of last week. We met the people in Sindi, and the same question arose. And to that, the Sindi people said: you know, we are not sorry at all if the city of Tallinn gets a lot of money, but we can do a lot for it, too. But if you answer your question specifically, I believe that such a change would not cause problems if the mayor of Tallinn were either Valdo Randpere or someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U100	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U101	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I'm going to specify the questioner's story, so I think Ammas could be mayor, too. That list shouldn't be so closed up. My question to you is this. As a former mayor, you've certainly been communicating with a lot of parish elders and mayors, regardless of their political background, whether someone belongs to the Reform Party, IRL or somewhere else. For the representatives of the power union, are local problems different from local roads, local revenue bases and those with the same angle as you do not? Do they really hope that because they belong to a political party in a power union, they will get more so-called political money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U102	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, I really communicate with a lot of local government leaders, not only in Järvamaa, but all over Estonia. And I see that everyone's problems are completely the same. However, I have to say that while perhaps there is hope of getting more roofing money or other investment opportunities because of being in a coalition, it still does not build up its entire life. So all the local government leaders, no matter what political party they belong to, consider it very important that the income base of local governments grows.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U103	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U104	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have heard that the government coalition is legislating a draft government reform for about a month and a half. At the same time, they have argued that we are adopting this law, but we are not talking about financing local governments, that we are only going to talk about it this autumn or next autumn or not at all. But right now, it would be the right time to give confidence to the municipalities and also to me, so we would like to support this reform agenda. Without the question of funding being resolved, this reform makes no sense at all. If the government coalition does not support this draft, what do they really support? You've done half the work for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U105	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, it was the financing problem that became a very serious issue in this same administrative reform forum today. After all, we can talk about this beautiful talk about how we become more capable, how we can provide more and better services. Even today, very high-quality services are provided in a large number of municipalities. But we have not solved the three most important problems, which are the same revenue base, road funding and public transport. And if we do not solve them, I fear that this reform will simply not succeed, everything will remain merely such a reform plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U106	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U107	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! What I want to ask is that if Järvamaa, for example, went along with the administrative reform plan that Arto Aas has been very enthusiasticly prepared and embellished with slogans, and the whole of Järvamaa joined into one local government, but we did not concern the redistribution of resources, describe the services, does not show how these services are getting better, does not create free public transport, which has been much talked about, does not lead to the local government's income tax share of 11.93 percentage points, which would be better, apart from the fact that the local authorities receive the annual salary at a time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U108	Perhaps the first year, or the first three years, after this 80 million has gone into distribution, are encouraging, but if we do not, I would like to emphasise once again, the three pillars on which a return base, road funding and public transport could be built upon when joining, I do not see that any services will get better. In Järvamaa, all municipalities provide very good services to their residents. So right now, the motivation is precisely that there will be accession grants and there will be compensation for local government leaders for one year's salary. Therefore, as I confirmed in today's forum, we cannot support this administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U109	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U110	Thank you! This idea is, in itself, complex, I mean, the idea that local governments need more money. I'm sure you do! However, the question is whether it is necessary to measure more in a single table to Tallinn, where money is concentrated to a very significant extent anyway. The concentration is far more than half of Estonia's economic potential and money. Perhaps it would still be more sensible to deal with funding from a slightly different perspective, so that the outlying municipalities outside the main growth centres, the golden circles, could gain more money. Perhaps to add a certain periphery coefficient to this formula and give more money on this basis. Do you think it would be right now, under the label of administrative reform, to give more money to Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U111	Thank you, good questioner! I fully share all your suggestions. I understand that this has also been the case with Minister of State Administration Arto Aas. He, too, wants to further encourage the outlying and perilous municipalities whose revenue base should perhaps be increased by means of a coefficient. Some municipalities still have a rather small income base. These are only welcome suggestions. But I'm not taking the floor here much in Tallinn. I guess he's still a pretty big example for other local governments at the moment of how to act in such a way that there is a revenue base.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U112	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U113	Thank you. Good waitress! You said here that law would solve the problem of the municipal income base. If this bill turns into a law, the Riigikogu will vote in favour and it will be adopted, will all the problems of the local government's income base really be solved? Or is it just that it is still said that there is still little money and that more will be asked? The Centre Party will present the following draft with the aim of increasing the revenue base. Or does the Centre Party consider that this is quite sufficient and that there is no need for more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U114	Thank you, dear colleague. I want to tell you, and I also said in my report that this is our first step. This is only an increase in the percentage of personal income tax received, but we will also come up with the following proposals, both for the Equalisation Fund and for the funding of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U115	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U116	Thank you! Dear waitress, Now, if this really had to be a change, it would be as if the municipal funding had been solved, as you said...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U117	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U118	But this is where your colleague asked about free public transport. Can Järvamaa get free public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U119	Thank you, dear colleague. In fact, I think, of course, every county wants to get free public transport. I think it was the mayor of Pärnu who said this morning that Pärnu is also moving towards free public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U120	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U121	Thank you. Indeed, it is clear that the revenue base of the municipalities must, if not, at least restore it to the level that it was before. Several coalition politicians have also admitted in the cost-benefit discussions that the reform that is actually under way is not going to solve anything. In today's forum, both local government associations and scientists confirmed exactly the same need to increase the revenue base, set up tasks, etc. If this simple unification does not solve these substantive problems, what is the purpose of this reform anyway? Why is it carried out in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U122	Thank you, good questioner! You were out of the forum by the time Professor Mäeltseman put together very nicely that we were dealing with an administrative-territorial reform. In essence, we are now laying down the division of territory between local governments. And actually, I don't see any more, because the content of this administrative reform doesn't exist at the moment. If the three problems that I have already emphasised are not solved, the three foundations of the municipality's revenue base, public transport and road funding will not be established, then the administrative reform will be completely empty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U123	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U124	Thank you. Dear waitress, For me, the key question is whether we will regain confidence in the state and the government. In 2009, I remember this very clearly, because I was then the head of the municipality, and it was said that the income base would be restored as soon as possible. Now the year is 2016 and no grams of this revenue base has been restored. The land tax on the land under home has been lost and the percentage has been added to it, but it has not been corrected from 11.93% to 11.4% after the fall, even though the country has been doing quite well in the meantime, there has been economic growth. It is actually a question of restoring trust. And the other thing is, I'm not worried about Tallinn. There is no money from Tallinn's fine-tuning fund; he also receives money from another municipality. So that can't be the reason. It's possible to figure out another schematic. But the main point is that we have a very different relationship between local government and state. Local authorities in the rest of the world do not have so little income base.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U125	Thank you, good questioner! It was really the beginning of 2009 when I read in the paper that a bill was adopted to reduce the income base of local governments. I didn't believe my eyes, and I thought it couldn't really be that the state was going after the local government's revenue base, because it should be untouchable and sacred. It is also stipulated by all European laws that the budget of the local government and the financial autonomy of the local government are sacred things that must not be taken from the local authorities. Of course, it is quite difficult to restore this trust, and the local authorities really confirm that trust in the state has been lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U126	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Based on the analysis of financial analysts published in Äripäev, which shows that the state spends EUR 500000 on a daily basis from the reserve fund, and so on every day, I ask this question. Where do you think these resources for restoring the revenue base are taken from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U128	Thank you, good questioner! Actually, I think everyone's stuck in political decisions. It's all about good will, setting priorities. And local authorities operating in the places where our people live should be number one among the priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U129	Thank you, Kersti Sarapuu! No further questions. The rapporteur from the Commission is Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U130	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good future Mayor of Tallinn Andres Ammas! Ladies and gentlemen, There is nothing to be done if there is a star combination of the local government in a bill today, then in any case there will also be talk of administrative reform. I'm really trying to stay within 186 frames of the bill. The draft law amending § 5 of the Income Tax Act was discussed by the Finance Committee at its meeting on 11 April. It must be said that this meeting was in relative agreement. It was also agreed that the revenue base of local governments really needs to be increased. It needs to be raised and, as I read from the Government's opinion, the growth of the local government revenue base is forecast to be 4.4% this year. The income base has to grow, and this year's forecast is that the income base of local governments will grow by 4.4%. From this infamous year, when the crocodiles cut the revenue base coefficient down, the income tax to be paid to local governments today has increased by 20%, or 144 million. And this has happened because the country has taken a series of steps. The start of the employees' register resulted in an estimated EUR 12 million for the country, of which 70% on average is the share of local governments. So the state has implemented various measures, better collected tax money and increased this revenue base. The Government of the Republic also gave its opinion on the draft law. This opinion was presented to us by Sulev Liivik in the Commission. And I have to say that when Sulev Liivik had made this presentation, Tarmo Tamm in the Commission proposed that we should not discuss its content, that is clear to everyone and that the opinions of the various parties will not change anyway. And this proposal was adopted by consensus, i.e. we did not have much discussion of the government's opinion there and went to the votes. The results of the vote were as follows: to place the draft on the agenda by Tuesday, 19 April (this was by consensus, but yes, the 19th date has now become the 20th date), and the second decision was to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (by 6, 3 against and 0 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U131	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Oh, wonder, oh wonder, I've read the coalition contract and your election platform. And it says that one of your priorities is to restore the local government's income base, i.e. to raise money there. Have you forgotten this now, or have you deleted it from your contract, or what about it? How do you think the local government should get its income base back?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U133	Thank you, my good colleague. You have read this document very accurately, and you have understood it quite correctly. As I said, the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board have better collected tax money, and the revenue base of local governments is greater. And what is there to deny, both in the RES discussions and in I say this word now, when discussing the issues of administrative reform, is really about how the regulation of the Equalisation Fund can be changed. As the Equalisation Fund reduces the difference in the income base of local governments, it helps to increase the income base of the less profitable municipalities, i.e. to those which have a higher income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U134	The story is now that Tarmo Tamm, an experienced member of the Riigikogu, knows that he has two questions. Your name was not mentioned in the negotiations, but in the report. Paragraph 70 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act applies to negotiations. If you're lucky in the negotiations, it's easier. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You and your coalition associates have repeatedly talked about the fact that the municipal income base is bigger than it was. The receipts have grown. But, in fact, this is a completely empty demagoguery because the reduction in the rate of income tax has led to a substantial loss of money. And it has grown simply because our people's wages and other incomes have increased. Those are two completely different things you don't want to commit. If, at the moment, the percentage of income tax would be higher, as it was, we would be talking about a whole different amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U136	Thank you. I guess we've learned this demagogue from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U137	I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U138	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Riigikogu Centre Party brings to you for the first reading a draft to increase the income base of local governments. The aim of this draft is to increase the rate of income tax due to local governments to 11,8% in 2017, to 12,0% in 2018 and to 12,13% in 2019. The draft proposed is the first step in increasing the income base of local governments. Why are we doing this? For years, the main objective of the negotiations between the Municipal Associations' Cooperation Council and the Government Committee, which I have participated in for nearly ten years, has been to provide local authorities with a stable income base based on our own laws and the European Charter for Local Authorities. The revenue generated by local governments' budgets must provide the necessary resources to carry out the tasks assigned to local governments by law and enable the necessary investments to be made in the development of local life. Municipal development must be sustainable. How have the responsibilities and funding of local governments developed over the last few decades? After the adoption of the Constitution and the transition to a one-tiered municipality, the functions performed by the municipalities, as well as the system of funding, changed. They tried to make it easier. The costs of the tasks carried out by the rural governments were taken as a basis and distributed between the municipalities through the Income Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Equalisation Fund. The fact that the costs of the tasks carried out by many rural governments were covered centrally from the state budget was not taken into account, and these costs were excluded from the calculation of the municipal revenues. For example, there is road safety. Before, it was a road repair that was done only from the state budget. The costs of repairing and building the property of the state, the rural governments and the institutions now in the administration of the municipalities were previously covered directly from the state budget. The children's school trip was free of charge because the bus companies were state-owned and were adequately subsidised by the state budget. These expenditures were also not included in the budgets of rural governments. Now both ownership and the financial system changed. It is therefore interesting to listen to the views of ministerial officials on the financing of tasks. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications claims each year that it allocates additional resources from the state budget to local authorities for road maintenance, even though they are the only means for local authorities to do so. This task is carried out by municipalities at the expense of other tasks. If we bring this to the attention of the Ministry, section 6 of the KOKS refers to where all local government functions are counted. It doesn't make sense that the task is one thing, the funding is another. The Local Government Organisation Act does not allocate any cents of money to the municipality. The allocation of funds takes place on the basis of the Income Tax Act, Land Tax Act, State Budget Act and Municipal and Urban Budget Act, and the documents underlying the calculation have not yet been found by anyone. That is why it is easy for public officials to say that you have the resources on the revenue base for this task, because nobody has documents to prove otherwise. But there isn't enough money for all the tasks on the income base. Thus, from the mid-1990s onwards, we argue about financing the tasks of the central government and the local government. Over the years, many tasks have been added to the local governments, and they are largely unfunded. Just a few examples. The construction and planning law was adopted, which was initially a law. The old "generational plans" of the municipalities were drawn up in the architectural departments of the county executive committees, but it is necessary to order the general plan from a competent organisation that costs a lot. This is also accompanied by an assessment of the environmental impacts of various plans and projects, which are enormously expensive. However, the Ministry of Finance's calculations will immediately be added here, confirming that local government revenues are growing faster. And indeed, even now, we were able to give an example that 400 million were missing, but more than 143 million more have been received today. However, there is still a deficit in the meantime. The Government of the Republic wishes to carry out administrative-territorial reform of local governments, linked to the elections of municipal and urban councils in 2017. In this context, we expect that the State's budget strategy for the years 2017 to 2020 will necessarily also reflect the themes of strengthening the revenue base of local government budgets and increasing the share of local governments. With regard to the preparation of the State Budget Strategy 2017 to 2020 we will continue to repeat that the possibilities of local governments' budgets are not in line with the tasks assigned to them. Over the last ten years, local government revenue has increased by 76.9%, or around 654 million euros, but the state budget has increased by 163.4%, or 4.8 billion euros. The country's clean budget has grown 2.4 times, the local governments' budget 1.77 times. In this context, it is also impossible to miss the Equalisation Fund to harmonise local budgets, which would require an increase of at least 20 million. Allocations for the storage of local roads must increase from 29 million to 45,5 million in 2020. Local roads make up 40.6% of Estonian roads. In the pre-crisis 2008 EUR 40.5 million was allocated from the state budget for local road storage, which has been drastically reduced in the following years. And let us look at the price of repairing roads! It would be obvious that financing for the maintenance of local roads would be proportionate to the volumes planned in the road management plan for public roads. However, I come back to the income tax received by the municipalities. Until 2009, municipalities and cities received 11.93 per cent of personal income tax from the state, but it was cut off by 0.53%, which is 50 to 55 million a year. The Government of the Republic has now taken a course to restore the pre-crisis situation in most areas of life. The last example is the new wage system for civil servants. Regrettably, a decision at central level has not been taken so far to remedy the exceptional depreciation of the local governments' income base. As a result of the political will to extend the credit limits of local governments, it is not appropriate to keep the income base at a constantly low level. This will not allow municipalities to develop or use the resources of the European Union's support funds. The central government must finally decide who, and for what means, organises the preservation and development of national culture, organises regional events and the leisure activities of young people and sports activities. So far, there is a situation where this is an area not covered by legislation. There are no funds in anyone's budget, and the costs are still covered by the local government budget at the expense of the other services provided. This situation must end. Local authorities want to be equal partners to the central government, promoters of life in the country, not troublesome money asking authorities and in vain critics of the state's activities. This is a matter of purely political agreement. If today, figuratively speaking, we find 40 million with a fingertip to support our airline, then it's purely a matter of will...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U139	Thank you, Kersti Sarapuu! Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U141	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U142	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I have found so much sympathetic mention in this earlier discussion that I feel obliged to speak on this matter. As colleagues have already said, similar drafts have been discussed several times in this Chamber, and perhaps this debate will not be the last one. There is one such ritual dance on the issue of the income base of local governments. Before the elections, the majority of political parties, if not all political parties, promise to increase the income base of local governments. If money is really going to be counted, it will be found that this year it is still not possible to do so, and this is how it will be year after year. The Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments protest every year about the government's budget plan. The protest will be heard, nothing much will happen. Nor do these representative organisations express their dissatisfaction in a very loud voice. The government says it's not possible. In recent times, the government also says that there is no need to increase the revenue base, because European money already reaches the municipalities enough and compensates for the missing part. They come here with a bill for the hall, the coalition votes it down, and at some point everything starts all over again. However, in our view, it is noteworthy that the possibilities of local governments' budgets are increasingly lagging behind the possibilities of the state budget. This is not my fiction; we saw these charts in this very hall a few weeks ago when the Mayor of Tartu, Urmas Klaas, presented here during the debate on education policy. Municipalities, on the other hand, could participate in the progress of the state, that would be just. In preparing for today's item on the agenda, I refreshed my memory, Googled and found a long article by my esteemed colleague, Peeter Ernits, on the Maaleht, which I think had been written two or three years ago. And in that article there was a nice quote from Jüri Võigempast, CEO of the Cities Association. The mighty says that during the crisis, our heads were flooded, the crisis has long been over, but our heads are still being held underwater. And indeed, the municipalities have not been allowed to water their noses to this day. As a basic answer, I have heard from coalition politicians over and over again that a gradual increase in the revenue base of local governments, as proposed in the current draft, does not really fulfil the objective of reducing the inequality of local governments. It does not reduce peripheralisation, because it can be better done through the Equalisation Fund. However, we know very well that there are not enough resources there, too. I think this guy's talk from coalition politicians is a bit of a Pharisee. When there is a shortage of money for some of the necessary things, it is said to be local authorities, municipalities are independent, the state does not intervene. It is loved to repeat that municipalities should be more enthusiastic and braver in creating conditions that are more favourable to entrepreneurship. But they want to keep the wallet in their hands as much as possible so that they can share money with their fingertips, regulate the use of this money very accurately and use it to keep the municipalities nicely on the edge of the central government. Yeah, it's politics, but it's not good and smart politics. Only a sovereign decision-maker can be held responsible for his duties and make effective use of resources, emphasised Urmas Klaas from this remote control. At present, the municipality is a cashier of the central authority, if you use another shape that hits Glass here. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U143	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U144	This problem is both a crisis of mutual trust and a crisis of communication. We have no trust between the central authority and the municipalities. This statement that European money will come to the municipalities so much that it will compensate for the loss of the entire revenue base should be demonstrated by the government and communicate its claims. I don't think that's quite right now for the local governments. It is difficult for us to assess whether the government is telling the truth. I have been a member of the Haapsalu City Council for 20 years and I remember well how new council members, elected for the first time, will work there after the elections. And then they'll soon discover that ups, we don't really have much power to decide on the budget, because the vast majority of municipal revenue depends on decisions taken at national level. And if that's the case in Haapsalu, I suspect the smaller the municipality, the worse the story really is. In fact, this issue would require a serious debate, without irony and without superiority. The same problem was raised yesterday at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. There was a very meaningful debate, a number of options were discussed. The so-called Robin Hood system in Scandinavian countries was highlighted. My colleague Andres Metsoja asked the table whether the income tax received must be the same across the country in order to reduce marginalisation, whether it must be the same in Tallinn and everywhere else, or whether there are opportunities to play here. So there are quite a few points of discussion here. A colleague said that he did not link the current draft to the pending administrative reform law. I would do this, however, because it is regrettable that the draft law on administrative reform does not talk at all about the development or change of the municipal funding system. I think that the amendments must bring this issue to the table. The Free Party has tabled amendments, including a proposal to restore the pre-crisis situation in the financing of local governments. I think that it is not dignified of the Government of the Republic to dodge this issue and simply to deal with drawing boundaries. Municipalities' questions should be brought to public representatives in a comprehensive manner. In our group's view, this issue deserves serious debate; this draft must under no circumstances be voted out of the procedure merely because the coalition considers its authors to be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U145	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Finance is to reject the draft 186 at first reading, but it will only happen if we vote this way. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, the draft law amending § 5 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party is currently being read first and we have come to the conclusion that I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 186 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 34 against and no abstentions. Draft 186 fell out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U146	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Insurance Act creates a legal basis to merge the two registers. These are the Agency's Register of Medicinal Products and the code centre administered by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Code Centre was established years ago as a basic register of digital prescription for coding of packaging of medicinal products and for the disclosure of information relating to the compensation of medicinal products. The register contains information on all medicinal products marketed in Estonia, whether authorised or not, as well as the packages of special foods and medical devices to be compensated by the health insurance fund. The purpose of the Register of Medicinal Products has been to disclose information on marketing authorisations for medicinal products. This means, in practice, that the data contained in these two registers overlap to a very large extent. Technical preparations to connect these two registers have been made and today's approval decision will allow us to stop the duplication of information and save taxpayers' money. In essence, the objectives of the code centre and the Register of Medicinal Products are not changed. The new Register of Medicinal Products serves the same purpose as the Register of Medicinal Products and the Code Centre so far. Only the fact that additional information on the import of medicinal products is collected in the new Register of Medicinal Products, allowing the actual availability of authorised medicinal products in Estonia to be assessed, is there any indication of the maximum price and price fixing for medicinal products. In summary, we can say that the content of the amendments essentially consists of only three things. The users of both registers will receive all the information they have received from one registry in the future. Secondly, one new informative data field is added to the existing data sets, from which the user will see whether the medicine has ever been introduced into Estonia. And thirdly, the country will have to maintain and develop only one register instead of the two existing registers. A new, modern and user-friendly solution will be introduced instead of a technically outdated pharmaceutical register, which will facilitate the work of both doctors and pharmacists and will be a valuable source of information for patients as well. The Social Democrats support the adoption of the Bill as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U148	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 154 and we are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Medicines and Health Insurance initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U149	We are going on: today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is to have 184 final votes on the draft and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 184. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 1 against, 4 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U150	Today's fourth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 192, and we will go to it. I am voting on the draft Act 192 amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, against 1, with 4 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U151	Today's fifth item is the second reading of draft Act 191 amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mark Soosaare, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs sent a draft 191 to the second reading of today's sitting on punishment for making counterfeit money and the surveillance activities to be extended. Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, presented us at the meeting of the Commission. It was not a very heated debate, as most of the members of the Commission realise that the Council of Europe directive must be transposed and Estonia does not want to be among the latter. The deadline is set for the end of May. The Centre Party raised the question of whether it would really be worth expanding the surveillance directory. But the reasons for the extension are quite clear and unambiguous. In the Mediterranean countries, pressure on counterfeit currency has increased and mobile counterfeiting factories can also be rolled northwards within the European Union. If, at one point, the Estonian territory is also minted, printed and who knows how to reproduce money that does not have a value for money, then our laws should be prepared to prevent all of this. So, our committee decided, with 7 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 0 abstentions, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, if we should finish the second reading today, to send the draft to third reading already by the 11th of May in this very dark blue room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U153	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U154	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm coming back to expanding the surveillance directory. Right now, it's actually like they're shooting a sparrow with a cannon. Some of the bills have been forged and we are about to open up the possibility of expanding surveillance in Estonia as well. Is this really an adequate solution? There are other small, almost non-existent violations of the same kind, so you could open up a trace to detect them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U155	Thank you, good questioner! I agree with you that legislation must generally follow practice, but there are areas where legislation should go before practice. In some ways, legislation can also prevent and prevent crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U156	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When you read the draft explanatory memorandum carefully, and precisely that part of the impact analysis, you know that it is clearly stated that there is no forecast for the expansion of this type of crime at the moment. In this case, is it really necessary to expand this surveillance activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U158	Good questioner, you're asking for my personal opinion. The answer is yes. I've been to Sicily near Etna several times, and I was there once while a judge was shot in a small town in Sicily. I know the environment in which people live and how free movement in Europe allows crime to infiltrate our country from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U159	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U160	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The requirements relating to the protection of the European single currency, the euro, concern all Member States and their harmonisation and adaptation, are an understandable step for probably everyone in this Chamber. No one will argue that the single currency must be protected in the same way and counterfeiting prevented as any other currency. To this end, the draft will transpose a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending both the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Credit institutions are already obliged to withdraw from circulation all euro banknotes and euro coins which are suspected of being counterfeit, but intelligibly the same requirements must apply to all institutions that handle cash. It is also appropriate to extend the circulation of subjects, to provide for the control and use of the banknote and coin control equipment, as well as to strengthen the penalty rates. However, when discussing this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I disagreed with the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which would allow tracing operations to be applied in the case of counterfeiting. Reading the draft explanatory memorandum to the draft's analysis of the expected impact, it turns out that these crimes are relatively rarely committed in Estonia. In 2013, the sentenced court settlement entered into force on the basis of the section of the bank card or other means of payment forgery in two criminal cases, in five cases in 2014. As fewer and fewer businesses and citizens are exposed to cash in their daily settlements, there is no forecast for this type of crime. The overall assessment of the significance of the impact on this draft was of little relevance. The explanatory memorandum summarises the impact by saying that there is therefore no basis in Estonia to expect the mass circulation of counterfeit money in the near future and to increase the number of counterfeits with an international dimension. It seems that in this case the sparrows are really going to start shooting cannons. Article 9 of the directive on which the amendment is based does not provide for specific measures to be taken by the Member State. Article 9 of the Directive, entitled 'Inquiry tools', reads as follows: 'Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that effective investigative tools, such as those used for organised crime or other serious crime, are available to persons, entities or services responsible for investigating or prosecuting the offences referred to in Articles 3 and 4. ' In order to combat organised crime, the legislator has already created opportunities in the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's no point in duplicating it. Surveillance activities constitute a serious violation of the fundamental right of a person and should not be carried out too easily or automatically. The list of offences that allow surveillance activities in the relevant section of the Penal Code grows like bread dough on yeast. Is it really necessary to carry out surveillance activities to detect a crime involving the production of cash by means of a duplicating machine? Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U161	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U162	Thank you. More serious cases of counterfeiting will still qualify as organised crime and opportunities have been created in the Code of Criminal Procedure to deal with them. We are in a situation where surveillance operations will soon be applied to road crossings or busbunnys in the wrong place. As a result of the legislation, people's fundamental rights should not be subject to continuous concessions, and the legislator should carry out a thorough review which allows and does not allow surveillance activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U163	Thank you. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Sometimes it's true that you can't keep quiet. A few months ago, while I was in The Hague, the administrative capital of the Netherlands, I passed by the new headquarters of Interpol. The white skyscraper rises out into the blue sky, and I wonder whether Europe needs such a cost. But it is probably because crime is international in very many cases, cross-border, and if the fight against it is not well coordinated, it is very difficult to prevent it. We also know quite a lot of cases of terrorism that have been perpetrated by criminal organisations even better managed than countries. And when counterfeiters discover that there are less stringent rules in Estonia than in the rest of Europe, the more we attract them here. And another reason why I pressed the call button in. I have a question. How are we going to violate the fundamental rights of people in the Republic of Estonia when we make counterfeit money? Is it something that anyone could try and see how much punishment gets, or would it be better to prevent it anyway? Moreover, in the course of this whole procedure, I have come up with a question as to why one party so cares about this question. Perhaps it would be better to show where these machines are or where they are to be delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U165	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 191. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U166	Let's keep going. Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft Act 190 on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I present to you draft law 190, initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is called the Act on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Convention on forced labour. Its purpose is to ratify the Protocol to the said Convention. The Forced Labour Convention is one of the eight base conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which form the main international labour standards. The Convention was already adopted on 28 June 1930 and ratified by Estonia on 7 February 1996. In addition to Estonia, 178 ILO Member States have ratified the Convention. The Protocol complements the ILO Convention on Forced Labour with a view to preventing forced labour and strengthening the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. According to the latest ILO data, 20.9 million people in the world are still forced to do this kind of work. The context and forms of forced or compulsory work have naturally changed over time. Trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced or compulsory labour is increasingly a cause for concern worldwide and calls for urgent action to eradicate it. The provisions of the Protocol concern four areas. Firstly, measures to prevent forced labour, to educate and inform people about their rights, to ensure appropriate regulation and supervision, to protect migrant workers from possible abuse and fraud, to prevent risks and to address root causes and factors that raise risk. Secondly, identification, release, protection, recovery and rehabilitation of victims, compensation for damage and support for victims. Thirdly, the competent authorities must have the right not to prosecute and punish victims of forced labour for their involvement in illegal acts for which they have been forced to act as a direct consequence of being a victim of forced or compulsory labour. The fourth area is cooperation between ILO members to prevent and eliminate forced labour. The ratification of the Protocol has been supported by the Estonian ILO Council, which also includes representatives of trade unions and employers' organisations. The ratification of the Protocol does not entail any change in national law. The requirements arising from the Protocol are covered by the law in force in Estonia: the Victim Assistance Act, the Aliens Act, the Penal Code, the Strategy for the Prevention of Violence 2015 Although ratification of the Protocol does not entail any significant changes for us, it is important to emphasise the importance of ratification of the Protocol on an international scale. The ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the ILO Convention on Forced Labour is primarily a foreign policy step in which Estonia, as a member of the ILO, expresses its support for the fight against global forced labour. By ratifying the protocol, Estonia sends a message to both the international community and people involved in trafficking in human beings that forced labour is not acceptable in Estonia and we are prepared to ensure that everything we can to prevent and eliminate it. It is true that, at present, there are not many countries that could have ratified this protocol, as it is the 2014 Protocol. There are so far four countries that have ratified: Mauritania, Niger, Norway and Great Britain. In many countries, the internal process is ongoing. I'm done with that. I ask the Riigikogu to support this excellent bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U168	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U169	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As I understand it, we know now that there are some convicts somewhere in 32. But you said that only four countries have ratified this protocol. I would like to know how many convicts there are in Mauritania who have ratified it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U170	I don't know where you're gonna get that number 32. I said that, globally, there are estimated 20.9 million victims of forced labour. In a broader context, it is clear that joint decisions of this kind in the form of additional protocols are primarily aimed at strengthening the protection of human rights worldwide and, in particular, through the UN and other international organisations, at forcing less developed countries to develop standards for the protection of their people. For most Western countries, of course, the provisions contained in the Protocol to the Convention are already covered by existing laws. So, above all, we really expect the human rights situation to improve in the rest of the world. I must admit that I am not familiar with human rights and forced labour in Mauritania in particular. I dare say that the situation is worse than that of Estonia. All the more so is that the Mauritanian State, however, has decided to accede to this Protocol and hopefully, therefore, to amend its laws in such a way that human rights are more protected. But I cannot give you a concrete picture of the situation in Mauritania today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U171	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Why, then, have so few countries ratified such an important protocol? Can we conclude from that that that problem has already been solved proactively by other laws in other countries, or what is the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U173	There is actually one very simple reason for this. As you can see from the draft, this protocol has been adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. This means that most countries have simply not yet been able to go through their national procedures. As we know, the internal procedures in Estonia are beautifully effective and fast, but it has also taken us almost two years to reach the Riigikogu with this bill. In many countries, the pace of processing is even slower. In many countries, the institutions involved in the process of ratifying the drafts are also known to be significantly more. In some countries, Parliament has several chambers and has separate other institutions with which everything needs to be coordinated. So the main reason should be sought right here. We are honoured to be one of the first countries to go through the ratification process, and this is, in my opinion, a beautiful gesture of foreign policy. In essence, this is a benevolent pressure from Europe and other Western countries on the rest of the developed world to raise their standards in the field of human rights, and it is logical that the countries that are exerting this pressure are themselves exemplary in ratifying the Additional Protocols to the international conventions. I think it is a good thing that we have reached this point, and I am convinced that in a few years' time countries will have ratified considerably more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U174	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U175	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! According to the statistics in Estonia, 30-140 sex slaves are discovered each year, but the explanatory memorandum states: "However, occupational exploitation, which is more difficult to detect than sexual exploitation, is a growing problem. " So it's clear with the sex slaves. But name three occupations in Estonia, where enslavement and forced labour are the highest risk that the managers of these occupations will know!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U176	Thank you. Rather, there are no problems with more forced labour in Estonia. There are, of course, isolated cases, such as the 32 you mentioned. Indeed, the situation in Estonia is worrying in the area of sex trafficking. There are certainly people in this sector who do not want to work there. This is where law enforcement authorities need to step up their work. That's clear. Unfortunately, this part of crime is often international, which means that it is much more difficult to eradicate human trafficking networks than ever before. It is precisely human trafficking that has developed in an increasing trend in the context of all this forced labour, and in the European Union, legal practitioners have also paid close attention to this issue. There have been many European initiatives in this area. As far as forced labour in other areas is concerned, there is certainly no systemic problem in any sector of Estonia. However, we are talking about a situation where we have about 600,000 people on the labour market in total. According to statistics, we discovered 32 cases in one year and maybe 40 in some years, especially in the field of sex trafficking. Of course, it can never be ruled out that somewhere there is an employer who forces a person to work by force and disregarding the law, but a proper law enforcement system and a social protection system for people's employment relations have been established in Estonia, which is basically sufficient to rule out forced labour. As far as individual cases are concerned, especially if they are criminal, the police can help here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U177	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U178	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee worked on the preparation for the first reading of the draft Act 190 on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention at the meeting of the Commission on Monday 4 April. As here today, the Minister for Health and Labour presented to the Commission a draft for ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Convention on Forced Labour, adopted at the International Labour Organisation General Conference on 11 June 2014. Members of the Commission listened to the presentation and also asked some additional questions, as they did here today. The question was whether a specific deadline had been granted for ratification of the protocol and why so few countries had ratified it so far. The Minister has already answered this question today when my colleague, Krista Aru, asked about it. According to the European Union recommendation, this should be done as soon as possible, but by the end of 2018 at the latest. This is a recommendation from the European Commission. In addition, there was an interest in imposing activity requirements and social work on unemployed persons, for example, whether forced labour would be involved in the context of the Convention. According to the Minister, this is not forced labour. There are countries in Europe that have moved towards introducing activity requirements for people on account of unemployment, one of which may also be social work. It is certainly possible to impose certain conditions, but this is a much wider and more important subject than the ratification of the Protocol to this Convention. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 20 April, to propose that the plenary session be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 4 May, and that the rapporteur be Mr Vilja Toomas, Member of the Commission. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U179	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 190. The first reading is closed, and I will set the deadline for the submission of 190 amendments, including 4 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U180	Let's go to the seventh or last item on the agenda today. The first reading of Bill 206 of Amendment to the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U181	Introducing bill No 206 'Law amending the Law on Rooms'. In order to put this in the context of the draft, I would like to say, as an introduction, that this is the second stage of the transposition of the European Tobacco Directive. The first draft in this regard reached the Riigikogu in the autumn of last year and at the beginning of this year the Riigikogu adopted it as a law. In this draft, we will take the final steps to transpose this directive. The deadline for transposition is 20 May. a, so it's pretty quick. But since this is generally a directive that is fully in line with the principles of Estonian tobacco policy, it is believed that the procedure will go without problem in the Riigikogu. As I said last time when I introduced the draft transposition of the Tobacco Directive, Estonia has been systematically dealing with tobacco use and the resulting losses for more than 15 years. Advertising of tobacco products is completely prohibited, packaging must be alerted to damage to health, there is a ban on the sale of minors and smoking is prohibited in indoor public use. Similarly, tobacco products are subject to a ban on sponsorship and promotion, and excise duties on tobacco products have been raised for a long time. In the next four years, the law passed by the Riigikogu will further increase the rate of excise duty and the price of tobacco products will increase. As a result of these measures, the share of everyday smokers in Estonia has decreased steadily. As of 2014, this figure was 22%, which is nearly 4% less than in 2010. It can also be noted as positive that a lower proportion of schoolchildren smoke. Compared to 2014, the proportion of school pupils who declared themselves non-smokers has increased by 6%, while boys have increased by 7%, girls have increased by 5%. But, of course, it is clear that smoking and tobacco consumption are a very serious health risk. It can even be said that smoking is the second cause and risk factor of avoidable death in the order and has caused very serious economic and social damage to the country. In 2011, 3790 people died from smoking-related illness in Estonia and our figure per 100000 inhabitants is about 1.5 times higher than the European Union average. This is why, in the end, important steps have also been taken at European Union level, because it is a global business and it is difficult to restrict global business in a small country. In this context, it is pleased that, unlike alcohol policy, where there has been little uniform functioning of the European Union, serious measures have nevertheless been taken in the form of this directive in tobacco policy. Now, then, to this particular draft, which, like the previous law, as has been said, transposes the requirements of the directive. While the first law mainly concerned the packaging and labelling of tobacco products and compositional requirements, the second law deals primarily with electronic cigarettes. Recently, the consumption of electronic cigarettes has grown at a rather explosive rate throughout Europe and also in Estonia, and the regulation was completely non-existent in Estonia for some time. The first steps have now been taken, for example, to set an age limit that did not initially exist and to ban them from being consumed and sold in childcare facilities. But so much about statistics that the number of consumers in Estonia has been on an upward trend. While in 2012 10% of the population had used e-cigarettes, by 2014 this figure had increased to 15%. The number of e-cigarettes tried by school pupils has also increased every year, and therefore more stringent requirements for electronic cigarettes are also needed for health protection purposes. While electronic cigarettes were only beginning to gain popularity around the world, the producers themselves were the first to speak, but also very many consumers were aware of the fact that this was a smoking cessation measure. People were said to switch to electronic cigarettes, but they also stop using them, and they're out of nicotine addiction. Recent studies, however, clearly show that electronic cigarettes generally do not work as substitution treatments. Of course, there are few examples of people who have been freed from their addiction to tobacco or nicotine, but generally this does not work. Health risks are different from those of tobacco, but they are still high. The risk is, for example, that the nicotine content of e-cigarette has not yet been regulated. With this draft, we are trying to regulate it a little bit, but the possibility of simultaneously administering a high dose of nicotine, which can lead to poisoning, is much higher than in normal cigarettes. All sorts of things are added to the filling fluids, which may make the product more attractive, but on the other hand harms health. Consequently, this draft will introduce these new requirements in accordance with the Directive. Some of the most important requirements I read to you, perhaps not all. First of all, the requirement that electronic cigarettes should provide a dose of nicotine at an evenly high level is precisely that too high a dose should not be given at the same time. Secondly, there is a requirement that refill containers for electronic cigarettes must be child-resistant, tamper-proof, protected against breakage and leakage and equipped with a mechanism to prevent leakage during filling. It also lays down requirements on the composition of nicotine-containing electronic cigarette filling fluid to avoid health risks due to harmful additives, accidental poisonings and compositional impurities. The maximum content of nicotine in the filling liquid is set at 20 milligrams per ml and the liquid must not contain vitamins or other substances associated with beneficial health effects, caffeine, taurine and other stimulants, additives which give colour to the released substances, and substances which present a health hazard in either heat-treated or unheated form, with the exception of nicotine. The labelling of an electronic cigarette and its filling liquid packaging shall also be established. The shape of the packaging must not mislead the consumer as to the packaging. It must also in no way direct people to consume it more, to suggest economic benefits, to somehow create the impression that it is suddenly not so very harmful, etc. The health warning requirement shall also be added: the health warning shall be 30% of the outer surface of the packaging and the text shall be 'This product contains nicotine, which is an easily addictive substance'. In addition, the pre-filled electronic cigarette and its filling liquid sales package must be accompanied by a leaflet with the necessary information. In addition, the draft contains some technical specifications concerning the reporting of ingredients. There is also a ban on cross-border distance sales of tobacco products and related products, i.e. a form of trade that allows you to order a tobacco product that is delivered by courier on the Internet. There are a number of problems related to this, such as the issue of tax risk, i.e. excise duty, is not paid. That's one side of the thing. The other is the fact that it is difficult to control the quality of products. The third and most important problem is that distance selling in general makes it considerably easier for minors to access tobacco products. As has been said, the draft should have been adopted as a law by 20 May 2016. If the Riigikogu succeeds in this task, I am grateful to you for it. But finally, a few words to prevent some of the questions that arose in the Commission. Originally, the draft law went to the coordination circle at government level in a slightly different and more extensive form. In particular, in addition to the provisions of the Tobacco Directive, which are included in the current option, there were also a number of other proposals on tobacco policy arising from the State's own tobacco policy agreement paper, the Green Paper on tobacco. For example, the draft also included a national ban on distance selling. There was also a proposal to hide tobacco products in shops under the counter or behind the counter or anywhere in one word, out of the sight of the buyers. It has also been agreed in principle in the government that regulation on control shopping should be introduced into the tobacco law to better protect minors. Police officers should have the right to shop checks to see whether shops comply with the law, i.e. no tobacco products are sold to minors. However, in view of the merciless pressure on the directive's deadline, we have decided to remove from this draft, at government level, all proposals that are not related to the directive. Different ministries, as usual, have different opinions on this. And these additional provisions would probably have created a discussion here in the Riigikogu, which would have extended the procedure. So we have all removed what has been added here, but we have reached an agreement in the government that the remaining amendments will come into the Riigikogu procedure with a separate draft on the Third Tobacco Act in the near future. I have already presented this material to the Government of the Republic, and it is waiting to be discussed in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U182	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U183	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am quoting here the Estonian Merchants Association, which describes this bill and its explanatory statement and states directly: superficial, unclear and controversial. The Union also points out that there should still be an intention to develop. The draft tables state that the provisions requiring the development plan were deleted. Tell me specifically what was then deleted because there is no plan for development, but the Minister of Justice demands it! Fearfully, some of the provisions were rejected. What were they?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U184	Indeed, the coordination table before you is the coordination table for this version, which was in the internal round of coordination within the government and where, in addition to the current provisions of the directive, there were other proposals stemming from the Green Paper on tobacco. In view of the fact that the deadline for the directive was imposed by the press, I repeat, we have decided to delete the provisions relating to the directive from the draft. We come to them with a separate bill. So when you read this coordination table, you just have to bear in mind that these organisations, the Merchants' Association, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have issued an opinion on the second version of the draft, not on what is on your tables here today. With regard to the specific provisions that have been omitted, I have already mentioned some of them. The national ban on distance selling has been removed and the second and most important restriction on the display of tobacco products at points of sale. This has been described differently by merchants themselves: turn the cigarette boxes in the opposite direction so that the buyers do not see them or put them under the counter. Technically, this can be resolved in several ways, but the aim is to reduce spontaneous purchases of tobacco products. Well, as a person goes to the store, he buys his own bread and bread, and at the cash register, the bags of cigarettes are pressing on him. Since it is an addictive substance, the percentage of spontaneous purchases is very high for these products. If they're hidden, you have to ask the seller separately. This reduces the number of spontaneous purchases. It is a particularly serious psychological barrier for minors who cannot then simply take them and put them on tape, but must ask separately. This proposal is currently out of the draft, but we will come with a new draft. Indeed, the Traders' Association has reacted to this painfully in some way, but as I said, in the Green Paper on Tobacco, this measure has in itself been agreed and, in fact, most merchants agree with this change. And there is also the third thing that we have tried to integrate with the Social Committee earlier in the tobacco law, but there has been no agreement between the various ministries in the government so far, and so it has not happened. I mean, juvenile control. Now there's an agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs that we're doing this. But it has been excluded from this bill, and it will also come in the third package. There are probably some single points left, I dare not say that these three changes are the only ones left out. But you will be able to examine the original version of this bill in the prenoud.governance.ee. There is also this draft version of the coordination round available.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U185	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Is the smoking of e-cigarettes in public comparable to the smoking of ordinary cigarettes, or is it treated separately? And is that, like, later, rather than the subject of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U187	This is not related to the directive, so in that sense it is certainly the question of the next draft. This draft could be kept within the framework of the directive, and this is also the logic of the draft procedure. However, in many areas, the use of electronic cigarettes is already equivalent to the normal use of tobacco. Children's institutions, for example, must not smoke an electronic cigarette. It is also true that the Ministry of Social Affairs has had to propose extending the ban on smoking electronic cigarettes to other institutions and public places. There are also pretty compelling arguments. For example, health professionals and chemists confirm that the additives that are present in this liquid disperse very slowly from small spaces. I am not a chemist, and I do not know how to judge it, but these questions will be considered seriously, and it will certainly be reasonable to discuss them during the next draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U188	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U189	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Personally, I don't approve of any smoke, and I don't smoke anything. But what worries me is how well we know what is contained in e-cigarettes. It's still chemistry. How much research can give us information, what are the real consequences of e-cigarettes and what are the differences compared to tobacco products?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U190	This is one of the broader objectives of this directive. Tobacco products, both electronic and conventional, have a huge amount of this crap. Even surprisingly much for me. When I got into this subject, I discovered that ordinary cigarettes also use colorants, fragrances and, for example, substances that dye tobacco smoke. Vitamins are added, different stimulators are added to filters to facilitate the uptake of tobacco products, etc. The same picture also appears when studying electronic cigarettes: fragrances, seasonings, vitamins and caffeine, taurine, other additives that color the smoke coming out. To date, the inclusion of a wide range of substances, including substances harmful to health, in tobacco products has not been prohibited. This is all an issue that this directive deals with very clearly. Among other things, the obligation to report on ingredients is laid down. And this composition, of course, has to be checked. Our plus in this context is that tobacco products are not produced in Estonia, which means that all tobacco products and tobacco-like products consumed in Estonia come from abroad. In other countries, however, the required chemical and health analysis is already carried out in the respective laboratories. But, of course, our own Health Board must also have the ability to control this content if it proves necessary. But I repeat, so far there have been no real requirements for e-cigarettes or ordinary cigarette ingredients. With this directive and the corresponding laws, we are transposing these requirements into our law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U191	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act for the first reading at its meeting on Monday 11 April. In addition to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, Kärt Sõber, Head Specialist of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, also attended the meeting of the Commission. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there was a debate about the same as it has been here so far. The minister introduced the bill and answered our questions. Since the questions were more or less the same as in this Chamber, I am not going to introduce these questions and answers to you for a very long time, just to mark some of the key issues that interested the Members of the Commission. It was asked how many countries have now transposed this directive. The answer is that the only country is Italy. Italy has done this so quickly because, in essence, it has rewritten the directive into its own law, it has been knocked off in Parliament, and so Italy has been able to do it so quickly. Of course, there was an interest in Italy banning cross-border distance selling. We received a reply from ministerial officials that Italy has not banned cross-border distance sales. Just as the minister replied here, he replied to us why Estonia has introduced this ban. If cross-border distance sales are allowed, there will be an obligation to introduce a system for the registration of operators and an age control mechanism, which is very costly and time-consuming. It's easier to say no. As the Minister said, this market share is marginal; in Estonia it is not very dealt with. There was also a question about the requirements for the packaging of electronic cigarettes, which the Minister was talking about, as was the introduction of a control purchase mechanism for minors. One important issue in the Commission was that if the European Union has not yet been able to introduce implementing acts, then whether we have the right to adopt our own legislation. The officials of the Ministry explained that we actually have the basic text of the directive in place and that nothing will change there. Rather, it is technical specifications. For example, an e-cigarette standard developed for the enforcement mechanism. As regards the flavours of e-cigarettes, an advisory committee will be set up to examine this issue, which will be central to the whole of the European Union. These people are assigned certain procedures for their work. One issue that we have already raised, and which has also reached me as a drafter, is certainly not satisfied with the ban on cross-border distance selling as an easier option. One important objection to the current tobacco law concerns new non-smoking products placed on the market. They want to know why they're being banned. E-cigarette was a completely novel non-smoking tobacco product some time ago and one might ask why we are setting rules on it. At the same time, we know that there are already completely novel tobacco products developed by Philip Morris and British American Tobacco, for example. They are not available on the Estonian market and, according to the current Tobacco Act, they cannot be placed on the market. This is one of the issues on which the Commission must continue to work. The Minister has already touched smoking places and I have received the same information. As the smell of e-cigarette lasts a long time and certain components do not disappear from the small space, housing associations have also approached me about whether small shops that are in apartment buildings and where e-cigarettes are sold and tried should not be the places where the use of e-cigarette should be prohibited as in children's institutions. So in this respect, I am not very optimistic either that we will be able to adopt the law amending the tobacco law by 20 May. However, the Commission is ready to work and do its utmost to ensure that it is adopted quickly and that all concerned have a clear understanding of what requirements will apply on 20 May. But now the decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 20 April, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 28 April. Mr Vilja Toomas, Member of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U192	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We were talking about tobacco products, but there was not a word about chewing tobacco and mocha tobacco, as well as Nicotinell or other nicotine patches that can stick themselves all over. You called chemicals a mess a few times. As a chemist, I can say that an electronic cigarette can put anything from the opium to the cocaine. How is it controlled? And that sneaker that's dissipating is no longer exactly similar to what's in that liquid. How have you foreseen this supervision or what you are taxing? Are you taxing smoke, taxing an operation or taxing a health risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U194	Taxation is not an issue at all in the context of this draft. But as far as the composition of the electronic cigarette filling fluid is concerned, as I said, so far we do not have strict requirements for it, which is why it has also been impossible to monitor. We haven't had a legal basis for this shit. Now, with the transposition of this directive, we will have a legal framework for doing so and, of course, we will put in place this control mechanism. Our plus is that if we are able to identify and we are able to identify the origin of the.., including electronic cigarettes, that is, where they are produced, we generally also know that their content meets the requirements, i.e. they are safe according to the criteria of the new law. And a large number of this content must be monitored not by us, but by the countries where these cigarettes are produced or by the countries from which they are brought into the European Union. Of course, Estonia must also have the capacity to protect people's health and control the composition of these electronic cigarettes, if necessary. Of course, this does not mean that the Health Board is going to take samples of every electronic cigarette. However, if it appears in any way that they are either counterfeit products or a producer who is in breach of the requirements of the directive, including Estonia's requirements, they will act in accordance with the law. I think there was one more question, but I've forgotten it. Oh, there was a question about chewing tobacco and lip tobacco. They are also, in principle, regulated in the Directive. As far as lip tobacco is concerned, the marketing of lip tobacco in Estonia is and will remain prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U195	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have requested that we adopt this bill as a law by 20 May. It's really not real. I'm sure you won't be able to do this within a month. But that's it. My question concerns cross-border distance selling. A well-known directive allows the state to decide whether or not to allow this sale, and Estonia has gone this way to ban cross-border distance selling. What's the point? And secondly, how many countries have banned this distance selling?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U197	First of all, I apologise on behalf of the government that this bill has reached the Riigikogu proceedings so late. The transposition of the Tobacco Directive has been very forward-looking across Europe, as the directive was adopted at a rather rapid pace in the European Union and the deadline for its entry into force is very short for the European Union itself. Consequently, the European Commission has not developed in due time a number of necessary implementing provisions and implementing documents. It has also slowed down the presentation of this bill in this hall because it has all come at the last minute. As a result, we are certainly not the only country in Europe that has a pretty tight timetable for transposition by the deadline for the regulation. As far as cross-border distance sales are concerned, the directive does indeed provide two options: either to prohibit it completely or to create a completely new, separate monitoring system, which provides for the registration of all distance sales. After consulting with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we found that there are almost no market participants in Estonia. There is no business interest in this area in Estonia, but the bureaucracy involved in developing this system would be beautiful. So we considered this possibility, which the directive gives, and we found that this system would be disproportionately cumbersome, and so we decided to go into the ban. I can't tell you by heart now, but as far as I know, there are individual countries, I would even like to say that there is only one country, but yes, individual countries have decided to allow cross-border distance sales and create a new reporting system. Most have preferred to go down the road of total prohibition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U198	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U199	Good manager! Good waitress! Of course, it would be interesting to know why Denmark has decided not to ban, and we here diligently prohibit. What are their motives? But I want to ask you a completely different question. Traders have proposed that it be possible to sell products that facilitate quitting smoking, such as plasterers, chewing gum, etc. But you say in this table that this proposal should not be taken into account. Why? Why not take that into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U200	Good President and few colleagues who have stayed here! The summary of this day is sad enough. First of all, we shoot cannon sparrows fighting counterfeit moneymakers, as I've already said. Essentially, we want to give the opportunity to use surveillance, including underage surveillance, to combat a few counterfeiters. Secondly, I refer to the overachievement in the discussion of the Forced Labour Convention, although we have very few sex slaves and other convicts. Still, as a fifth country, we are trying to adopt this convention miraculously. In Mauritania, there are more sex slaves and other forced laborers by size than we do and it is clear why they have adopted it, but we, I stress, have a lot less of them, and I do not know why we are trying to be overly ambitious and to serve as a spur in front of someone. And now the same bill, the bill to amend the tobacco law. Both the Chamber of Commerce and the Traders' Association have made a devastating assessment of this. The Chamber of Commerce considers that the draft contains a number of important measures, such as the ban on the display of tobacco products at the point of sale, the ban on national distance sales of tobacco products, which is not the result of a directive at all. Furthermore, the drafters have not explained in detail why they want to transpose the tobacco law into measures that Estonia is not obliged to transpose under the Directive. It actually shows overachieverity. Of course, the keywords of this bill are 'over foot' and 'as fast as possible' at the last minute. May 20th is almost there. But what is important? If the Centre Party tried here to restore the local government's income base to the level of pre-masus time, which matters much more to the people of Estonia, then the coalition drew it to the water. It's telling me so much. A number of hurried, shaky and overly ambitious drafts will be presented, but those that are important will be flushed over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U201	Thank you. Vilja Toomas on behalf of the Reform Party Group! Does Jaanus Marrand have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U202	I have a procedural question because I did not understand how the tobacco issue, the tobacco law, works with municipal funding. A free microphone is known to be on Monday, then it is time for such proposals. That way, we can all go to the remote and talk about any problem in the world when discussing a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U203	Thank you. There is no connection, but the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu does not prohibit people from expressing their thoughts freely when handling any draft law within the time limits of course. But now I'd like to ask for the eloquence of Vilja Toomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U204	I won't keep you for very long. I am simply reacting to my colleague's speech, and I would like to say that, regardless of whether we can, if you say so, adopt this draft before 20 May or not, the directive adopted by the European Parliament in April 2014, if I remember correctly, will be in force on 20 May either way. However, the government coalition has a duty to inform its entrepreneurs and all Estonian people of the decisions that await them on 20 May. That's why we've been trying to do everything, but there hasn't been any more. And I also promise that the Commission will work very closely on the changes that will take effect on 20 May. I also dare say that the Estonian Tobacco Act already in force has much stricter rules than the adopted Tobacco Directive. And all those provisions that are currently excluded and which are not directly related to the Directive will not apply either way. We will continue to deal with them calmly and prudently, we will discuss them with both traders and the tobacco producer association, as well as with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in the autumn, when the government has come up with a draft amendment to the Third Tobacco Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U205	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U206	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 206. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 206 amendments, including 28 April at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4:34 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U207	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U208	This also partly answers the question of March Sults, who also spoke about nicotine patches. Indeed, the difference is that nicotine patches and chewing gum are considered to be effective substitution treatments, essentially medical or almost pharmacological interventions, both in Estonia and in the rest of Europe, in order to give up tobacco. As a result, it is essentially a medicine that helps people to overcome their addiction. But medicines are sold in a pharmacy in Estonia. The point is that the substance is strong poisons. When we take nicotine patch and nicotine gum at nicotine levels, it is quite a powerful and improper use of poisonous substances, so it is important that they are preceded by specialist advice, or pharmacist consultation. That's why they're being sold at the pharmacy. It is true that merchants have said from time to time in Estonia that certain over-the-counter medicines could be sold in shopping centres in Estonia, just as there are in several countries. For example, in Britain, headache tablets and many other medicines are sold in supermarkets. In Estonia, the correct, safe and not excessive use of medicines, i.e. targeted consumption, has been found to be very important. It is best to ensure that medicines are only dispensed by specially trained professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U209	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Here's the question. I'm a smoker, and I smoke 0.8 milligram nicotine cigarettes. Supermarkets and just the strongest smokes have disappeared from circulation. Is this one part of the policy, or is it asking me to smoke more of the weaker cigarettes and buy four packages instead of one, say, in two days, for example? Is that part of the policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U211	I certainly have not done anything as Minister of Health. But the truth is that manufacturers themselves have reduced the strength of tobacco products over time. For example, 30 to 40 years ago, tobacco was much greater in strength. It may seem natural that if a person smokes a strong pack of cigarettes a day, and if he started smoking twice as thin cigarettes, he would buy twice as many packages. Actually, that's not true. There may be some sort of behavioral correlation between the intensity of smoking and the strength of cigarettes, but it is undoubtedly not one to one. The second point is that the strength shown on the package does not really indicate how much this harmful substance is attracted by a person. Much depends on how you smoke a cigarette. So if you want to get a harder spanking than a lean cigarette, there's a lot of ways. I think you know how it can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U212	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U213	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Your answer to my previous question gave me a big question mark. Why are there no requirements for chemical substances? Is this because of the lobbying of producers? The second question: has Estonia not thought that, since we do not have any producers, to impose chemical restrictions on products sold domestically?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U214	Why there are still no strict restrictions on the chemical composition of tobacco products, cannot be answered. I daresay that the global tobacco lobby has played a role in this. There is a regulation in the European Union which, for example, lays down certain chemical content requirements for furniture. When a table is being prepared somewhere, it is very strictly regulated which substances should not be present at this table. For example, when glue is placed in somewhere, it is known what it must not emit as it could be harmful to health. In the case of tobacco products, this is not a human being puts smoke in front of him and smokes anything in him. You can put colorants and acetone and anything at all. Why it has not been regulated so far does not know. But the good news is that with this directive, the area will be regulated and, according to the draft on electronic cigarettes, and the rest of the tobacco products in this law, which was adopted by the Riigikogu at the beginning of this year, these strict requirements have been laid down. In essence, tobacco products should not contain anything but tobacco. A transitional derogation has been granted for menthol cigarettes as they form a large part of the market and have been found to be subject to a transitional period. But in general, tobacco products must not contain additives.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U215	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have one question that does not directly concern this directive, but it is interesting for this generation who has seen how the regulation of smoking has worked well. The gray rooms and buses and homes of smoke have disappeared from our world and it is fantastic. But how much do you consider the likelihood that tobacco and smoking will remain in history at all? When could that happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-20_U217	Thank you, an excellent question and one that you could really think about. Two legal drugs are widespread in the world: tobacco and alcohol. And there's a bunch of other drugs that are illegal. The reason why some are legal and others are illegal is purely historical. At one point, when restrictions were introduced in the countries, some drugs were already widespread, others were not. Many people consumed and thought that it would be too painful for them to be banned. Everyone else was banned. The WHO has recognised that if there were no tobacco products in the world at all and then suddenly they would come to the market somewhere, the WHO would not legalize tobacco products. The WHO recommendation would be not to legitimise tobacco for two reasons: firstly, it creates strong dependence, and secondly, it causes very serious health damage. The third reason, however, is that tobacco consumption cannot talk about the amount of safe consumption. In the case of alcohol, researchers are arguing about this, and overall, the rate of safe or safe, even healthy, alcohol consumption has decreased considerably over the last 20 years. If it was ever thought that a bottle of wine per day was quite healthy, then now the estimates tend to be about such that two glasses of wine per week are a safe quantity. But it is generally considered that a small amount of alcohol is not harmful to health. In the case of tobacco, there is nothing to talk about health safety when it comes to consumption. And consequently, the WHO has said that they would make a clear recommendation not to allow tobacco products to be placed on the market. It can also be said that several countries have taken the fight against tobacco to the next level and declared that the country's aim is to become a tobacco-free society for a given year. One country, I know, thinks it can accomplish this in ten years. I think maybe not in ten years, but the goal is in itself the right one. In Estonia, as I said at the beginning, there are about 22% of everyday smokers, men considerably more than women. I think it's difficult to reach zero in ten years, but it should definitely be moving in that direction.
