ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Dear Riigikogu, we will start the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries! Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party, I would like to report an inquiry to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The question concerns the situation in Ida-Virumaa. We have all learned over the last few months about the large redundancies that come from the fall in the market price of oil in Ida-Viru County. The chemical group Viru Chemistry Group announced that it plans to mobilise 500 employees working in oil shale plants using Kiviter technology. Currently, unemployment is 10% in Ida-Virumaa. New redundancies, to put it mildly, create higher unemployment rates and even greater tensions and problems in the region. It is not traditional specialists, but a narrow area of specialists who work in an area that is strongly and well developed in Estonia. This area is very important and its support is primary. What can be done in this area? It has been said since 2013 that environmental charges only permit trade in chemical products produced in Estonia if the price of oil is high. The price of oil has fallen today, and the policy of environmental charges must probably also be reviewed. That is what we want to discuss in this Chamber with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U4	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I hereby submit to the procedure the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu. We would like to supplement § 39 (5) of the Act with the following wording: 'The meetings of the Riigikogu Committee are recorded. ' There is no such requirement in the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, some committees record sessions, some do not. On particularly sensitive and important issues, problems have arisen and disputes have arisen as to how the Members of the Commission actually voted, what was decided or how discussions took place. The purpose of the draft is to make it compulsory to record the meetings of the Riigikogu committees so that later all votes and debates can be verified. The purpose of the recording is to ensure that disputes and disagreements can be better resolved. An additional reason for amending the law is the procedure of the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act in the Committee on Legal Affairs. A number of members of the Committee on Legal Affairs have found that the Commission has violated good legislative practice when dealing with the above-mentioned draft law. There are also differences between the views of the Members of the Commission on what was actually decided in the Commission. Various measures have even been considered to resolve this matter. If there was a recording, such situations would be avoidable. An honest procedure is just as important as a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U5	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U6	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I have an inquiry to the respected Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. The National Cultural Prize is one of the most important recognitions for the creative person. All matters relating to the national cultural prize, as in the case of awards to people at all, must be as correct as possible. I am embarrassed, sorry and ashamed that this year we had a very unfortunate mistake in awarding a prize to a respected and beloved writer. Although what has happened can no longer be undone or undone, we have five questions for the Minister of Culture, which should help prevent such embarrassing situations from arising in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U7	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U8	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have the honour of giving the Riigikogu proceedings the draft barbecue of decoy ducks. I used a figurative expression that has become available in Estonia. This is a draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and other laws. Its aim is finally to resolve the schizophrenic situation in which we have been in Estonia for years, where members of the Riigikogu can stand as candidates in municipal elections, but when elected they will not be able to work in the council because the principle of incompatibility of mandates applies. There has been a situation where we see in the councils of very many municipalities, especially the larger cities, and in the Tallinn Council in particular, that a huge number of representatives of the people are there as substitutes, and the people who actually got the votes turned out to be hypocritical decoy ducks. I do not want such a fate for the members of the Riigikogu, our colleagues, in the future. So let's do this honestly in the sense that some work in councils, others work in the Riigikogu, and they don't put themselves out for decoy. We also know that there is a different solution to the issue of the interpretation of the former Chancellor of Justice, Mr Jõks, of the inconsistency of mandates. We consider this inconsistency to be right and ask the Riigikogu to deal with the draft decoy ducks barbecue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U9	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's do the presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and no 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U10	Let's start working on today's item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, begins. Please report to Andres Anvelt, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U11	Good President of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! I will report to you an overview of the debate on the first reading of the draft law amending the anti-corruption law in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All the members of the Commission, apart from the representative of the Free Party, Jüri Adams, took part in the debate on this item. Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U12	Good waitress, I'm so sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I very much ask that we respect the waitress and those who wish to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U13	Thank you. Hannes Udde was also a leading specialist in the service department of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The Government of the Republic has essentially decided to support this draft. At the same time, when the Government of the Republic presented its opinion, it was found that the date of entry into force of the draft should be 1 May 2016, as the draft is relatively technical and not all technical changes can be implemented within a month by the Tax and Customs Board, which administers declarations of interest. The representative of the Ministry of Justice also highlighted some of the observations made by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice on the draft. The first observation concerned the fact that there are a number of persons obliged to submit a declaration of interest, but they have failed to comply with it. Ministers expressed the view that a solution should be developed, as there are no sanctions provided for in the current anti-corruption law for not making a declaration of interests. The question was whether the Riigikogu should not give the Special Committee on Corruption the power to impose sanctions, as it would certainly not be wise to create a separate organisation in such a case. According to a representative of the Ministry of Justice, the second observation concerns the amendment provided for in point 3 of the draft concerning the waiver of the declaration of social tax income received in the calendar year preceding the declaration of the declarant's position. The Minister of Justice and Finance is of the opinion that this creates a loophole in the law, as the civil servants' salaries are generally public according to the Civil Service Act, but there are also many declarants whose salary is not public. A possible solution would be to provide in the Anti-Corruption Act that if an institution imposes an obligation to declare on someone, it will publish on its website information on the official salary of the declarant itself. The Commission also mentioned the possibility of publicising the total revenue of the declarant. I'll explain the difference. Many declareers have incomes other than official wages, which do not concern their professional activities: dividend income, copyright income or any other kind of income. They should not be declared according to the current law, but since the Tax and Customs Board provides data on total income, the declarer must make complex separation and additions in order to include only income received as a salary in the declaration. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that one observation has been made regarding the publication of benefits. Ministers raised questions as to whether they should be published or not. According to the draft, the concessions received and granted by the declarant would have been intended for internal use in the future. Ministers asked whether it was justified or not to terminate disclosure. Following a statement by a representative of the Ministry of Justice of the above mentioned observations, he was asked questions. Among other things, the members of the Commission wondered whether it would not be possible to regulate both the disclosure of the total revenue and the disclosure of the benefits granted and received in such a way as to enable the declarant himself to decide whether they were public or not. It was also found that if a declaration of interest was not submitted by the deadline, the names of the defaulters could be published on some relevant website. The Commission was offered that this could be done, for example, on the website of the Special Committee against Corruption or on the website of the Ministry of Justice on corruption.ee. In such a case, these persons shall be subject to public control and pressure. The Commission expressed the view that it would not be reasonable to write into the draft as a threshold a specific amount of money from which the asset benefits received and granted are declared. Rather, the limit could be, for example, income subject to social tax in the last four months, as is the case with the law in force. It was also found that the disclosure of the benefits granted should take into account that the declarant may have made donations, for example on religious, sexual, health or other grounds which he does not wish to disclose. However, contributions to political parties are already public by virtue of the party law. The Tax and Customs Board offered that the threshold of the benefits granted and received may also be linked to the salary of a simple member of the Riigikogu, for example, or to the coefficient resulting from the Law on salaries of senior civil servants. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted in the draft concerning the threshold of EUR 4 000 that a parallel could be drawn here with the Penal Code, which states that the material material damage caused by the offence starts at EUR 4 000. Some members of the Commission considered that all the advantages granted and received should be public in the declaration of interest and that the declaration should be as transparent as possible. Some Members of the Commission also considered that the delicate benefits of the declarant, i.e. those granted for religious, health and other reasons, should not be disclosed. It was considered that the declaration of interest could be based on the principle that the declaration is as public as possible, which is also the point of the new declaration, while the declarant should be able to complete it as easily as possible. Procedural decisions were also taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 28 January 2016 (by 5 members of the Commission, 1 against and 2 abstentions), to propose the completion of the first reading (by 6 votes to 1, with no abstentions), to propose the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 February (consensually) and to appoint Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U14	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Would you not give examples of the benefits that were mentioned here? The benefits received from one source do not need to be declared up to EUR 4000. What kind of benefits are we talking about? Two or three examples of what they might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U16	Thank you. When it comes to benefits that a person has received, not to others, these may be gifts, for example. The law states that they do not concern close family members, because if the main text of the anti-corruption law is taken into account, it is possible to define these persons in the case of a declaration. The main thing is gifts. Bonuses are certainly not about customer benefits in some shops, because they are general and apply to everyone. However, there was also a discussion in the committee as to whether, theoretically, we did not discuss the matter to the end, of course, it simply came to the question of the so-called car concession granted to the members of the Riigikogu a few years ago. One way to say it's an advantage, the other way to say it isn't. But one of the objectives of this whole declaration of interests is also the public in the current anti-corruption law. The declarant himself has a desire to show that he is not in a position to have a conflict of interest. Therefore, filling in this box of benefits results from the person's own declaration of intent, from what he or she considers necessary, and in that case he or she must also bear the responsibility. If someone considers the advantage he has granted to, for example, the declarant important and publishes it, the declarant must be prepared to explain why he did not consider it important. The law does not make a very clear list. Many of these benefits, both in and out, as they say, are a matter of the declarant's own conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U17	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U18	Good manager! Good waitress! With these benefits, it's what it is. Many have all kinds of cards, there are many promotional campaigns, and, to sum up, there may actually be a lot of benefits for a lot of money. But maybe you'll open up a little bit of what things are sexually made donations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U19	Thank you. Let's start at the beginning of the question. I have already mentioned that the general preferences, for example, if they are a regular customer of some kind of trade chain, are by no means going down here. These are general benefits, not from a person's position, but from a person's attitude toward a chain of commerce and his loyalty to it. When it comes to donations for sexual reasons, which you mentioned, it is also up to the individual to decide. If, for example, it supports the LGBT association with a certain amount of money, it may consider it unnecessary to disclose it. Today's law requires disclosure if the donation exceeds the prescribed limit of 4,000 euros, otherwise it does not have to be recorded. Here is the same question that it does not occur, I would emphasise once again that the declaration of interests is a preventive measure of direct liability of any kind, even if the declaration is false or unsubscribed. The new version of the declaration of interest differs from that of the old one in that the declarations of all declarants are public. There are no longer tens of thousands of declarations drawn up, for example, by employees of many state agencies, not just officials, and put in a drawer somewhere. At present, this requirement only concerns senior civil servants, officials at political level. In many respects, it is a question of what a person thinks it is necessary to mention there. Let us not forget that there is another very important point in the declaration of interests: a person is given the opportunity to record risks or circumstances that could put him in a fork or in a conflict of interest situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U20	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, The purpose of this law is to correct some aspects of the system of declaration of interests introduced in 2014, which has been constructively criticised in particular by those making the declaration. Does this draft presently include, in your opinion, all the changes that are sensible to make, or is part of constructive criticism and proposals still subject to analysis, and this could come under discussion in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U22	Thank you. You're absolutely right. In fact, we also talked in the Commission about the possibility of changes to the second reading, precisely in terms of simplifying the implementation of the declaration. What's this about? The completion of the new declaration form has led to some confusion. The old name of the declaration was the 'Declaration of economic interests', but now it is the 'Declaration of interests'. The difference is that filling in the previous declaration form was pure manual work, but the new declaration was built on the basis of the Tax and Customs Board, i.e. it relates to all the national registers that the Tax and Customs Board has to use. That is where confusion has arisen, and individual points have been interpreted differently by the declarants. For example, the same complex wording as regards the income from social contributions received in the calendar year preceding the declaration in the post of declarant. The resulting complex operations and many are wrong in doing them. The second thing concerns so-called movable property, mostly cars. There is a very common mistake that a person puts on his, say, obligations, for example, leasing contracts, but where it is necessary to mark out what cars he has used in the last two months, he forgets to write them down because he thinks they are covered by leasing contracts. There will be a problem with leaving the cell blank, which will be pointed out. Many declarants have requested that compliance be as automatic as possible and the declarant, reviewing the declaration, makes precisely the changes that cannot be retrieved from the national databases. For example, the Tax and Customs Board knows the donations in which the country returns income tax. There's a certain list for that, but there's a lot of organisations that don't belong to that list. Then a person has to do manual work and write down these contributions. But I also stress that in the current law, this limit is quite high, most donations do not exceed it. That is why the law is such an objective requirement, but the subjective understanding of a person goes into some conflict with it. One of the main proposals for both the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Justice has been that, in addition to amending the law, the explanatory statement of the same declaration of interests or the manual should be better written, so that people understand these requirements unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U23	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We can see from the text that benefits from a single source need not be declared if they do not exceed EUR 4000. It is clearly stated that the benefits of one source will be aggregated. However, if these sources are 10 and the benefit from each source does not exceed, for example, EUR 3900, then the total of 10 sources is still EUR 39000. However, according to this text, these benefits do not need to be declared. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U25	Yes, thank you! That's right, from one source. If, for example, 4 000 euros or more have been received from a single source during the year, then it must be declared if the benefits have come from different sources, then there is no need to declare them. The same is true of the donations he has made. For example, if I have donated a total of EUR 4 000 to several organisations, this does not concern the declaration. If the donation has gone to one organization, it should be declared. I am almost certain that we in the Commission will focus most on the point of granting and granting concessions in the second reading. As a member of the Commission and rapporteur for this bill, I look forward to proposing how this problem of benefits can be resolved in the best way so that everyone is clear about what the law wants from us, and everyone is sure that they are not wrong in completing the declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! Tell me, too, in this large Chamber, whether this current amendment of the anti-corruption law has given me the impression that this law is becoming somewhat vaguer and more toothless in this form, given the earlier version, it is necessary at all. Secondly, I would like you to clarify whether these sexual donations concern only lesbian and gay associations or something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U28	Thank you. I'll start at the back. I guess it's your personal assessment of what, say, sexual interests you have and to whom you donate. If such organizations exist, you will write them down. It's a question of your conscience. I am under no circumstances the right answer to this question. I gave this example because it is one of the well-known organisations fighting for sexual minorities in Estonia and it was best to give an example. If you know any other organization and donate to it, no one has forbidden you to write it down either. The purpose of this declaration is not to apprehend those responsible. Corruptives are mostly seized by law enforcement authorities. In Europe, the production of such declarations has been one of the hallmarks of transparency in national governance. I am pleased that the new law imposes this obligation on the senior civil servants and relieves others of this obligation. Some policemen or rescue staff may have needed up to half a working day to fill out this long paper. They are now relieved of that obligation. But senior government officials and political leadership, just as we have here in the Riigikogu, it is important that when we complete this declaration, people's actions comply with words and are able to offer the electorate, taxpayers, the opportunity to get acquainted with the real interests of these people, for example, if they have contacts with business organisations, because these things run into a declaration under the law. These are, in my opinion, one of the most important points of this declaration and provide opportunities for 'neighbouring surveillance' and'social control'. That is the point of this declaration. It's not about catching possible corruption. When we talk about changes, as Mr Vaher pointed out, there is, after all, a desire to look for the best technical solutions available in the e-state, for the provisions that we are discussing today. With regard to the declaration of interests, too, the same principle that I have said on this board, which we have discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and which our leader has said that the state should ask as little as possible again for the data that people have already provided to the state. The declaration of interest is also exactly the same, should not be duplicated. Secondly, it is important to make declaration as uniform and comprehensible as possible. Again, I come back to this EUR 4000, which is another compromise. In the previous version of the Act, it contained not EUR 4 000, but, if I am not mistaken, income subject to social tax in the last four months. It has now become EUR 4 000, taken from another law. We in the Commission discussed whether it is right to write this 4000 in law, because in time and space the value of money changes either up or down. Therefore, it was proposed that this amount may be indexed to some of the ratios mentioned in another law. Certain indices have been discussed here in the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U29	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U30	Good manager! Good waitress! I would like to talk more about the benefits that are being made. I have not received a clear answer as to why some of the benefits have been excluded. I understand some delicate reasoning, but with this advantage, you can do so-called hidden transactions. The other thing is that there is one major problem with this declaration of interests. In fact, data from other databases doesn't come to you when you fill it, you have to do manual work. Should this requirement be introduced into the law to make it easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U31	Thank you. First of all, as far as hidden transactions are concerned, I dare say that I have not seen any such stupid corruption who would have written a declaration of interests as an advantage for bribery. It can't be a hidden deal in that sense. But when we talk about granting incentives and why we distinguish between organisations, this is the subject of discussion in the Commission now. Here we have no final solution. Let's not forget that this is the first reading. I would also like to expect some input from the head of the Special Committee on Corruption; your committee could discuss this. In the previous composition, I led the same special committee, then we were in the debate on the new anti-corruption law at all times, and we also held sessions with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to reach the best compromise, because we had to start implementing this law. It could also be the current composition. So that's an open question. Although Mr Ernits pointed out that sexual groups, minorities or whatever they were, were simply going through the Commission's debate, this issue arose for religious reasons. For example, if I donate to a church, but we have freedom of religion as a constitutional right, freedom of conscience, why do I have to show this donation somewhere? As far as political parties are concerned, contributions to political parties also run through data elsewhere. But the bad news is again that we are saying that we have an e-state, but on the other hand, for example, the Tax and Customs Board cannot automatically see contributions made to political parties, because political parties are not included in the list of those who receive income tax on donations. For example, when I donated last year to a health-related organization, it ran through my records beautifully. The amount was small, but I left it in there, I don't mind, and it runs through the donation records at the Tax and Customs Board. Not all donations can be seen there. Now the question is, should all the donations be there? Once again, we have the freedom of conscience, people are right, also senior civil servants and politicians have the right to do things according to their own conscience. I'd accept that. If there are any hidden transactions, it won't be a hidden donation, which is, I don't know, cash, a transfer, or anything else made, a declaration of interest anyway. If it comes out of somewhere, you can start demanding why it hasn't been written. That is the principle of public scrutiny. When public scrutiny shows that there's some kind of crime, law enforcement agencies come in behind it and explain the final truth. It is the case that the debate in the Commission continues. I think we can come up with some solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U32	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U33	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! A few years ago, we in the Riigikogu severely narrowed the circle of those who had to submit the MHD. The main argument then was that MHDs were still on paper at the time and that there were major problems with their administration and maintenance. Now these declarations are electronic and it is easier to submit them and keep them in the register. Shouldn't we perhaps look again at who has to present them? Corruption also exists in areas where people now no longer have to make this declaration, for example in different municipalities, districts and elsewhere. Shouldn't it be re-examined in the light of this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U34	Thank you. I'd be a little restrained in increasing that number. Why? I'll explain. Point 1 is that, in essence, even before this difficult paper-based declaration of economic interest was made, the objective of catching corruption was never directly achieved or achieved. There's no way to catch corruption with this. This is a measure intended for the public to demonstrate the interests of senior officials, whether it concerns executive power, legislative power or judicial power. When a conflict of interest arises, you must see a person's loyalty to the state, whether he has knowingly concealed something. We live in an open society. These conflicts of interest usually arise in the public and in the media in point A, and then in point B, we look at whether a person has made his interests known to society. Once he's reported, the problem is about to shrink, there's no question at all. A person has stated that he or she has an interest in one or another business organization or whatever. The second thing is that no one is prohibiting the authorities affected by this law from extending the circle of declarations. The principle of law right now is that the head of the institution essentially decides, in the municipality, if I am not mistaken, the council, maybe the city government or the municipality government will decide, I may be wrong, I can not remember, but they will also decide which officials will draw up this declaration. The institution or organisation has an obligation to ensure prevention of corruption, which can also be done through other measures, such as internal controls, etc. That is why the declarations that are made are all public. That's the public control. Speaking of the fact that all officials should declare, let us take, for example, my favourite subject, a police organisation with 3 500 officials whose interests should be disclosed in a declaration of interests somewhere. This brings us to nonsense, which does not add value in the fight against corruption, but can, on the contrary, be a little clogged by the large amount of work that someone should be working on every day on this subject. I would like to emphasise once again that this measure is not a good measure to catch corruption, but it is good for prevention and openness.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U35	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Tax returns and all this publicity are great. If the case of corruption appears in the tax return, it means that the declarer is a little stupid, or it's just a finger. But is there a rule of fist written in that law? For example, if a state or municipality has any kind of procurement, the rule of thumb is that half the money goes to the material and half to the wages. As Al Capone once said, you can't joke about taxes. Has the Tax and Customs Board thought about controlling the income tax and social tax received from procurements and making matrices and conclusions on whether or not money has disappeared from circulation? It's undeclared money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U37	Thank you. This is a very complex issue, which does not concern the debate on this draft, a good colleague. This was not discussed in the Commission, nor was it discussed whether there was life anywhere else in space.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U38	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U39	Good manager! Good waitress! You were talking about duplication. On the one hand, income subject to social tax, for example, does not have to be included in a declaration of interest, as it has already been entered into somewhere. However, other data are already included, such as being a member of the board of directors on the company portal, etc. Wouldn't it still be better if all the data that's out there ran into a declaration of interest? I'm going to go over another thing I asked you before. This is still the same duplication of e-data or a declaration of their interests. Does it have to be inside the law so that, for example, the position of a member of the management board is automatically included in the declaration of interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U40	If I am not mistaken, the indication of the company's membership of the board of directors automatically enters the declaration. For example, I know there's a problem with the NGOs. From my own experience, I know that the statement of membership of the political party's board has not gone into the declaration itself, I have added it by hand. But, if I remember correctly, in the case of companies, this statement should go into the declaration as of last year's turn. The question is, it's not going to happen on the run, i.e. if you make that request once, it'll be there. The law also states that it will be fixed at one date. The law requires that, for example, when a person changes his or her status in a company, he or she does not have to make changes. This data is as it stood, as it was some time before the declaration was made. We have to check it out. You, as the head of the Commission, should know better, but in my opinion, the company's data will be there automatically. If it doesn't exist, then it is, yes, one thing that the Tax and Customs Board must move towards enabling. It's not even about this law, we can write anything here. The question is how the state administration responsible for such cross-use, whether the Tax and Customs Board, the RIA or anything, can technically catch up. The declaration of interests has given rise to a great deal of discussion in this Chamber, precisely because we all, who are sitting here, are in contact with this declaration and want to improve its ease of use and, by doing so, our legislative will to let the executive know who should improve the database on this basis. I think that the questions on how to improve this system could be discussed together with your special committee and bring these shortcomings out more widely, as this law is currently before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U41	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U42	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! There's been a lot of interesting and new information. Since this declaration has also changed many times in the years that I have been here, maybe you can briefly summarise everything that is now changing in this declaration. You could point out the main points or, for my sake, all that, for God's sake, none of us would be wrong. The situation is that all kinds of corruption is under the radar. None of us want to be corrupt, or at least get caught with that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U43	Thank you. I think it's more like the first part of your claim that we're doing everything we can to never become a corrupt. But what we are changing with this law, we will finally decide at second and third readings. Now we are talking about simplification or making it clear. We are setting a threshold above which, for example, there will be an obligation to declare benefits, both to be granted and to be received, i.e. we will bring in a threshold of EUR 4 000. At least that's the proposal. As far as dividend income is concerned, there are also clarifications. I am also thinking of the same thing that we have been talking about here with my colleague, Mr Talvik: the changes are about the side activities of which the declarant has dealt with in the calendar year preceding the declaration. That is why we are solving this problem, i.e. we want to solve it, that on 1 January an automatic inquiry is made into the business register, and then, at that point, on 1 January, such links have emerged from the business register and that knowledge is lived until the next declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U44	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U45	There are companies that sell cottages on the moon, and on Mars there are already some properties booked. But I wanted to ask you this question. Has it not occurred to you to include a tax return clause or a series of public officials who have taken part in some of the public procurement competition committees for large projects? If you put this note there that, for example, I have taken part in the Procurement Committee on a state project of some EUR 7 billion, then you can see how my revenues, taxes or other things have changed since then.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Unlike you, I'm saying there's life in space.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U47	I believe that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U48	Thank you. Good colleague! Paragraph 14 (7) (2) of the current Anti-Corruption Act states that the declaration must contain information on any other fact which, as the declarant is aware, may lead to a breach of the duty, exclude the impartiality and objectivity of the declarant or lead to the risk of corruption, provided that the collection of such data does not infringe the rights of the declarant. In fact, as they say, there is a so-called free microphone in this law. On these lines, you can write about all those things that you think may raise doubts about your risk of corruption, both in public and elsewhere. So no one's going to put a limit like that in front of them. Again, no one who's on a bad road is going to mention what he wants to hide. Let's just say that Al Capone doesn't get caught with it. It still takes other, hidden methods. This declaration can be very good for the media, for example. If you declare yourself to be a poor public official, but at the same time you drive around in a Porsche and live in a fancy house that you have not written down, public scrutiny can make the subject very easy to raise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U49	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U50	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We were already discussing this electronic form the last time, and we also talked about it this time, when the legislative amendment came up, that at the moment we start filling out this declaration, we could have a pre-filled declaration last year on our computer screen, where we could make changes. Very many parts of this declaration, such as relatives, you depend on people and pension or bank accounts, whatever, don't change much in one year, but the risk of you forgetting something unwritten is much greater when you start off empty. How is it that this legislative amendment also provides for this practical side, so that it can start with supplementing last year's declaration rather than starting from scratch again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U51	Thank you, my good colleague. I agree with you 101%. The subject was also examined by the Commission as a remark. I say sincerely, too, by drafting a new declaration, I will print out the previous declaration with the screenshot (I do not remember exactly how I did it) so as not to be wrong with the data that I have already made clear to myself. This deficit was allowed to be considered on the technical side of implementation. I'm glad you brought it out. We are trying to keep this in mind, and once again it is the technical operators that are required to have such an added value, we call it that directly, in the database.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague, waitress! All of us, 101 in this hall, are filling out this declaration. To refresh your memory, tell me how big this circle of people is. Who should fill out this declaration of interests, who are these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U53	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U54	That would be a good question to ask my colleague, Mr Talvik. I can say that there are 3,000 of these people, as far as I know, and I heard during my appointment as Minister of Justice. This figure has decreased: it used to be around 30,000, 30,000 paper was in drawers somewhere, now there are 3,000 public declarations. Who's gonna have to fill it? The law provides a list of those who are obligated and who are, as is said, optimized persons. The obligated parties are certainly the political leadership of the state, the political leadership of the municipalities (members of the council and of the city or rural municipality government) and the management of the courts. The agencies and ministries are coming forward, where this decision is taken by the Agency or the Ministry itself, either at the level of the Chancellor or at the level of the Director-General, looking at whether there are other measures to reduce the risk of corruption in the administration, which generally means internal control. I know that in some agencies, the manager himself is a debtor, and he has also assigned the financial manager a similar obligation, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U55	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U56	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! I have, frankly, been very struggling with this declaration and all this issues. I may have a bit of a personal question, but I believe that the answer may be helpful to many others. I've been looking at it from here and there, but I've been told it very quickly, goof and boo-boo. Now, why don't you take a minute and tell me about it? What should I do, however, as a new member of the Riigikogu, who is in this position for the first time, particularly consider when completing the declaration of interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U57	What is the most important thing to keep in mind? It has been my own fault, I say frankly, when I have completed the declaration of interests for two years in a row, that I have both done it twice, because the previous declaration has not gone out. In both cases, the biggest problem has been that I have been counting on the cross-use of data already provided to the country, that the data will automatically come from all sides. Let's do the same car thing again. I understand the will of the legislator, which is why the leasing obligations have been set out separately, and then it has been demanded that the car be rewritten. There may be several reasons. For example, there may be two cars in the family. In a normal family, all liabilities are shared equally, although leasing is on behalf of one person, it does not matter. Car leases are in the name of one person, but, let's say, some house loans are in the name of another person. Or something like the use of a car that you use. You are not obliged to write this down as movable property that you have used in two months if you have not actually driven it. You only write down the car you've actually been driving. The other thing is, you have a car that's not leased. If it's in your name, this data will automatically come from the DMV. If this is not in your name, for example, you are using your friend's car and you have not considered it necessary to make a sale or purchase transaction, you must mark it as movable property that is at your disposal. That's one thing. The other side is what Mr Talvik pointed out. I think we're done with the business register, but there are connections and organizations whose data may not come up. There are even such semi-formal connections. Legislator says you should write down if you're on board or on board. That's why you always have to look at everything in detail, which is written, and go through this row-by-row. The idea of Valdo Randpere is particularly highlighted here. A person's memory is, say, jumpy. You often think you have something firmly in mind, but you just forget to put it in that declaration. If you could look at your previous declaration of interests, you could transfer these data. If you don't have that responsibility or you don't belong to that organization anymore, you don't have to do it, but at least you'll see that you've mentioned it in the previous declaration. These are the two main things. We believe too much in technological progress, and we think that all data will come automatically, but then something will be left unchecked. In my own right, what is to be ashamed of is that I have even fulfilled these declarations several times. There's still a mistake coming in, isn't there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U58	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Andres Anvelt! Does this draft law create the situation that those who are obliged to comply with declarations of interest will be completely transparent? Or are there other aspects that this bill does not understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U60	Thank you. The principle has always been the same. We have moved towards maximum disclosure through the new anti-corruption law, without violating the privacy of the individual. It is clear privacy issues that concern loved ones, for example, their home address. While we note the number of the property, it is possible to identify the address on the website of the Land Board. This does not mean, however, that it is a person's place of residence, as there may be more properties. There's no total privacy in society anyway. We were arguing about disclosure in the Commission, and there is still such a debate in society. For example, we know that in some European countries, all people's revenues are essentially public, because tax revenues are public, i.e. how much taxes have been paid is public. Another possibility is that the revenues of public officials, for example, are fully transparent. The third option is that the revenue from the service is transparent. It is easy for members of the Riigikogu, this income is stated in the law. We can get most of the officials' data from the Internet. We're arguing about it. In one way, many of the colleagues I have spoken to have nothing against it. It would be easier to fill in the declaration if all the declared revenue existed there. For example, apart from the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, there is some kind of dividend income that is not a problem. Very many have royalties, fees for some kind of pedagogical activity, etc. It doesn't look like a problem, so let's get the data together. This amount exists, these data go into the declaration and it calculates, for example, the three-month social tax rate. Now that's getting a little complicated. In preparation for the second reading in the committee, we will discuss whether we will leave some permanent number, which is the salary of a simple member of the Riigikogu, or put some other number there. In general, however, this debate about the declaration of interests is somewhat marked in society. It is under discussion how much we disclose our own revenues, how much it harms us or how much it improves the transparency of society and facilitates social control. I think that in matters such as corruption, apart from law enforcement, social control plays a very important role.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U61	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U62	Thank you! Honourable waitress! Was the connection between the various registers also discussed at the meeting of the Commission? I recall the previous composition of my colleague Aivar Riisalu, who was very concerned because the cars on the register of the newcomers, which he had to remind himself all the time, were not in the DMC's register at the time. Was there any debate on which registers would still need to be completed and what should be changed so that nothing would accidentally be left out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U63	Thank you. That's an eternal question. On the other hand, we are saying that we are a very advanced e-state, on the other hand we see that this does not only concern a declaration of interests; only recently did we also have this question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where the representative of the Free Party tabled a very good amendment in itself, but we had to state that the state is not technically prepared to do so, that a person must give again and again the data that he has already produced once. The trend towards reducing it is very right. However, we have started our e-nationalisation from different starting positions and platforms are often slightly different. This very big problem you mentioned was not only about the good former colleague Aivar Riisalu, but also about many others. I remember very well that in the previous Riigikogu, the so-called old and new register of the car register centre was discussed in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. Who remembers history, it knows that there was a register of blue technical passports and a register of green technical passports. The blue technical passports that came with the restoration of independence, if you remember, were in one register and green, more modern, were in the other. Some people who collected older techniques, such as drones, had cars registered, but these data did not run into the new DMV. We had this question under discussion two years ago. If I'm not mistaken, the Road Administration has solved this problem, both DMV registers have found a safe home and are available to all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U64	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U65	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I basically agree with your answer to my previous question that it really is a more preventive effect. I also agree that the heads of institutions must make prudent decisions. But I see that the institutions are simply of such a different nature and budget. For example, a branch of Ruhnu rural municipality may have the same name or similar work as a subsidiary of Tallinn City in financial terms, perhaps even millions of times smaller. Ruhnu lives about 60 people. If it is left to the head of the institution alone, there may also be a desire not to require this declaration from certain people because there is a small relationship between them. Perhaps there should be some financial limits, for example, on the basis of the budget. The same is true of state-owned enterprises. Where the risk of corruption is high, because the amounts are simply so much higher, there could be some level of financial support which, from the point of view, and how far these declarations must go within the organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U66	Yes, the question, who, how and what, was with the new version of this law, which was under discussion during the previous Riigikogu, at all times. Paragraph 13, which refers to the presentation and administration of a declaration, is a certain compromise. It's not exactly what you said. If we take an official of a municipality or city government, this decision is not his direct manager's, this decision is, just in case, I checked quickly over the council of the municipality, so it is actually a political decision. If, for example, we are talking about a state company, that is where the Minister will establish the procedure. The Minister will also take some political responsibility if he establishes this list. I quote the law: '... an official body governed by public law, where such an obligation is imposed by the Minister supervising the legal person governed by public law or by the Council of a legal person governed by public law or by a body comparable to it. " The responsibility must be very clear about how the responsibility is delegated. If I'm not mistaken, I think Marek Helm has said that only he will declare in his house, but he has also assumed responsibility for internal control. If there's trouble, there's some kind of revelation or something like that, he's actually taking responsibility for what I say, and he has to explain whether his decision was right or whether he should have shared that responsibility and given it to a wider circle, for example. Not all things in today's complicated world can be recorded in the law. We must be able and able to share responsibility between the institutions. In such a case, people feel that their daily thinking depends on whether or not an organisation plays its public role. I personally think that the list in § 13 is quite exhaustive. The second question is, yes, financial constraints. Financial constraints are not an indicator, I think. I don't agree very much with you. It's like, in one place, it's a bribe that makes your eyes shine, 100 euros, but someone's gonna make your eyes shine, which is 100,000 euros. In fact, any bribe is bad. Anyone who is willing to take 100 euros will also take 100,000, and whoever takes 100,000 will take, perhaps with a sulking face, even 100 euros at the end of the day. So the financial constraint isn't right. The fundamental restriction is due to responsibility, I think, and how broad this field of responsibility is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U67	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U68	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! The anti-corruption law has a very noble purpose. To sum it up in a single sentence, it sounds like: prevention of possible corruption. This law has been in force for some time now. What is your subjective opinion on whether the system of declarations has justified itself and works?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U69	That's a good question, by the way! When you think about whether it has justified itself and how it works, we all have the opportunity to go into that environment and see how many people have taken an interest in our declarations, because there is a mark behind it. You can see who has done something there, for example, what journalists have done. I watch once a year. I don't think anyone's been interested since the special committee. But that's one side of it. There are many ways to evaluate. When it comes to national bureaucracy, if we did not have this preventive system, for example, we would have taken a political decision to end it, to cancel it, because it makes no sense, etc., then, believe me, in a year's time, if there was a corruption index, we would have fallen there, I guess, ten shearings. If you are responsible for such institutions, such as GRECO, it is known that this is the first question. Another reason why our position in this table does not become more positive (this table was probably published yesterday) is that very many countries that come to question us want to know why we do not have a job that deals with this subject. They want to increase national bureaucracy. We have always categorically opposed it because it makes no sense. I think that's the right approach. The other side of this coin has been that we do all this as openly as possible and that the data is available to everyone. The sanction shall be imposed when the person has not considered it necessary to declare. Let's get started on the fact that he didn't think it was necessary, he feels like he's above it. If he's a politician, it gives him a certain political color, if he's an official, then the question arises of his loyalty as to why he doesn't want to do it. He can't punish you. That is why my point, which unfortunately I was unable to implement as Minister of Justice, was on the table. These legislative changes fell out of the procedure because the previous composition of the Riigikogu failed to process them. But it was the same subject, the people who are legally obliged to declare, but who are not. I read it somewhere, but I don't remember exactly if it was 100 or even 200. Let's say there's less than 10%, 5%, so this number is pretty high. If a person has failed to fulfil this obligation because of either ignorance, sloppyness, or superiority, his or her name should appear on a website. It is clear that even our proudly acting and opinion-giving NGOs, who monitor the transparency of the state as a civil society, cannot review the data of all 3,000 people. Rather, it should be the country's own step that, if not declared by that date, these names will be placed on page corruption.ee. This, in my opinion, is even more effective than a fine of EUR 30. The next time you think twice before you press the Delete button or you don't press a button at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U70	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U71	Thank you. Good Andres! Sometimes even a seemingly simple bill needs to be dealt with thoroughly and for a long time. That's the context I'm asking. As a person who has never worked in law enforcement or investigative bodies, I sometimes find myself thinking, for example, by filling in a visa form asking if I intend to commit a terrorist offence in this country or to participate in the financing of a criminal organisation, whether the person who is planning something so insidious is really so honest at the time of filling out the form that he is writing down all his evil plans. Why am I saying this? I want to know how many of the corruption crimes you've investigated have come to light, according to you, from the fact that people have declared or failed to declare something. How much do these declarations actually contribute to eradicating corruption or detecting errors against corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U72	Thank you. That's an eternal question. The question of pragmatism arises here, why do we do it if it does not catch anyone? I'm not. I remember, by memory, saying that individual proceedings were initiated on the basis of declarations of economic interest. For example, I think the mayor of Tallinn was under the procedure because he had not subscribed to a loan, and there were other things from here to there. In the previous Riigikogu we were on the verge of prosecuting our good colleague Juku-Kalle Raidi, as they say, even though he fulfilled his obligation. Since he was on a business trip, he just missed it in time. There may have been isolated cases, but this is not the content of the problem. I think that in the case of visas, too, no country, nor its Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Internal Affairs, nor the Security Organisation, nor the police, have the hope of catching anyone with them. Some people could be diagnosed if they wrote that they were going to enter the country in order to provide prostitution services, I remember, in the American visa form there was once such a question, or to commit a terrorist act. I think he should get medical services in this country. But these questions, especially in the case of a declaration of interests, show a person's willingness to take public responsibility, to show his loyalty as a public authority. Once I've recorded my interests and the risks of conflict of interest, it's very difficult to attack me after that. The other thing is, if I haven't written down the basics. After all, we remember very well when during the previous term (it must have been during the previous term) Äripäev's journalists chased the chairman of the committee down the yard and asked whether he had been resting in Spain and driving a car and whether it belonged to this or to another company. To some extent, this incident led to the initiation of a new law, so we are now giving a person the opportunity to record such things. If he spends two months in a friend's cabin in the summer, whether in the Canary Islands or in the Võsu, he'll write it down and everyone will be happy. Once again, we know that the legitimate public interest in a democratic country is social control over the transparency of the public authority in its activities. If he declares everything he needs, no one can blame him for doing something hidden and there are some deep interests behind it. Rather, the purpose of this law is preventive, not to catch someone somewhere. I would like to emphasise once again that even in the current version of the law, there is no sanction for misreporting or failure to provide data that existed in the old administrative infringement procedure. It makes it very clear that we will give control to the public and have law enforcement bodies investigating it from the hidden side. I imagine the law enforcement authorities are looking at these declarations, they have that right. I would also like to point out that if the law enforcement body looks at your declaration at the Tax and Customs Board, you will not see any further mention of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U73	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U74	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Obviously, the Coalition has not yet reached an agreement on the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act and therefore a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs cannot begin. It has been agreed, as we know, that it should start 15 minutes after the end of the sitting. Members of the coalition are constantly added to the hall, who have not followed very closely the handling of such a seemingly simple draft from the beginning. So if it doesn't bother you much, maybe you'll start explaining this bill all over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U75	Thank you. If you really want to, of course I can. The purpose of this bill is to simplify the execution of declarations in the same way and to improve the quality of the data contained in it in order to reduce the number of fingers. When I prepared my first reading in the Commission, I saw that this interest was much wider. We'd like to bring a lot more stuff here. I very much like the Valdo Randper principle that people could also look at the declarations of previous years and the declaration of the previous year in order to simplify the declaration. But at the same time, whether there is a Commission or a negotiation, I dare tell you from my experience, a good colleague, that the anti-corruption law, such as its previous version, of which I have introduced both the rapporteur and the minister here before you during the previous term, and which fell out of the procedure, is of great interest. Why? Because people, especially us, who are very, very public figures and politicians, are embarrassed, for example, when someone goes to the website of declarations of interest and starts to see why, for example, Andres Anvelt has found this sort of thing about me, I am not ashamed to say it within one day of submitting three declarations. Why have I done this? I hurriedly snapped and then made a new declaration, but I kept the old one. The observer, if he is a fantasy person, says that Anvelt has made some deals three times a day, is still a very active person, his economic situation has changed so quickly within one day that he has gone bankrupt, then he has gone to the top of success, and so on. Because of this type of thing, many members of the public have had a very broad interest in the subject. That's another thing. Next to this, the same problem that has been with the other drafts sparkles quietly all the time. This concerns the functioning of the e-state. Through the same draft, we are best able to feel whether the e-state works well or whether it is somehow in a passive state, whether all data is available for cross-use. If we in this Chamber see that there are problems here, we will certainly respond much more effectively than if this problem were to concern some other law, the pain and concern of which may be with us, but is not directly, as they say, a pinch away from the computer screen. I therefore hope that the same principle, which we also declared in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, should not be provided again and again by the people of Estonia, once they have already submitted them to the state, is a goal and hence savings. I think that, therefore, when preparing for the second reading of this draft, amendments will certainly also be tabled. I call on all of you to recall the last session of declaration of interests, given that there will be a new one right now after May, nothing is so far away, and we want to implement the amendments to this law by 1 May. If there are any technical solutions or suggestions, you are all welcome to present them so that we can make this environment as up-to-date, convenient and accessible as possible to people and we can remove question marks on many sentences.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U76	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I agree with my fellow Members, Ammas and Mikser. This is a very important and important draft, which cannot be dealt with by pluh-plauh. That is what needs to be discussed, because the ambassadors need to know before they press one or the other button, what this bill really is. But my question is practical. You can't write it into the law, of course, but maybe you had it on the committee, and if you didn't, maybe you can tell me right now. As a member of the ERR Council, I had to make a separate declaration of interests. I had to write in Excel's table who I am, who my mother is, what companies she's involved with, and what companies she's not involved with, I had to write about my brother, my sister was asked about, my husband was asked what kind of companies were involved, etc. Why do these declarations have to be made many times? Couldn't this information be taken from the already existing declaration of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U78	Thank you. That is, frankly, very big news for me. In my opinion, the new law, unlike the old one, assumes that the register is uniform. The old principle was that declarations of economic interests were submitted to all the organisations with which the person had any contact, because there was a declaration holder everywhere. Now there are no more declarations. In this sense, of course, it is one of the tax and customs authorities. If the declaration indicates all its interests, then all its interests are reflected. I'm sure I'll put the question behind you. The aim of the anti-corruption law is to reduce national bureaucracy. What you said was completely contrary to that principle. There must certainly not be such a situation, and I do not think so. In accordance with paragraph 12 (2), you will submit a declaration by 31 May. Yeah, sure, there's one more thing. In the meantime, if you've accepted a position that changes your interests, then, yes, you have to make a new declaration. But you won't have two declarations. You are not presenting this new declaration to them, you are adding that you have joined the ERR Council, for example. That's probably what you have to do, yeah. Not even probably, but definitely. You need to complete the existing declaration, or, rather, because it is not possible to supplement it, it will simply be a new one. This is where it turns out that you should have the chance that the old declaration will come to your screen and you will make your changes there. That is certainly what we are talking about in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U79	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I look at the item 'Contents of the draft and comparative analysis', which states that income subject to social tax received in the post is currently declared as a single amount and added to the separate declaration line. Now they want to change it. I think this is entirely appropriate. I'd like to know what you think. I am sure you also discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I am also thinking about the units of voluntary funded pension. Every time I have completed my tax return, I have wondered what it adds when we look at the anti-corruption law and then at the declaration. Please explain why!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U81	Thank you. Firstly, the transition to a specific amount is due to the objective of simplifying the declaration. This EUR 4000 is set here in accordance with another law. Perhaps this is not the most appropriate, but it has been brought here from the Penal Code as a threshold for significant damage. What caused the problem? Again, one thing is pay. It's a social tax. Incomes can have a different character. It caused a lot of problems. People calculated differently, they were in trouble with it. For this reason, the draft is now that we are bringing it in as one sum. We are still debating in the Commission, in my opinion, whether this should be one sum. As I noted in my introductory speech, there may be a problem with one sum that the value of this sum in time and space, as they say, will change. Although, yes, there are parallels to other laws. In this sense, I do not see a very big problem here, because we also do not foresee any hyperinflation or deflation, so that this EUR 4 000 becomes either an extremely large amount or a sum that is meaninglessly small. If this happens, we're gonna have to review all these laws anyway. As far as the funded pension is concerned, with this bill, these things go out of the law. Indeed, a retirement pension is not an unusual activity in this sense, which could in any way assess a person's hidden or other interests. For this purpose, there are other securities the formation or disappearance of which may be related to other interests. But pension shares are actually our routine vital interest. Their indication in the declaration does not create any tension either to the inspector or to the person familiar with the declaration, which poses difficulties only to the person making the declaration. If all these K2, K3, V3s and others are taken out of the bank, it is clear that they are constantly changing and can also be controlled from other sources. I therefore hope that the Commission will go along well with this amendment and that this concern will be lost by 1 May to all those who make the declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U82	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U83	Thank you, Mr President. A very honored waitress! First of all, as a reply to Mr Andres Ammas, I don't see much of the coalition ambassadors in this hall right now, but there are few. But, of course, there are three times as many as opposition ambassadors. My question is substantive. I would like to debate once again that one important keyword is'simplify'. Would the honourable rapporteur still explain to me how it can be interpreted as simplifying that, if, according to the current regulation, revenue from ancillary activities is to be declared only for the previous year, the new version requires this to be done both for the previous year and for the year of the declaration? This means, in fact, that data must be provided twice. The second question concerns the fact that, if I remember correctly, the declaration of financial interests also needs to include bank account numbers. Is that justified? To be honest, I don't even remember where all those bank accounts are. Can't they be taken electronically?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U84	Thank you. I'll start at the back. As far as bank account numbers are concerned, there are some problems with getting them automatically, because, once again, the Tax and Customs Board does not have this information. We are talking about the data that the Tax and Customs Board has in hand. There are also some other bank secrecy rules. That is why it is man's duty to indicate bank accounts, that they are not known to the state, and, in the case of mere mortals, we do not need to know. But if you're under political and public responsibility, I don't see anything too much about a person having this review and sharing it. If, after that, it turns out again that this person and this person have a little bit of a bank account in Switzerland, there are two approaches to the investigation. If he's marked it in the declaration, and it's quite legitimate for him, believe me, the interest in it is much less. He says yes, I have this account, he's written it down, and no one has a problem with it. If he's hiding it, he's not loyal, it shows his desire to hide something, he's trying to hide his so-called background or relationship, and it gives him much more suspicion. And that is, to some extent, a public punishment that he has not acted honestly, whether intentionally or unintentionally. Self - control is also important, and it certainly creates a picture of a person. That's what I'm in favour of. As far as dividend income is concerned, I understand what you meant, the point of this amendment is, in fact, that, apart from last year's income, the revenue actually received would be seen because the Tax and Customs Board does not have such a summary in the middle of the year. I do not have a firm position here at the moment, we can really discuss it in the Commission and raise this issue at second reading. I don't see any immediate need for this, but maybe I'm missing something right now on this remote. So this is the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U85	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U86	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I have a question in the declaration of interests that I have still not understood. An official must also declare his shares, holdings and securities. After all, an official can also engage in business and make a company, invest or put those shares, holdings and assets in the company. In that case, it shall declare only part of the company X and part of it, but there may be hundreds of shares, participations in any amount and different types of securities. At the same time, when an official declares as a private individual, he must count all these items. There's a mismatch. Is this supposed to be the case, and what is the point of declaring this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U87	Thank you. When we talk about the idea of declaring, I have repeatedly said today from this remote control that the idea is public, the idea is social control. Its idea is also to declare, in a democratic country, the wish of the political leadership, executive and judicial authorities to show that they are not hiding anything, that they are independent in the exercise of state authority, which is their main task. That's the point. The point is definitely not, I stress, exposing someone. It's more the law enforcement authorities that deal with exposure. However, once again, it provides an opportunity, through public scrutiny, to see, for example, whether a person's declaration matches reality. Of course, here's the risk, as you say, right there. If the content of the declaration is confusing at some point, vague, a person may make a mistake and write too little. If you write too much, nobody's gonna tease you for it, but if you write too little, you might wonder why you did it. It is always very difficult for politicians, especially, to explain, and nobody believes that anything was done out of ignorance. They'll think you're stupid, and so on. I will not enter directly, my good colleague, into the content of your detailed question, because then I should analyse this subject in a bit more detail. We did not talk about this directly in the Commission. In principle, I dare tell you that, as an official, the declarant, with the exception of within the meaning of the Securities and Markets Act, must still confirm the holding in the company, as well as the holding in a company where the official's holding is at least one tenth. Actually, this is a step, let's say, for daughter-daughter companies. More detailed explanations, which the legislator has meant by this in the previous composition, I recommend that you read on the website www.corruption.ee, where there is talk of declaring interests. There's a pretty good manual on how to fill out a declaration so that the meaning of the law is followed. Everything is explained and described in detail and the guide is constantly being completed. It's a so-called live instruction to ask questions. Frequently asked questions are analysed at the Ministry of Justice, and then answers are also put up, which is still meant by one thing or another. I therefore also call for my feedback. But once again: since this bill is on our table today, let us be active and propose amendments. In the Commission, we are happy to discuss how to make the same declaration of interests more user-friendly, including those who are interested from outside, who appreciate our actions, for example, through the same environment, see how we are prepared to declare our interests, and draw any conclusions from it. I think most of us are interested in such cooperation, because honesty is still a very high value and it is important for all of us to declare this value.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U88	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U89	Thank you. I apologize to all those who want to move on to their daily routine, to the administration of the partnership law! This is an important issue, but certainly the fight against corruption is also an extremely important issue. Some time ago, when we were still filling out these declarations in written form, it was often the case that the declaration asked, for example, for the same pension units, for some value that had to be used to look for, for example, the Internet Bank site, because it was a time-changing value. And then it turned out that the value of an Internet bank or a bank with that name was not recognised at all. They have some completely different terms about these things. There was much to be understood. The declaration still asks for the first name and last name, not for what you are called. Have such misleading and ambiguous issues been reduced in the new version of the law as well as in electronic declarations? Is there less comprehension in many ways where a person may not understand what is being asked of him?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U90	Thank you. That's what they're trying to do. As far as pension holdings are concerned, it is really complicated and, on the other hand, unpleasant news can also be obtained. In the last five or six years, when you click on the bank and see that the value of these shares has fallen again, it has been one of those moments of depression. There's been a little bit of a positive in recent years, but very, very little. We have been discussing in the Commission that this third pillar should not be there. In itself, the current law states that even units of compulsory funded pension do not need to be registered in a declaration; now the issue of units of voluntary funded pension is also under discussion. I agree with the questioner. I think that the funded pension is not an adequate indicator of people's interests; we all have an interest in living out of retirement, but it is not comparable to the operations we do every day on the securities market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U91	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U92	Thank you very much. Good waitress! We have focused very much on the problems of the so-called tube, i.e. the performers, in the debates. That's understandable. I think I've been filling out that declaration for decades. My question is directed at the other end of the tube. You mentioned publicity, general interest, etc. In the case of an electronic declaration, you can see who is interested in my data. And unfortunately, the public doesn't oppose it, and I see three or four well-meaning journalists every year looking at my data, and that's it. Has there been any analysis of this public subject, could anything be improved at this end? We're doing a hell of a job, and we're working on this data set, but for who?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U93	Thank you. I think that this generalisation should be made by our Special Committee against Corruption. We could see a report on how people have fulfilled their obligation. If I am not mistaken, 5 to 6% of those who have to submit a declaration have not done so for any reason, either ignorance or involuntaryity, and that is not fair to those who fulfil their obligation. However, there are no sanctions. One thing that would contribute to public disclosure of whether this idea should be included in the text of the law, which we are still discussing in the Commission, is the publication of names of people who have failed to fulfil their obligation. It would be that when the heat is over, you would see that they and they have not fulfilled their declarant's obligation. It gives some kind of picture of people's loyalty and makes them fulfil the obligation that may at first glance be asked what it is necessary for. I would like to emphasise once again: this is what is needed in order for such a speechless debate to work with the public, where we, the declarants, as a sign of goodwill, disclose our various interests and the other side has the opportunity to control it. Indirectly, it is also in the interests of declareers themselves, active people have the opportunity to show that they are active in several areas, they are not hiding it, and that is good. As far as this interest is concerned, I am very jealous, my dear colleague, that your declaration has been followed by three or four well-meaning journalists. I don't have one. I call for it to be done! But the opportunity itself was created. I think the Special Anti-Corruption Commission could do some sort of generalisation, because they're the chief administrator, the Justice Department, too. They could make such a generalisation of how many declarations have been viewed at all. Not in the name that Matit has been viewed 1,000 times, and Anvelt 1001 times, it doesn't make any sense. To do so in general, for example, that members of the Riigikogu have been viewed so much, ministers so much, and to generalise also those who are audiences. We do not want to see whether the journalist of the Estonian Päevaleht, Urmas Jaagant, has seen it, it does not matter. But, for example, you could see that Eesti Päevaleht has looked so much and so much. It would really be necessary to see how the speechless debate between society, the political and also executive authorities operates due to conflicts of interest. I hope that members of the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption have now remained in this Chamber, who could set up this issue in the Commission. I don't think it's a question of taking out such a database through the Ministry of Justice or through the Tax and Customs Board, who manages this database.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U94	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U95	We have asked questions at length and in detail here and discussed this draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act. As a minor in this area, I honestly admit that there are so many details and it is difficult to orientate what this bill will ultimately improve. Can you briefly explain the most important differences between the old law and the renewed law if we really adopt it? What makes this newer one better?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U96	Thank you. It is a very important question in this sense that there must be an understanding of what the purpose of the amendment is. The aim is not to change the general attitude or content of the anti-corruption law adopted last year. The official remains an official, the declaration remains a declaration. The procedure for submitting declarations shall remain the same. The question is rather that we went back one or two years to a completely new principle of making declarations. I would like to emphasise this once again: one hundred percent public opinion on the declarants. The second point is that everything is happening in Estonia's usual e-environment, i.e. the Estonian Tax and Customs Board keeps this register and the declaration is pre-filled. I remember that, as soon as the law came into force, even then Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, if I am not mistaken, expressed the opinion that some points are incomprehensible, that why data is asked that the state should have, and that databases are not collapsing. And in order to remedy all the major shortcomings that have now arisen, this bill has been put into effect. For the first time, I rushed into the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last year as Minister of Justice. There we had very serious disputes, which we could not argue about, and the bill unfortunately fell out of the procedure due to the expiry of the mandate of the previous Riigikogu. In essence, these issues were already on the table and we went beyond the content of the draft at the time. We were arguing about the undisputed right of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to declare cars, for example, and all that. So, in general, we did not complete the draft at the time, and now we are, to some extent, back to the same thing and solve the technical problems that have arisen. So the same thing on the agenda is that a person must have a very clear understanding of the extent to which he or she must start bringing out benefits. In the current law, this construction is very complex. A person must take his or her income from the previous year and deduct from it any income which does not concern him or her as an official who is outside the income obtained as an official. I always look at myself, I have a lot of royalties, fees for pedagogical work. In total, these amounts are not large, but they are very different. In order to get to the official's income, I have to do complicated operations, and something may be overlooked again. Basically, you have to divide by the number of months, multiply, and so on, to get to some amount. That is why a solution has now been reached that we are setting a specific amount of EUR 4000 currently proposed. What is more than that must be declared if you receive a discount or give a discount. That's one thing. By the way, in the Commission we discussed whether this amount of 4000 should be quantified or whether it should be linked to another law, such as the ranking of senior civil servants. There was also the opinion that this could then be the salary of a simple member of the Riigikogu. One very important point is that the declaration must also contain information on the income from the tax return received during the calendar year preceding the year in which the declaration was made and the dividend income paid to the declarant in Estonia and abroad during the same period. This too was confusing because it is slightly different from the normal tax return. In addition, there are other changes concerning income generated outside the duties of a member of the management or control body of a legal person, as well as other ancillary activities related to the acquisition of income, in the capacity of an undertaking or a full member of a partnership or as a member of a management or control body of a legal person. These should also be noted so that there is no confusion. It's a mess right now. There are further technical improvements to the matrimonial property agreement. But I would like to stress that the discussion in the Chamber today, as well as the debates in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, shows that there are a lot of details that may still need to be improved in this very bill. For example, the same thing that I see the previous declarations, and these are the bottom line for me in the preparation of a new one. There have been some pretty interesting ideas in this Chamber, and I think that if we don't clarify our obligations as declarants, then no one else will do it for us. There is now a good opportunity to make declaration more transparent in the same way and at the same time to take advantage of all the opportunities inherent in the e-state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U97	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for a very thorough review. I've been listening here for a long time to the discussion on this subject and I've gotten a lot smarter, but I also had one question. Can you tell us what might result from such an active interest in this topic among members of the Riigikogu? As a former police officer, do you see, perhaps, any danger as to why there is so much interest in this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U99	Thank you. Good colleague! I'm sure this has nothing to do with people often trying to make it look like people aren't here with an honest, clean conscience. My experience, which I have received in this Chamber in a second row, is a completely different story, and I have also confirmed it in every possible way. I would like to stress once again that I have taken the floor in the previous composition on this very draft, as the head of the Special Committee on Corruption, worked very hard in the Commission, given a great deal of input into the law already in force, and also dealt with it as Minister of Justice. What I'm trying to say is that there are still a lot of shortcomings in this technical solution, but we're all going to have to deal with him, all 101 people. There are very many areas where we rely on the expertise of our groupmates, we develop joint opinions on drafts, but the situation is a little different here. Here we all rely on our own expertise, because we ourselves draw up these declarations, we see shortcomings, we know the difficult situations and we ask for advice. This is the interest in how the situation could be better addressed. We also had a very lively discussion in the Commission, and that is perfectly understandable. It must also be borne in mind that no committee here, including the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be able to achieve the best result if you do not all provide input on the problems you have encountered. There has always been a discussion on this issue, and I will go back to history again a little, because I have already fulfilled this declaration of interests in my various positions since the first declaration of economic interests was printed on paper, whether it is necessary at all. Today, I dare say that if there were 30,000 declarations of interests on paper, some of which were still duplicated in different agencies, because a person could work in several places, it was relatively pointless. Why? Because no one could physically control them, they were usually checked for clues. When some kind of violation came out of it, he was justified, but he didn't play such a preventive role in general. However, making a declaration robbed many hours of work. It has never even been calculated that for the first time a paper-based declarationer, if he had no outsider, had no such finger carrier, it took almost half a working day. And if we multiply it by 30,000, imagine what it's going to do and how many trees were cut off to do that so that state officials can fill out their declarations. The proposed new step should, in my opinion, reduce this discussion. I think this declaration makes sense. This needs to be looked at in two respects. Looks like all the data you're messing with, I'm gonna go to one register, another register, and I'm gonna get it all. Yeah, that's it. But this declaration actually expresses the will to show that I am honest with you, I have nothing to hide, all my data is here. To some extent, it is similar to going anywhere to work. If you submit your resume and you are asked for such and such things, but you leave something unchecked and it will be discovered, then the probability of getting a job is much less than if you put some unpleasant thing away and say that it was. You're showing your loyalty. And since we are all working with our taxpayers, indirectly, by bringing parallels, this is, to some extent, our loyalty certificate, which shows that we want to do this work, we are cooperative and open, and we are ready to show our interests as well. Since this discussion concerns all of us personally, there is no cloudy topic here, that is why I think it is a great interest and will always be great. It is a good and positive attitude, not a negative attitude, as if we were trying to hide something through this interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your thorough presentation. Since you have been both the Minister of Justice and the head of the Corruption Commission, you are really very, very good at the subject. I think that's one of the reasons why people ask you so much. But every law has both positive and negative effects. And when I look at paragraph 6 of the explanatory memorandum on the effects of the Act, it states that information on the effects of the implementation of paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of the draft is found in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act initiated on 17 November 2014 by the Government of the Republic. Did you discuss in the Commission what positive and also negative effects might still result from the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U101	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U102	Thank you. I think that any improvement in the law that already works can only have a positive effect. If he works, no one will change him to increase the negative effects. In this case, I would like to emphasise this once again, the amendments are of a technical nature and concern the better functioning of the environment for declarations of interest, clearer functioning, uniform understanding and the prevention of potential errors in the execution of the declaration. If it's not positive, what else can be positive? And once again, I think that, in cooperation with all of you, we can bring more positive nuances here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U103	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, contrary to Lauri Luige, ask whether an almost empty hall will give you confirmation that there are no problems with corruption, or rather the opposite. Secondly, I still dare to debate the issue of bank accounts. I seriously doubt the feasibility of mentioning them. It is not much to do, but as your Minister of Justice and one of the most respected police leaders, you will know that if a police detective has a legitimate interest in someone's income, he will hardly put a declaration of financial interests on the table to see where the bank accounts of the declarant are and then ask for them. Maybe a bank account would make sense if I had to show you how much money I have in that account. But just write that account down there, and even more if I don't write it down there, does it make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U105	Thank you. Now we reach the origin of our debate. I would like to say that this same declaration is not a procedural material or document of any kind, in this case, of a criminal procedural nature. No charges can be made, no suspicions can be made, no investigative action can be taken to obtain any evidence. Rather, it is an opportunity for us, whether we or some official, who has a duty to declare, to achieve a situation where the declarant knows that he is not being attacked. Let's get started on this. If this account isn't listed anywhere, I'm a lot more of an attack than if it's written, i.e. I'll let you know in advance. This is actually good practice in the Riigikogu, which I have been happy to see. In the previous Riigikogu's Committee on Legal Affairs, for example, some colleagues stated that they do not want to discuss this point because they have or have had certain interests. A person declares it, it's put in the record, and it's known in advance. After that, no one will be able to say anything out of curiosity about the malevolent character or any journalist, because it has been declared. I myself had only recently had an analogous situation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where, when I gave one opinion in a court decision, I discovered that it concerns me not very distant people, that I am aware of the matter, and I withdrew myself. It's the exact same thing, actually it's a parallel. I'm gonna put a bank account number in there, and whether there's anything on it or not, I'm not hiding anything. I am, good taxpayers, before you, as they say, as public and transparent as possible, and I want to cooperate. That's the point of declaring. In fact, if we look at the concept of the law that is currently in force, then, according to it, I stress once again, there are no sanctions. The old Anti-Corruption Act contained very clear sanctions, misrepresentation and failure to provide data was an administrative offence. There isn't one right now. The question is that since the impact of an administrative offence in itself may be less than your statement of maliciousness, let us say, we have chosen this new path, where everything is public and everyone has to make known the things that are prescribed. If they don't, it's their own risk. You can't be punished, but you might want to hide something. So this is actually an endless debate. I would rather stick to the fact that the sign of a transparent, good democratic rule of law is that governance is as transparent as possible. Those who exercise public authority have no problem in giving taxpayers an overview of their personal material situation. There is no need for any such tricks as to make ships with our eastern neighbour of 30 million are the son's and the watches on the hand exceed ten times or a hundred times the annual income. The point is, let's be transparent, life will be easier and more difficult for all of us to attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U106	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question is also in the interest of the verbatim report, because I assume that although there are very few people in the Chamber, our debate is still being monitored. They are monitored through the media and will certainly also be monitored. The question is that if you fill in the declaration as of 31 May, but for example in June-July there will be major changes, either you take out a loan or some liabilities will disappear, what amount and what amount of monthly salary or rate will need to be re-submitted. I understand there's some kind of deadline for it to be submitted. That if you stick to it, you're sure you've been honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U108	Thank you. Of course, you have to read about it by following the law. If I am not mistaken, we are talking about the same amount as the three-fold product of the income subject to social tax received in the post, but I think I owe an answer here. Let's just say that if you change income or other important things change, then yes, you have to make a change. I owe you an answer, which is the limit from which it has to be done. It's definitely listed in § 12 of the law. I've always been very simple. For example, if the situation changes, there is a new car lease, etc., I will make this change immediately, regardless of whether the amount goes too far or not. I will also write down my donations, which come in immediately from the Tax and Customs Board, even though they are not EUR 4 000, but EUR 100, etc. And here I stand before you, pure as a spectacle stone, as one Estonian political classic has said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U109	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Some members of the Riigikogu were required by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to submit a declaration of interests by 16 January of this year. This house was taught to ignore this claim. That's how a mess was planted. As the spokesperson of the declaration of interests, how does it seem to you whether the choice of the Tax and Customs Board to manage the declarations was a good choice or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U111	Thank you. I think it was a very pragmatic choice. I am aware of this confusion, and this problem has now been resolved. Here again there was a number of understanding, which has been a problem with the control of compliance with this law. I think it'll work out in time, because in theory everything is a lot easier than when the MHDs were on paper. The Tax and Customs Board is a very pragmatic solution, since the Tax and Customs Board is most concerned with the data that are recorded in the declaration of interests when cross-referencing its data. The other thing is that the environment is the same for the people who have to comply with these declarations. If we open a declaration of interests, he is right next to the one where there are all kinds of declarations, then technically everyone has a relatively similar level of compliance and these data are the easiest to pass on to this environment. If you look around the country of Estonia, I wouldn't really find any other body that would come into contact with people's incomes and be better suited to carrying out this role. Ultimately, the Tax and Customs Board is actually only offering us a technical environment. They do not carry out supervision; supervision is carried out directly by the public. While they are monitoring the whole operation of the environment and, if necessary, making improvements, changes, but substantive checks, supervision remains in the public domain.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U112	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U113	Thank you. First of all, I have one such remark that as one of the few people in the Chamber, I certainly have not stayed here to gather as much information as possible on how to deal with corruption without getting caught. I'd rather be here to be a law-abiding citizen and do everything right. In this connection, I have this question: does there exist any kind of advisory body in the Riigikogu for beginners like me or any body to go to and ask for advice if I do not quite understand what I am doing right? For example, if I go around the village company in Estonia and I get a gift after the meeting, I don't know, blanket, pillow or sheepskin, is that corruption? Do I have to write it down somewhere? Where does the border run from to make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U114	Thank you. There are two lines: one line that runs in our conscience, and the other one that runs in the law. They often do not overlap. There's a lot of places to get advice from. The first option is always to ask an older colleague. But here the risk must be that an older colleague may have been misguided for years. Another option is to ask the officials of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission, who will also help me with their efforts, at least to help me. The third option, or actually, before you start asking anyone, I suggest you open the page corruption.ee again. The declaration of interest should be accompanied by a manual setting out everything for each point. There are also frequently asked questions somewhere, you might want to look at them first. If I'm not mistaken, there's a phone upstairs on the corruption.ee page that you can use the Justice Department to make an emergency call. All these things together should give a good picture of how to fill in the declaration and, on the other hand, they will also give feedback on where people have the most problems, where the instructions should be improved and perhaps improved, just as we are improving the law today. The environment of declarations has been technically much improved. Today we stand before those things that need legislative intervention. So I recommend that you first examine in detail the material on the website of www.corruption.ee. I think there's a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U115	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U116	Thank you, dear waitress. Corruption is a very broad and interesting issue, especially for politicians. In their fight against this, they send very strong messages to the voters and carry out visible actions by which they can then be chosen. There have been quite a number of variants of the anti-corruption law in Estonia. Just recently, there was a ranking of corruption, a ranking in so-called quotes, where Estonia is actually in a fairly high position in Europe. The declarations have now also changed. The previous option was not electronic and maybe convenient for everyone, now the version is better. But I will ask more philosophically whether this declaration will prevent or prevent corruption, or whether it will help us to come up with something or discover it. Which is more important, either preventiveism or the fact that everything is in the declaration and it is possible to identify corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U117	Thank you. I think preventiveism is definitely important. I stress once again that, as far as I know, no one has ever been caught on the basis of a declaration, and that has never been a goal. Rather, the aim is, I would like to emphasise once again, to show the will to make our interests as transparent as possible and to write it down. It is also important not to underestimate here that possible malicious attacks can be prevented in this way. This is very important, not to think of it as a nuisance, but rather as an opportunity to reduce this annoyance when you have been attacked, for example, by some fiction or sometimes from the surface of seeming opinions or suspicions. It'll give you a chance to protect yourself. As far as the corruption ranking is concerned, I have already said today that if one day we decide here that there is no point in this matter, we will make a political decision that this thing will disappear from our table, we will no longer comply with the declaration of interests, then I am more than sure that in the next corruption ranking we have fallen down. Based on my practice, I dare say that it clearly assesses subjective things, how the media looks at corruption, how people talk to people, how it looks at various preventive measures, how it looks at the independence of research institutions, how it perceives society and everything else, and how it creates an index on its surface. I'm sure there's a lot of things that keep this index in one place. If, for example, some corruption cases emerge at one point, how to take it around the table will always be a discussion, some say that the country is very corrupt, others say that on the contrary, the country is very strong and can eradicate the roots of corruption. I am rather on the other side, and I think that this is the case, because we know countries where apparently there are no corruption cases, but at the same time this country boils down to corruption, that is normal action. It's not objective. Finally, I would like to say that, when calculating corruption, many have certainly had a pain in thinking about why we do not have a separate agency that deals only with corruption. That, for example, if the Latvians have KNAB and there are corruption prevention offices in Eastern Europe, why do we not have an agency to monitor compliance with the declaration of interests? We say that for us this agency is public and transparent, it is the most important factor. When we see that there is corruption, we have a division between the investigative bodies, who investigates what is being investigated, who investigates lower-level corruption, who investigates higher-level corruption. The defense police and the state are working. I think that if there are more corruption facts every year, there is no way that the country will get into an ever deeper pile of corruption as a society. Rather, it shows that our country is getting stronger and that it is achieving a good level of hidden, specialised crime such as corruption when it is discovered. Corruption is a very complicated crime and its detection is not based on a statement. Neither the briber nor the giver goes to the police to write a statement that I took the bribe today. These cases are very rare. So, actually, it's latent crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U118	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U119	Thank you very much. Good waitress! My question may be a little off the subject of the declaration of interests, but still firmly within the framework of the anti-corruption law. Namely, as a member of the Board of the Environmental Investment Centre, I received an e-mail that I had to fill out a table of family members, husband, etc. This comes from the fact that KIK is a public-interest entity, and there is also a reference to anti-corruption law. My question is whether it is the same public and the same anti-corruption law that we are talking about now in the key to the declaration of interests. And if it is the same, would it not be possible to use the data that I regularly make a declaration of interest regarding the fulfilment of such obligations? We're talking about cutting red tape, aren't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U120	Thank you. That's a very good point. I think that if there is any way to prevent such a thing, we should deal with it here before we read the second draft. After all, the point is that we do not double-data. If we have provided data once, they have been provided. With regard to the change in position towards the public, for example, because of the responsibilities associated with some kind of post in this case with the KIC, as I understand it, this probably also leads to a new version of the Declaration of Interests, but all these data on close relatives should technically also run into the Declaration of Interests. It might have something to do with it. It's very difficult to dissect this particular case, but I think that if there's any duplication obligations, it's not just you, it's someone else. Then it makes sense to review this matter and perhaps also to discuss it in committee, until, for example, a specific amendment has been tabled. Once again, the purpose of this bill is not to hide anything. In the media, it has been said that politicians want to hide something again, to make something blurry again. It's not like that. In fact, the aim is firstly to facilitate the understanding of the declaration by both sides, both the viewer and the performer, and secondly to reduce the provision of duplicate data. If there are proposals in this regard, we will welcome them in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U121	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The declaration of interest shall indicate all vehicles and real estate entered in the national registers. For example, an old Mosquitš, worth a hundred and twenty euros, must be declared, which can be purchased for a minimum wage of three pieces this year. At the same time, many thousands of pets, such as horses, meat cattle, who pay EUR, are not required to declare. I would argue that the current declaration practice is not meaningful. How do you feel about not setting a minimum market value for the assets to be declared?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U123	Thank you, that's a good question! This was one of the areas that caused an argument within the previous Riigikogu, and unfortunately this was the result of the dispute that we did not have time to process the draft. There are also counter-arguments here that, in this case, it might get more complicated, because we should start evaluating the market value and the market value is subjective. Do we really need to draw up an evaluation report on one or another of the Mosquichis in order to carry out an asset's declaration of interests? I don't think that makes any sense. And there's a difference between Mosquito and Mosquichi, you put the gold wheels down on him, and his value could be a hundred times greater. I don't think it's a big deal to make. After all, the discussion may continue, although the current law itself states very clearly that movable property may not only be a car, that it may also be something else that a person uses. In this sense, apart from a car and an airplane, other things that are in human use and have great value should be noted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U124	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U125	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have listened to your introduction, and I have been listening to your answers to questions for almost a few hours. I have a very specific question in order to avoid further questions about your introduction. If we read § 2 in the draft law 143, it states that the declaration must contain information on the property and other advantages received by the declarant during the calendar year preceding the submission of the declaration, the market value of which exceeds EUR 4000, and the property and other advantages granted by the declarant, the market value of which exceeds EUR 4000. You mentioned this very briefly, but perhaps you will say once again that no one should have to question it again and that nothing will be overlooked, which is exactly the 4,000 euros that came from. Why is this number not, for example, 3, 5, 6, 8 or 10? Whose mind was this thought born first, and how did I get into this bill on white?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U126	Thank you. That is a good question, and we also discussed it in the Commission, why 4000. Actually, it's a conventional amount. It could be anything, it's where we see this red line over which the risk of corruption increases. This 4000 is also mentioned in the Penal Code, parallel to § 121 of the Penal Code, that the material damage caused by the offence starts at EUR 4000. We have agreed on 4,000 euros, but there were already alternative proposals in the committee, according to which this point could be linked either to the salary of a simple member of the Riigikogu or to the coefficient resulting from the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants. If you have any other proposals, then within ten days, during the period of amendment, they will all be welcome, and in our committee, an even wider debate on this point is justified. Once again, there is no very objective reason behind this 4,000, there are simply parallels to some other laws. But let's talk about it again, and maybe we can find a better solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U127	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U128	Thank you! Good waitress, thank you for your very thorough answer to my previous question. I must admit, I share your view that this declaration is, indeed, primarily preventive in nature. If we look at neighbouring countries here, some may have a more prominent fight against corruption. We know very marked cases from Latvia, where the anti-corruption unit KNAB has effectively exposed corruption, while Latvia is behind Estonia in the so-called ranking of corruption. In this light, a bit more extensive analysis of corruption damage is of interest. How are such declarations legally regulated in other European countries, and what is the general understanding of corruption there? Where would Estonia be compared to others?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U129	Thank you. I'm not ready for quite a comparative analysis, but I can bring out certain signs. Firstly, this practice of declarations of interest is quite widespread in the European Union. Differences are only about who has to make them and who doesn't have to. By moving from the declarations made on paper to such a more innovative solution, we have also taken a step towards Western and Central Europe. The change in doctrines and attitudes in the Eastern European countries in the 1990s was quite painful, and at the beginning, such decisions were also taken with hurrah, which, even apparently, represented the situation better than it really was. Large papers were produced to show how the country is fighting corruption in a fierce way. As we know, in the '90s, perhaps the result of the anti-corruption action was the arrest of traffic police officers and perhaps some other officials, and it seemed that these people had to declare their interests. Today we have grown out of this childhood disease and, rather, declaration has become an example of goodwill and a prerequisite for achieving the objective of transparency in the management of our country and our country's companies. With this, we have taken a step towards such an older European tradition. However, our place in the ranking has not changed. As far as the ranking is concerned, it is not what the laws are, although they are, of course, important, but what matters are people's attitudes, which are, unfortunately, very different. I have to say, unfortunately, that a few years ago, I do not know whether, for example, in recent years, nearly 30% of Estonian people were willing to offer bribes at any time to improve their physical or material situation. In northern European countries, this figure is between 5% and 6%. If we have this 30%, here is the watercourse between Estonia and the Nordic countries, and we need to get over it. We can build any KNAB or other organization, but the attitude is what actually creates the basis of this coefficient or index. That's what we need to work for. Here we come indirectly again to the same declaration of interests, with which we show the good will to be transparent in our actions, everyone can control us, and we have nothing to hide. This is actually one step towards changing the paradigm in society, too, as if corruption were part of life. Unfortunately, corruption can be part of a subculture that is not beneficial for a positive culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U130	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Point 7 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, "Activities of the State and of the local government, expected costs and revenues', states: "In order to implement the draft, the development of the register of declarations of interest is necessary, the costs of which are covered by the register controller at the expense of the available funds of the Ministry of Justice. In addition, it is necessary to specify the guidance material and possible training. ' Here I have a question for you as former Minister of Justice, Head of the Ministry of Justice: what will it do in euros and what will it be at the expense of? Is there anything that will not be done in the Ministry of Justice in the future? What does it ultimately cost in euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U132	Thank you. I cannot tell you what this particular activity costs in euro. I think it will remain within the scope of the expenditure planned for the Ministry's budget. First of all, if the environment for declaring interests had to be activated, the Ministry of Justice ordered it from the Tax and Customs Board. I can't remember exactly, but running this system might have cost you 60,000 or 80,000. And now the Ministry of Justice is paying the usual maintenance fees. If I am not mistaken, last year it was mentioned that it could go entirely to the Tax and Customs Board via the Ministry of Finance. Maybe that's the way it's been done this year, I can't tell you this by heart, but in that case, the Justice Department is ordering the necessary improvements. Believe me, in fact, the costs that we are currently reading out of this explanatory memorandum are certainly not higher than the costs of technical improvements that have been constantly made. We have simply come to the situation that the law needs to be amended to make these improvements. In order for it to be technically more convenient and work faster, the law also needs to be corrected for technical improvements. So I don't know what that amount is, and unfortunately, it hasn't been included in the explanatory statement either, but I'm more than sure that's why there's nothing to be done at the Justice Department. When we are talking about the clarification of guidance material and possible training, it is clear that the specification of guidance material is ongoing. It's kind of a creative process. If you look at the corruption.ee page, there are frequently asked questions on which guidance materials are constantly being developed. Possible training will concern those institutions and people who are in contact with it. The best questioner here would be the chairman of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission, who might be able to tell you which trainings are planned more widely, or at least it will be easier for him to retrieve this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U133	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U134	Thank you. Once again, for the sake of clarity and accuracy, whether some possible contradictions have not come up in the Commission. One of the things I would like to get a more clear view of is point 5 of the list of amendments, which refers to the details of the matrimonial property agreement that are not included in the matrimonial property register. Can there be no contradictions with the adoption of the implementing legislation of the proposed Cohabitation Act? The second question is that if the declaration has to bear all the shares in OÜ and other companies with very precise, embarrassing precision, but as a natural person, I can only declare the land and no one asks if there is a dairy farm with a few thousand cows on this land, for example, is there any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U135	Thank you. Actually, it shouldn't be. If it's your land and there's a cow farm in this country of a few thousand head that somebody has to take, you've been giving someone a discount, and you have to declare it. If this farm is yours, you must declare it. So, ultimately, it's very difficult to get past it. And you still have to assume that you don't have to miss. You're declaring it because no one's blaming you for sneaking by. The second thing about point 5 and the details of the matrimonial property agreement, which are not on the matrimonial property register card, is that the logic is that there should be no extra work. The data on the registry card is important and will automatically be transferred. The idea is to rule out a situation where a person has to panic to search for data, and these are not so important data either. As regards the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, I do think that this problem has been solved there. In itself, this information must have something to do with the property contract, but it is a matter of another bill, and I would not go into that now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U136	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U137	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This is not included in the current draft, but how reasonable is it that in the declaration of interest we must indicate all vehicles that are registered, even if the value of the vehicle is in good case the price of scrap iron?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U138	Thank you. I have just answered a similar question from my colleague, but I am happy to repeat. Once again, this vehicle thing has always been very attractive, and that was also one reason why no solution was reached in the previous Riigikogu and the bill fell out of the procedure. Today we're back to that. The question is what is simpler and understandable. Are we really going to work hard to fill out the declaration and to take some kind of assessment report on every item, car or other motor vehicle, because what else do we evaluate it for? This is how we make it legally difficult. If we already have it almost turned into scrap metal, but the vehicle in the register somewhere under the shed, because it may be emotionally important to us, and its data runs from the register with a declaration of interest, I think they'll run. It would be much more difficult to assess whether the value of the car is this or different. We know that the emotional value of old cars can be greater than the material value and the revenue from its sale. So, in my opinion, the aim has been to make declaration as simple as possible, but political will is always expressed on all these issues. My suggestion to the large hall is that one member of the Riigikogu should want to send out a message that the Riigikogu decided not to declare vehicles. Believe me, we'd have quite a few guests here who want to insist on what they won't declare. So let's rather take it positive, let's let the technology be delivered, or the databases will be in cross-communication with each other, and provide answers to the questions the examiner wants to see.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U139	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U140	Thank you. The second question concerns the declaration itself. As the explanatory memorandum to the draft states, the aim of the law is to correct the places that have received constructive criticism in the declaration. Let me get this straight. If we start filling out a declaration of interest this year, it will be properly pre-filled, and we will no longer have to look for the data from somewhere to be refed? Is it that everything the country knows is in the declaration and we can really confirm it with a few clicks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U141	Thank you. This is a very important task in preparing for the second reading of this draft. I cannot say for sure today that everything is going to automatically work like this, that it does not have to intervene manually at all. I think you have to get involved manually anyway, but the less the better. I recommend that all of them, even after the data is all downloaded and entered automatically, still pass them from the dot-point, because anyone can make a mistake. For example, there is one thing that some obligations run straight down, but not everyone may run, for example, car leasing data does not come directly, because the state has no overview of them. The state has an overview of the housing loan via the Tax and Customs Board. Why? That's because there's going to be a refund. If we fill out a tax return through the bank, then we will press, if I am not mistaken, a button with which the data will go to the Tax and Customs Board, who will then also use it to declare interests. In the case of cars, ships and aircraft, this is not an option; these data must be manually installed anyway, because otherwise we would be crossing the borders of such a public interest. And if public authorities, such as law enforcement authorities, want to get information about people's obligations, they will anyway search separately. If we ever come to such a stage, we will reach the cook agreement in this Chamber and sign the so-called positive credit register, if the state also has all the information on commitments, then perhaps this issue will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U142	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U143	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I acknowledge that you have been very specific and rather laconic in your answers, but I am still asking you to find more time and answer my question very thoroughly. Having now listened to these questions, which have been very much, do you not have the conviction that this draft law is still not quite ripe for discussion in this large Chamber and should perhaps be rejected at first reading? What's your opinion now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U144	Thank you. Respecting today, yesterday and tomorrow's Riigikogu and respecting the government that is sending us drafts, I dare say that no law is quite ripe until the President has signalled with a hammer at third reading. Therefore, at first reading, where this bill is today, he has come to such a situation that he is like a dough that needs to be put in the oven to start cooking him. And he will be more mature if we all contribute together for second reading here, because it concerns, I would like to emphasise once again, all 101 parliamentarians, plus almost 3,000 other representatives of the local authorities. So let's make it as good a product as possible that can be presented to the public and that is convenient for us to use as much as possible. Therefore, I certainly do not agree with the view that the draft law should be rejected. Rather, he must be sent to second reading, made as much changes as possible and accepted as such, so that on 1 May, when 3,000 good Estonian people begin to declare themselves, the declarants begin to fulfil their obligations, it would be as convenient as possible for them and a declaration for the inspectors, as understandable to the public as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U145	Thank you. Now the questions are over. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. That is what we need to vote on. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the working time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, 9 against, no abstentions. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Honourable Riigikogu! Negotiations should now follow, as the Rules of Procedure Act requires. The Rules of Procedure Act also gives the President certain rights. The manager's interest is that the work of the Riigikogu's plenary work will go well, not only during this week, but also during the next working week. For this to happen, the work of the committees must go well, so I will take the chairman's break for 30 minutes. We'll proceed at 1:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U146	Let's get back to the hearing and start the negotiations. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy few colleagues left in the Chamber! As a young MP, I'm amazed at what's going on in this hall. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am very well aware of the draft 143. Mr Anvelt has now had to answer the questions raised here for three hours, the only thought of which is to point out time. You all know what the point is. The point is, while we're sitting here, there's a wringing of the hands of Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the IRL at the Stenbock House, where Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas and also the head of the Soccer who, by now, from 12 o'clock has come to this house. The only point is to make a reference to the time, because 15 minutes after the big meeting of the Chamber, a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs should begin to discuss the fate of the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. The previous law was passed in vassals and in secrecy, over the knife, the lame, now trying to put into practice the lame daughter of this lame law. As a young ambassador, I think that there should be no play in this Chamber, but a direct talk about what the point of this is. It is not about the fact that Bill 143 is so sexy, so important, which is why he needs to be discussed here for three hours in a row, but it is about a covert operation to see if he succeeds in breaking Margus Tsahkna, the head of the IRL. I don't have the exact details of Stenbock's house right now, but I get it, that thing goes there, and we're just taking time. I don't think that's what we're supposed to be here for. We should be clear and clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U148	On behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U149	President-in-Office of the Council. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U150	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U151	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't come here to hang out. I came here to talk about a declaration of interest, corruption and some of my doubts and reservations about it. I remember that before I applied for and became a member of the Riigikogu, I was appointed to the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and had to fill out a declaration of financial interests. Since I had done a similar thing before as a member of the Tallinn City Council, I wondered why I had to fill out two pieces and two more on paper. No one ever compared them, I could have written anything there, nobody really looked at them. Then I came to the Riigikogu and found out that I had to fill out more or less three declarations because the Tallinn Council had to fill it out several more years afterwards and Eesti Pank wanted to do so. At some point it was said that okay, the Riigikogu is the keeper of your declaration of economic interests and everyone else receives this information from the Riigikogu. So it worked out so that the Riigikogu was such a spider in the middle of the network for me. That was great. While I was looking at this declaration, it seemed to me, on paper, completely pointless. Firstly, as the previous speaker, Andres Anvelt, said, there are 30,000 declarations. It takes an official half a day to examine one, so that's 15,000 working days. And no one can compare them yet, because no human has a computer mind. See, banks, for example, have a system such as Business Intelligence, whatever it is in Estonian, business intelligence, etc., and there will immediately set the alarm bells on fire if there is an unusual translation or some kind of conflict in your normal behavior. In our case, it could be a sign that we are very diligent in pushing one bill in an area where we ourselves have economic interests. In fact, this connection was certainly not seen at that time, and I doubt in itself whether it is now very obvious, because the electronic form that has now come is not fully electronic in that sense either, so that it compares all your actions and your declaration last year. So, for example, I remember that when I filled out my first declaration in the Riigikogu, there was a question about the fact that, so far, it's pretty unsolved when you have an investment company. Logically, you have two options: do you declare that you have this investment company OÜ and that your equity is a couple of thousand euros with kopikas, or do you also have to declare the content of the investment company that he owns. In fact, at the moment, in this declaration of interests, we only have to declare the existence of a private limited company, its EUR 2000 or what this equity is. This investment company, in turn, can have no matter how many things. In the first year, I also accidentally declared its content, because an official of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu gave his interpretation and said that it was still necessary. Well, I'm afraid that officer was just very curious. So I declared it. But what shocked me was not that I declared empty, nor do I have anything to hide, but that next year I learned that it does not need to be declared. So I didn't do it anymore, but I was on hold all the time, I thought the day would soon come when the Evening Paper would publish a big headline that Randpere was basically broke in one year, because my wealth seemed to be much worse. Nothing like that! Neither the press nor the system itself compares last year's declaration with the next one, nor discovers the major changes I have just talked about. For example, in the case of banks, Business Intelligence systems would automatically set the alarm. In this sense, it is a little pointless what we do with these declarations of interest. No substantive analysis shall be carried out. I think Kalev Eagle asked why we didn't declare all the vehicles before. We declare old cars, but like horses that can be much more expensive than any Mosquichi, we don't declare. I wouldn't mind declaring it on my own, but the question is really up. I've got a horse somewhere without me declaring him. This shows a little lack of consistency in this declaration. But I also have a completely revolutionary proposal, which once again proves that my previous speaker, who claimed that we were taking time, was deeply mistaken. I am not just going to spend time; I am also going to make a seriously good proposal, as I said, a revolutionary proposal. At present, these declarations of interests are inaccessible to a large number of people, and perhaps that should be the case. But why, for example, could the declarations of interests of members of the Riigikogu not be freely accessible to other members of the Riigikogu? Then we'd really be bringing in some kind of phenomenon like neighborhood watch. Since I believe myself to know quite a lot about the real relationships and interests of my fellow Members, I might really look at their declarations with a critical eye and discover some corruption cases. Now I don't think I'm gonna compete with Artur so I can detect or detect corruption with the same caliber, but something. It's a joke, but in itself I think it's a little funny that, on the one hand, we're filling out this declaration, on the other hand, it's only for a few journalists who can access it in relatively limited form. Actually, our incomes aren't public. But if we're looking at Finns right here in the north, they have income declarations. The day when they were published in the old days were in paper form, I don't know, today maybe it's only electronically, it's a big event for the whole of Finland, not just for the press. Everyone is looking at what the neighbour has or does not have, what he has declared and what he does not have. So I think that such a small change, a minor revolution, if you like, could be appropriate, but maybe not. And finally, of course, I have the question that if I fill out my declaration honestly and honestly now, what's the bonus? If I go to Selver's self-service, pay fair and have a shopping check, I'll get at least one chocolate. This is where I fill out the declaration of interests honestly and get nothing. Then I'll see how the articles come out about some guy, the kidnapper, who doesn't fill up, says he forgot, was distracted, desperate, because she left him or whatever, and nothing happens. That also raises the question of why I have to be honest with you. Some little whip or cookie might be appropriate. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U152	Andres Anvelt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U153	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been answering some very interesting questions here on the remote for three hours. When it is said here that the subject is somewhat redundant and complicated, I am sincerely telling you that I was very happy to answer a lot of questions that I have discussed with many of you somewhere in the cafeteria. I have been asked at all about the need for declarations here in Estonia, whether this is not, as they say, an empty breeze, etc. What gave us a little more enthusiasm was that probably not all colleagues are familiar with all the nuances of the 143 objectives of the draft law due to the lack of time. If, in the meantime, there was a debate on sexual minorities, that is really not a matter for this declaration. It's kind of a question sucked out of a pen, but that's that. When we come back to the proposals of our good colleague, Valdo Randpere, the negotiations are the place where we negotiate different ideas. No one's gonna deny us our colleague's MHD, and again I'm gonna fix the HD, check the declaration of interests. Yeah, it's not all there, but there's a lot to see. We can see his real estate and vehicles, which we can peek through the window and see here, and also his business interests. So this kind of social control, in the form of a neighborhood watch, is quite possible in itself. The only thing is, as you all know, is that trail. If someone comes in the hallway and asks what you've been looking into, you can ask further questions and tell them why you need it. And that is also the point of disclosure, i.e. a declaration of interests equally accessible to everyone. And now I want to talk about one non-perhaps very important but substantive change compared to the declaration of economic interests on paper. These declarations, which we are drawing up now, are no longer declarations of economic interest, but are declarations of interest. This change in the name is not merely a word form of a declaration of interests is much wider. It's actually, like I said before when I answered the questions, sort of like a free microphone. That is where we politicians can enter, for example, all those issues that can, as you can already imagine, raise some questions. And believe me, in this case, the declaration of interests is our helper. We're declaring everything, we're not hiding that we have some kind of interest somewhere else than in this hall. We are all people, we are acting alongside our political activities, perhaps in some company or in some other area, in some organisations. Then why not mention it? Believe me, that interest from the outside too, when you're asked, but why haven't you mentioned it, is much bigger than when you say that I have nothing to hide that it has always been. This can certainly be seen as an indication of your real interests. This is the same debate as I said, this speechless debate between the public and policy-making, so that there is no misunderstanding of each other that there is no wall in the meantime. In fact, the declaration of interests is, to some extent, the door in the wall from which everyone can enter and, if necessary, make their own decisions as to whether this person is loyal to him as a taxpayer or whether he is acting, for example, here or elsewhere in the state office, in the light of his narrow personal interests. I therefore believe that the declaration of interests is not a misrepresentation of any kind. He may seem too declarative, he may seem annoying, to ask why I'm filling it, anyway it's all known. If anyone wants to make any generalisations, yes, a large part of this data is publicly available from other databases. Here, however, they have been brought together, and this is also a declaration of intent. I would like to stress once again that it is similar to starting a job at a company somewhere when you are asked questions. If you leave something unanswered there and it's identifiable, there's a lot less chance you're gonna get this job. In this case, we are in fact employees, and our voters are employers. Let us be honest with them by declaring the same interests. Now there are more of these amendments today. I think that, in itself, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have quite an interesting debate in the preparation of the second reading on concessions, so-called benefits and benefits. One side is what we pay on the outside, whether we support our party, support a fundraiser, a cancer association or some church council, and the other side is when someone makes some kind of concessions in our interests. Actually, it's the first half, as they say, of doing the outside, easier. This is where we get to the point of such freedom of conscience. My own proposal in the Commission was that this matter should be voluntary. If I still support a congregation, whether or not I write that declaration is my business. The only thing is, if it comes out of somewhere backwards, I have a chance to explain. Legal protection is needed here that it really is voluntary for a person. As far as the benefit is concerned, it is more complicated. In fact, the advantage received can in itself be interpreted in different ways. However, we have talked about the advantage received in the case of this so-called Volvo scandal, whether the advantage received by the members of the Riigikogu is legitimate, whether it should be declared, etc. There is quite a debate ahead of us here, and I think we could achieve that we do not reduce the 'trust credits' of members of the Riigikogu and other public officials. Because the worst thing can be if we close a door that's already open. Any step back from such disclosure is dissatisfied with society and these public reviewers. Here I suggest we look seriously in the mirror or, let's say, not in the mirror, but seriously discuss these steps before we start making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-28_U154	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. It is, of course, the proposal of the commission to conclude the first reading of the draft which it has initiated itself. I will set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 February. Thank you! Take care! Closure of the sitting at 1.44 p.m.
