ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister, good afternoon. We will begin the 12th working week of the third plenary session. I am prepared to accept both drafts and inquiries if anyone has to hand them over. Heili Tõnisson on behalf of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, the Law on Disease Control and the Law on Trade in Animals and Animal Products, and on Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U3	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Auditor's appointment to the National Audit Office 2016. For the purpose of monitoring the activities carried out in 2006'. Pursuant to § 5 of the National Audit Office Act, the auditor determines the annual activity of the National Audit Office on the basis of a proposal from the Permanent Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and on the basis of his/her decision of 18 April, the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu submits the National Audit Office 2016. Grant Thornton Baltic OÜ. The Finance Committee was based on the outcome of the public procurement organised by the National Audit Office. A majority of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U5	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U6	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Everyone in this hall must have been informed that the Air Safety Board suspended the certificate of AS Avies on 1 April because the company was unable to comply with the safety requirements. I have the honour to present, on behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, an inquiry into air links between the islands and the continent. Ensuring constant and high-quality air traffic with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa is also the subject of a government coalition agreement, which is why the current situation requires rapid and decisive intervention. That is why we have five questions on which we hope good answers from Mr Kristen Michal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U7	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on an inquiry to our Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. We do not have much praise for the situation in rural and agricultural areas. As we have already heard today, pig farmers are joining in order to emerge from the crisis somehow. In today's meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, however, representatives from the dairy sector said that this is no longer a crisis, but could be called a disaster. In order to overcome this situation in some way, one method would also be to develop joint activities in the countryside. We in Estonia do not have it at a very high level at the moment when compared to the previous republic or even to the countries of the European Union where most dairy and agriculture are cooperative activities. We may have only tens of cooperatives, while there are thousands or tens of thousands of companies. There is also a need to develop joint activities in Estonia that we have not done in the last 25 years. On this basis, we are going to ask some questions to our Minister for Rural Affairs. How far away are we to develop this joint action? Where are we going, and what can we do? Is there any hope that joint action will somehow improve the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U9	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! After some clarification, I will re-submit the draft law amending the Act on Pre-school Children's Institution. I would remind you that, quite recently, a draft amendment to the pre-school institution law was submitted to the procedure, in which we proposed that after a free school lunch, the municipal and private children's institutions receive a grant of EUR 1.5 to cover food costs. As you will recall, it was said that this would be a particularly necessary step in supporting the schooling process of kindergarten children. If we look at international studies, from the age of 5, work in our kindergarten will also be considered part of our education. Of course, it would also provide local authorities with more resources for other purposes, so it will certainly also indirectly provide support for local authorities. As a result of the clarification of the calculations in this regard, I am pleased to inform you here that the expenditure on the state budget is just over EUR 8 million. Supporting kindergarten would certainly be a major step and an appropriate state initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U11	The number of drafts delivered is 3 and the number of enquiries is 2, with which all we deliver on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are in the plenary hall. Adoption of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu! Today's fifth item was an inquiry to No 189, submitted by the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. With regard to this inquiry, the heirs and the Minister have reached an agreement that the Minister will respond on 9 May. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the 12th working week of the third session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 in favour, one against, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U12	Let's start on the agenda. First of all, an inquiry has been made by Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsepp, Külliki Kübarsepp and Monika Haukanõmm. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U13	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! On 16 March, eight members of the Free Party Envoy Group submitted an inquiry into possible pressure on the Estonian-Russian border. We have a number of questions relating to the possible mass migration towards the Estonian-Russian border and the action of our internal security forces in such an emergency. I consider it necessary to point out here that this issue has an international background. There are also bad examples of Nordic countries, where all this happened last autumn. Indeed, at both the Norwegian-Russian and Finnish-Russian borders, a very serious situation arose last year when hundreds of asylum seekers appeared at the border with Russian visas or residence permits. In Norway, for example, it was soon discovered that most of them really do have Russian visas or residence permits, as they had said, but not only, but they have lived and worked in that country for years, and all of a sudden they have a connection with human traffickers in Murmansk for some reason. According to various data, it is quite obvious that the Russian special service FSB, which is also part of the Russian state's construction of the border guard service, contributed to this whole process, and that is how asylum seekers reached the borders of neighbouring countries. By the end of 2015, 5500 people in Norway had applied for asylum, while Finland had applied for some less. However, Finland's future behaviour is particularly strange. Namely, there are at least two border crossing points, the Raja-Jooseppi and Salla, where Finland has now renounced the right of European Union citizens to cross the border. This is a temporary measure, but these border crossing points are only open to Russian or Belarusian citizens. This is a rather unprecedented step in the European Union's understanding, which has been achieved by a temporary bilateral agreement, but it certainly does not look good, even though it solved the situation for the Finns. Therefore, warning examples exist and this is also motivated by our questioning the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U14	Thank you. The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu, good heirs! I will respond to your inquiry on 16 March about possible pressure on the Estonian-Russian border. The first question: 'What is the government's threat assessment of possible mass migration towards the Estonian-Russian border? Is this possible in 2016? ' According to a risk assessment prepared by the Estonian competent authorities, it is unlikely that Estonia will soon become a country of destination for irregular migration, insofar as we do not have the attraction factors of migration, for example, the communities ahead. It is more likely that groups will arrive at our border with a desire to use Estonia as a transit country. However, such groups would rather remain small. It is unlikely that hundreds of people will arrive at a simultaneous illegal border crossing or border crossing point for the purpose of applying for international protection. Every day we interact with our colleagues in the north, in Finland, Norway and Sweden, and also in the south, in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, in order to prevent any possible scenarios, including those that are unlikely to occur. The second question: 'What is the course of action of the internal security forces if refugees are able to cross the border illegally and enter the territory of Estonia uncontrolled? Who will be the operational manager of the crisis, and what is the role and responsibility of the Prime Minister here? ' I will answer this and the third questions 'What do you think is the probability that the refugee crisis on the Estonian-Russian border will be used to destabilise Estonian society, especially in Ida-Viru County? ' Together. According to the competent authorities, the likelihood that the refugee crisis will be used to destabilise Estonian society is low. However, I stress that the Estonian state must be prepared for any situation, even hypothetical. In the event of irregular border crossings, the Police and Border Guard Board must resolve the situation. If necessary, an emergency plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Emergency Act and the necessary management structures shall be established based on the scale of the situation. Such topics are well in place in Estonia and not only in the law, but the government has repeatedly played them through at different levels of governance. I would point out that in the ten years before the governments I manage, there have been only a few exercises at this level. During the last two years, the government has held seven sessions in full where one or the other scenario has been played, including the implementation of one or the other situation. This concerns not only internal security, but also all possible risks, even those that are not very likely to materialise. So you can be sure that the current government is very well prepared and very detailed about all possible crisis situations, including the implementation of an emergency. Question 4: "What is Estonia's ability to guarantee physical resilience throughout the eastern border, so that larger groups of persons cannot unauthorizedly cross the border? What will the government do to secure the border line during this year? ' I am very pleased that the Free Party also understands the importance of a modern and secure eastern border. After all, the creation of a high-tech eastern border is one of the government's priorities, in which we invest over EUR 70 million in a total of four years. The activities of last year's Eastern border building project are all aimed at preventing illegal border crossings, protecting the security of the external borders of Estonia, the European Union and NATO, but also at preventing cross-border crime. In 2016, we will invest EUR 20 million in the construction of the eastern border, actually adding another EUR 7.6 million to the Narva second border crossing point, or, as they say in Narva, investments in the Narva 2 border crossing point and the Piusa cordon, and 17 million in the purchase of customs equipment at the eastern border. So in total, the amount that we invest in 2016 alone to increase security at the eastern border is over EUR 40 million, almost EUR 45 million. It is quite certain that this is a larger investment than has ever been made. But I believe it is already in competition with the sum that has been invested in the eastern border over the years. These are very large investments and fundamental activities. It is a pleasure to say that at present about 90% of the 134 km long land border has been cut and milled. At the end of last year, we started celebrating the eastern border and installed the first border post. In total, some 700 border posts are coming to the eastern border, both on land and on water bodies. This work will continue this year. Construction works and infrastructure will also be started in June. In order to prevent illegal border crossing physically, we will build fences of sufficient height and strength in the necessary places, install a modern technical surveillance system on the border strip, which will help to detect illegal border crossings and cross-border crime and, of course, also enhance national security. In order to ensure the surveillance of the external border, we also intend to obtain the necessary equipment from drones to radar, sensors and observation equipment. Apart from investing in technology and infrastructure, we consider the motivational salary of border guards to be important. The current certainty that Estonia is bordering is largely due to the good work done by our border guards. We will continue to work in 2017 and will do our utmost to allow the necessary resources to be allocated to the eastern border in the course of the process of the country's budgetary strategy. Once again, it is very important to me that our country is well protected. One big step in this direction is precisely when we invest in building our eastern border. Question 5: 'How many police officers, border guards, defence alliances and relief police are involved to secure the state border when there is serious pressure (hundreds of people a day)? Are additional forces provided with equipment, uniforms, catering and accommodation and is it financially possible? ' Staff members of the Police and Border Guard Board, auxiliary police officers and Defence Leagues shall be involved as necessary. Legal bases and cooperation arrangements are in place for this purpose, and provision of equipment and reception conditions are also constantly being carried out. As far as financing is concerned, in the event of an emergency, it is possible to use the Government of the Republic's reserve, and it is also possible to receive assistance through the European Union crisis management mechanism. We can also ask for human resources from other European Union countries, for example through the Frontex Rapid Reaction Mechanism. Of course, we also have bilateral cooperation agreements with neighbouring countries. The Police and Border Guard Board has carried out the necessary exercises and training for years to improve preparedness for crisis situations, and in 2015 these exercises and trainings were intensified to further enhance preparedness. There are also a number of exercises planned in 2016 and the experience gained from Croatia and Greece, to which we have dispatched Estonian teams to deal with the migration crisis, will certainly contribute. Question 6: "How has information been exchanged with other countries, especially Norway and Finland, in order to be prepared in the best way to repeat this pressure on the eastern border of Estonia? Can Estonia also count on political and diplomatic support? ' At the operational level, there is regular exchange of information with Finland and Norway, as well as with Latvia and Lithuania. As mentioned earlier, in a crisis situation, rapid assistance can be obtained from the European Border Guard Agency, the European Asylum Support Office and other Member States. As Estonia is not a country of destination for migration, the arrival of mass refugees in Estonia would have a significant impact on the countries of destination for migration, and comprehensive political and diplomatic support for solving the problem is guaranteed in any case. The Police and Border Guard Board has gained practical experience in managing the migration crisis in missions in Slovenia and Greece. Migration-related missions have been attended by the PBA since 2010, for example, there are currently 28 IPA officials on the island of Lesbos, as well as liaison officers to Ankara and Athens. Estonia is a valued and reliable country in the world. As long as we continue on this course, we can count on full support if we need it someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U16	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Of course, it is reassuring to hear that risks are not very likely to materialise. But I think that in Finland and Norway, too, a year ago, it was thought that such risks could not well be realised. However, there was a major problem, although these are very administratively able countries. We find this example a warning. And it is not just a question of keeping the border, but of managing such organized asylum seekers. But I would extend the example of Finland or the strange solution they have reached, that there are at least two border crossing points from which the citizens of the European Union cannot overcome, but that Belarus and Russia will have citizens. How do you assess the situation in a neighbouring country? Do you consider it possible that something like this could happen in Estonia, too, or do we have the means to prevent such pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U18	Thank you. As far as the probability of the risk being realised is concerned, I rely on the data of the Estonian competent authorities. I believe that as a member of the Riigikogu, you will certainly have the opportunity, for example, to invite people to a committee or a political group, and then you will be able to speak in much more detail than here in such a public format about what exactly the threat assessment is based on. In my opinion, however, the eastern border between Estonia and Finland is quite different, because, for example, there are no locations on the Estonian border such as the north of Finland or the border with Lapland, i.e. border points which are very far from the larger centres. We do not have such a situation, so any comparison may be a little inappropriate. However, I do think that, in any case, we must also, even if we do not see that a similar thing, as happened in Finland or Norway, would be likely to make a very serious contribution to strengthening the border. Such cases, for example, where dozens of Vietnamese people cross the border, have not been news to us for many years. It happens every now and then these people get dealt with. They have mostly been sent back to their home country because they are not people who comply with the rules for applying for asylum. There are also those who have wanted to use Estonia as a transit country, but, of course, as a country of the European Union, we have an obligation to deal with these people. So smaller groups like this have come up before. They have been there lately, but all of them are handled perfectly by the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board, they are caught very close to the border. Local residents in Setumaa have quite a good sense of humor, in some places even the Vietnamese labels have already been put out, of course, in order to make a bit of a mockery. In fact, we know, of course, that the number of Vietnamese people in total volume is not so large that we have somehow become a serious migration corridor. But there have been cases like this, and if so, the PBA has a clear pattern of behaviour to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U19	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U20	Thank you very much. Honourable answer! It was said here that almost every day Estonia is at an operational level in cooperation with its northern, western and also southern neighbours, which is perfectly natural. My question is about the Eastern Neighbor. Do we, and if so, on what level do we have contacts with Russia in this regard? We remember that only recently was the Finnish President with Putin, they were discussing things. At what level do we have an exchange of views and information with Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U21	Thank you. We have not had political contacts at this level and it has probably been an informed choice. But we have very close work-level contacts with our eastern neighbour. When people have to deal with cross-border crime or smuggling on both sides of the border, for example, it is only natural that information is exchanged. There have been better and poorer days in the exchange of information between us. The head of the PBPA can certainly speak more about the details in either the political group or the committee than I can speak from this point of view. But in general, I consider it natural that information is still exchanged at work level and that there is cooperation as far as possible. After all, it's elementary when there's, like, border violations or something like that. But political contacts are, yes, let's say, relatively brief. It is also quite clear that our relations and, more generally, relations between the whole of the European Union and Russia have not been the best since Russia entered into an attack in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U22	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U23	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You stressed several times that today's eastern border is our great goal. However, this concerns quite a number of private owners, who are slightly concerned that the state is willing to buy land at a very cheap price of 5,8 cents per square metre. There are rumors that even the state spends more money on Domus Kinnisvara than these landowners put together. What orders of magnitude are we talking about? Is what I mentioned true?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U24	Thank you. I believe that fair agreement must be reached with all landowners. The state does not have its own clear land transfer procedures, and there are several aspects that the state must monitor: on the one hand, the acquisition procedure must be correct and the price fair; on the other hand, it must also be observed, where possible, that owners are treated on an equal footing. I believe that it is actually understandable and understandable for every human being that this ten-metre strip, or in some places a wider strip, which the country must dispose of from the border in order for the eastern border to be constructed, will also make the country owner's home area safer. Then you can be sure that there are no criminals or smugglers crossing the border. All in all, it's a thing we all have in common. Of course, you must also get a fair price for your property. For this purpose, there are clear procedures for the calculation of the price by the State. As far as rumors are concerned, I am not a very good speaker on this subject. I don't think this is a hall where rumors should be spoken either. Perhaps when there is a specific question of fact, the Ministry of the Interior can ask exactly how much landowners have been paid and how much the costs of brokers or brokers have been possible. I think you'll get the exact information from them, and then you won't have to deal with any rumors at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U25	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! My question concerns Estonia's potential transit centre for asylum seekers or refugees. A specific example. Refugees came across the Latvian-Russian border, they were brought to Estonia, where they expected an organized transfer to Poland, where there is already a significant Vietnamese community. How effective is cooperation between Estonia and Latvia to minimise such cases and to prevent them from happening again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U27	Thank you. Look, there's a lot of details. If you asked the Minister for the Interior the same questions, he would certainly have more information on specific cases at operational level. I dare say that very likely when it was the Vietnamese people, as you referred to, they may not have been refugees at all, but their legal status was different. But since the question was specifically about cooperation between Estonia and Latvia, I know that we have very close and good cooperation with both Latvia and Finland. I'm sure you'll get a much more accurate answer when you ask the Minister of the Interior directly, because he certainly has more immediate knowledge. If there were any failures in national cooperation, I am quite sure that this information would have reached me as well. So, of course, we are working very closely with both Latvians and Finns, who are our main partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U28	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U29	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! On what basis do you believe that hundreds of asylum seekers do not appear at the Estonian border? However, they appeared at the border between Finland and Norway, despite the fact that these countries have normal relations with their neighbour Russia, unlike us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U30	Thank you. I have already replied that it is based on the assessment of the competent authorities and also on the fact that Estonia is not a country of destination for migration, for example, from Norway, Finland or Sweden. Plus, I didn't quite understand the definition you used. According to what logic does Finland or Norway have normal relations, and what exactly do you think this normal relationship means? In my opinion, the whole of the European Union, including Estonia and Finland, has made it very clear that we do not tolerate Russia's activities as an aggressor in Ukraine. There are no diametric differences in our policy here, and I believe that it is also reasonable to continue this way. Of course, we are not in any way thrilled that the European Union must impose sanctions on Russia. We are also affected by these sanctions; we are also affected by Russia's sanctions; that is clear. At the same time, the European Union as a whole understands perfectly that we cannot turn a blind eye when Russia has been very aggressive towards its sovereign neighbour. It would be immoral of us to ignore such a thing. Therefore, we have said jointly in the European Union that as long as Russia acts as an aggressor, there cannot be normal relations between the European Union and Russia, or, as the English says, business as usual. In my opinion, Norway has acted in close sync with the European Union on this issue, i.e. I have not noticed any fundamental differences in their policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U31	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is very reassuring to hear that there are threat assessments that say that we will not have the same thing as in Norway or Finland. And we must also agree with you that we are not the country of destination, rather the country of transit. But no matter who we are, it is very important for us to respect the Dublin principle. At the beginning of this month, the European Commission came up with a so-called new Communication, where one issue is the need to open a debate on changing the Dublin system. It doesn't matter which one of these two chooses, in any case it means a changed situation. What do you think this is? Should we change the Dublin system or not? So far, we've been jealously defending it. How would this affect the Schengen area in which we are delivering?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U33	Thank you. On this subject, I have already reported quite a lot before Parliament, most recently in Question Time last Wednesday, but also, of course, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, of which you are a member. To sum up my position very briefly, we are indeed still very sceptical about the major changes to these principles. However, we are particularly sceptical about the compulsory relocation scheme. We understand that, if, during a crisis, such a crisis management mechanism is implemented, in which countries contribute voluntarily, it is one thing, but it should not become automatic or permanent. Therefore, we believe that the original Dublin principle must be maintained. Since all the listeners who are watching us, even via television or the Internet, may not know what this general principle is, I will say very briefly that, according to the Dublin principle, the responsibility lies with the country to which asylum seekers first enter. Such a change, simply a solution, so that we automatically redistribute asylum seekers between the countries of the European Union, Estonia does not support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U34	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U35	Good Chairman! Prime Minister! By combining police and border guards, the number of professional border guards decreased. To compensate for this, a special border guard unit was set up, which has now been operating for just over a year. Has the Special Forces been in need of any favors this year? Is the unit large enough to respond quickly and deal with hundreds of border crossings?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U36	Thank you. The task force has multiple functions and, as far as I know, the beginning has gone exactly as planned. As to how many times they have participated and exactly how, I believe, you would get a much more precise answer if you asked the Minister of the Interior. Now, the number of people at the border as a whole. Let's say, the traditional border guard work on the eastern border is 700 people in the order of magnitude. And 700 people with cameras, sensors, all sorts of technical solutions are far more effective than 700 people without these solutions. Our plan is, in fact, to deal with the same number of people by providing them with very good technology. There are still some passages on the eastern border of Estonia, and there are very good sensors. There are also the camera boxes of Defendec hidden in the forest, which send a picture when movement is detected. So all kinds of technical solutions are already being used, but they are still relatively uneven. We want the entire eastern border to have a full view of the northeast corner to the southeast, then there are 700 people, plus a special unit, very successfully able to cover and guard the border. Sometimes there are such exceptional cases, exceptional crises, or there is a need to close the border for any reason. The last time we closed the border was when President Obama visited Estonia. Before that, we have closed the border, for example, when there has been a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers. So, for reasons of security, this has been done before. In such cases, it is not the special forces that are generally involved, but rather the defence allies that come to the aid of the PBGB. It has all been practiced many times, it has also been realised in practice. Estonia certainly has the capacity to close the eastern border and the southern border in a short period of time, in fact also ports and airports, or more precisely, to restore border control over the movement of all people, also at the southern border. That's the capacity we have. And it's not being done with a special unit, it's rather involving the Defence League. But once again, the Minister of the Interior will certainly give you a more detailed view of these, let's say, operational nuances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U37	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Does Estonia have such a plan, and, if so, when, that the border is really closed, so that the offenders will no longer reach the garage near the border, but will be captured before they are hidden, and will not be caught by chance afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U39	Thank you. This logic of border building is aimed at building a proper fence with the necessary strength in those places where the risk of border crossing is greatest. In addition to the physical fence, there are sensors and cameras throughout the border that significantly improve our vision in all the shorter and most unlikely sections of the border. This will, of course, help to ensure that, if any movement is detected at the border, there is an instant picture in the cordon. In fact, we already have this capacity on quite a number of sections, but not at the whole border. If there is a picture, you can react immediately. So, of course, the whole logic of building the eastern border is to have an overview of 100%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U40	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! How long do you think it will be possible to use the Defence League to help the PBGB in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U42	Thank you. It's been repeatedly played through the exercises. Basically, we can restore full border control and we could certainly do it, but it would be very expensive. Really, very expensive, because we're talking about tens of millions. I can look up the exact amounts separately and let you know if you're interested. But the use of the Defence League could happen the fastest if we really had to decide what, I hope, never happens, that we will completely restore border controls. Then we should prepare it. However, it is still for me that we have free movement in Schengen and that we only introduce border controls in a few cases, very temporarily, very high value. This not only means that the people of Estonia can move more freely without showing a passport from Tallinn to Lisbon or anywhere in Europe, but also that the goods of our companies can move more freely. You have probably seen this situation years ago, for example, at the Lazdijai border crossing between Lithuania and Poland, where the trucks stood for days and also the tourist buses or cars had to be in the long line. Then he had to show his papers to the border guard with a folder and wait for him to run through all the papers. I think it's a very big deal that it's all in the past. Today, the necessary things are also being identified at Europe's internal borders much more effectively, through technology. If there is a need to temporarily close the border, there must certainly be a capacity to do so. But the fact that Schengen is broken and iron curtains restored, I hope it never happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U43	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U44	Now an inquiry by Erki Savisaar, Tarmo Tamm, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Andrei Novikov, Enn Eesmaa, Rein Ratas, Jüri Ratas, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits and also Toomas Vitsut. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Estonia's population is declining. This has been said for years, if not decades. Ministers, the President and other officials should be ashamed because they have not noticed the main existential problem of Estonia's population decline. Last September the Riigikogu formed a support group for the Estonian population in which all political parties are represented, and on 17 February the conference 'Estonian demographic status and trends' organised by the support group took place on the premises of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, this debate in the press found a very modest approach compared to the already annoying stories of refugees or the shame of the ambassadors. However, the decline of the population is a major problem for Estonia. If there are no people, there is no country. Scared in the debate on immigration, as if in a deep valley, without seeing the real problems and the ensuing crisis in the social system, it is completely unacceptable. According to Statistics Estonia's forecast, the Estonian population will decrease by an average of 5,000 people every year until 2040, with the number of people of working age even more than 6,000 per year. At the same time, the number of retirement age is increasing by more than 3000 every year. Such developments require more than two people to support private sector workers in 2040 instead of the current 1.6. In addition to the collapse of the social system, as the current trends continue for the next turn of the century, which is seen by a large part of the children now born, the communicators of Estonian language and culture are just over 700000. The Confederation of Employers and some politicians see the influx of workers as the main solution, whether it is a plan for the importation of reformable refugees or for the two million inhabitants of the father country, but a normal sustainable society restores itself. More children could be born in Estonia. Scientists believe that demographic processes, including birth rates, can be influenced. The demographic toilet scenario proposed by Rein Taagepera is quite likely to materialise if we look at everything inaction, calming ourselves with the fall of birth rates in other European countries as well. The chart presented by the leading researcher of the Tallinn University Centre for Demography, Allan Puur, shows the greatest optimist that if the same trends continue, the Estonian people will die quietly. Looking from the rest of the world, the disappearance of one language and culture is not, or knows what kind of disaster the empty place is filled by immigrants and their children. After all, we are not the first to make such choices on the downward steps, but in population processes it is up to the drowner to save the drowner himself. Do we want to drown like other nations that have already disappeared? In 1998, population issues were discussed with experts at the cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic on 14 July. The views on the demographic situation and development of Estonia were presented by Andra Veidemann, Minister of Population. On the basis of the documents, it seems that the government at that time tried to deal with population problems systematically. For example, the Riigikogu commission was designed to solve population issues. It was also thought that the impact on public health, demographic nature and so on should be taken into account in the planning of national policies in the future. It was acknowledged that if nothing is done now, the 21st century will be the last for the Estonian people. However, the new government that took office in 1999 changed that view. Katrin Saks became the minister of the population and the general principles of planned population policy and the development of operational programmes were rejected. It was later replaced by family policy, which is much narrower and also less effective. I hope that the current government will take a different view and have found a way to reverse this trend and will explain to us what the government's agenda is to tackle this problem. I'll ask the Prime Minister to read the questions. Thank you. (Speaks of quotations from the opinion of psychologist Avo-Rein Tereping, published this year on 12 April in Postimees.)
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U46	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu and heirs! First of all, my sincere recognition that you have submitted an inquiry on such an important subject. There was also a very thorough introduction. In this way, I find it very pleasant to have a debate. And this is indeed a subject that deserves much, much more discussion in Parliament than has been the case in recent times. But then, as you wish, I will answer every question in a row and read the questions. The first question: 'What is the government's agenda so that the population does not shrink and Estonia does not have a situation where there is not enough working hands to support the treatment and pension systems? ' First of all, this question actually had a very long introductory part, where you referred to the United Nations forecast, which says that by 2040 the number of people will fall to about 1.2 million. I recall one population forecast from 2002, which said that if you do nothing in 2002 I will stress ., there will be less than 900000 people in Estonia by 2050. So in this short period of time, in 14 years, the forecast has actually improved by almost 300,000 people from such a rather distant perspective. But there is also a clear reason. First of all, why do I remember that? Because I went to work for the Minister of Population Paul-Eerik Rummo in spring 2003, I became head of office. And secondly, the government at that time considered it very important to create parental benefits that significantly broke this trend. Back then, there were natural crops with about 5,000 people in the minus. Within a few years, the situation improved considerably, reaching even a small advantage one year. Unfortunately, it didn't last. If I remember correctly, I think in 2010 we were a little bit of a plus. But positive trends are actually from the last time. According to preliminary data, 422 children were born last year than in 2014, which of course does not mean that we should not take demographic challenges very seriously. Here I agree entirely with the questioners. Now, if you look at the same surveys in 2002 and at what my current conviction is, I continue to believe that family confidence is a prerequisite for more children to be born. And a number of very important steps have been taken in history to increase this confidence. Firstly, the parental benefit already mentioned, the basic principles of which must quite certainly be maintained. If we find ways to further increase the choice of families, if we can find ways to improve the parental benefit system further, this should not be ruled out, but the basic principles that parents have the opportunity to decide for themselves which of them stays at home, and the general principle that the income of the family will not fall until the child reaches the age of one and a half are certainly worth keeping. This is a very, very large part of the confidence of their families. Secondly, the most important demographic measure of the government currently in office is the surge in third-child support, resulting in a 2.2-fold increase in the support of a family of three children in four years, also considering that last year's government already exponentially increased the support of the first and second children from EUR 19 to EUR 45 first and this will rise to EUR 60. The government is now taking a long step forward, and in 2019 the support of a family of three children is 2.2 times higher than when the government started, i.e. more precisely EUR 420. And it really is in the same order of magnitude as our northern neighbours' subsidies, so it is certainly very important. With regard to the decline in working conditions, we are increasingly paying attention to the participation of the existing workforce in the labour market. This year's work capacity reform is the largest and most important social reform in the last 15 years and a major step towards improving the quality of life of people with disabilities. But we also need to remember that it is possible to get additional labour from there. Indeed, according to surveys, 45,000 people with reduced working capacity want to participate in the work life, and we have both money and a plan in place to help them and to support businesses to create jobs. In addition to making better use of the potential of local labour, we have discussed in the government proposals on how to make it easier for foreigners who contribute to economic development to enter Estonia and motivate entrepreneurial talent to work in Estonia. This concerns, for example, the IT sector. The second question: 'The current administrative reform shows that the government has accepted the decline in population and concentration in the centres and is tightening life in Estonia at the expense of rural areas. What measures do you intend to take to ensure that the standard of living does not differ so much from one region to another and that there are more jobs in the country? ' I agree that the quality of life of Estonian people is most directly influenced by the draft law on administrative reform, approved by the Government of the Republic and currently under parliamentary procedure, whose main objective is to ensure high-quality public services and strong local governments throughout Estonia, so that smaller municipalities can gain more capacity to perform their duties and that local life is even better organised for Estonian people, so that strong and capable municipalities and cities are born across Estonia, which can better organise education and create an environment favourable to entrepreneurship and provide local services from childcare to care for the elderly. I also expect the opposition to see the wisdom of seeing a big picture and state-manship here in order to avoid an internal political cap, which could jeopardise the achievement of this great goal. But I really believe that administrative reform has the potential to become an issue where the opposition also actively cooperates and thinks along with the government. The third question: 'In the last 14 years, according to official statistics, nearly 49000 people went abroad more than they arrived in Estonia. Today we know that people who have lost their jobs in smaller rural areas are no longer going to work in the capital, but are looking for employment opportunities in more prosperous countries. What do you think is missing in the country, that the best chance of living and giving birth to children is not seen here? What are the solutions? " According to the population scientists, Estonia is in the process of achieving a balance between immigration and emigration. While in 2014 the migration balance was minus 773, in 2015 the migration balance was negative with less than 100 people. Return migration has just begun to increase, which represents about half or a little more of the annual immigration. Some years ago, people from Estonia who have gone abroad to study or work increasingly return home, whether it is because children are at school age or because they want to take advantage of the experience and knowledge gained elsewhere, especially in their home country for Estonia. The difference in living standards between Estonia and other countries has also decreased year-on-year and does not affect emigration as much as before. A reduction in emigration means a wider improvement in the living environment and income. The goal of the government is to create a country from Estonia where it is good to live, raise and work and where you do not need to go abroad to look for work. At the same time, I would stress that the government should certainly not make any obstacles if the people of Estonia want to study or work in another country. If they want to link their career opportunities to global entrepreneurship, for example, it would be very inappropriate to make obstacles here. If we compare ourselves with other countries, for example, with other Baltic countries, then the number of people moving abroad from Estonia to work or live abroad is still, given our size, many times smaller than in Latvia or Lithuania, for example. What is important is that those who want to go elsewhere voluntarily for careers or education would have an opportunity, but that no one has a need to go. And when comparing two very representative migration surveys of recent times (this year, hopefully next), there were a lot of people who left Estonia in 2010 precisely because there was no normal job here. We remember that there were over 100,000 people in unemployment then, a very serious and acute problem. As early as 2013, when the second study was carried out using the same methodology, the situation had significantly improved. And if you look at the current migration statistics, it can be assumed that this 2016 survey, the original data of which I have not yet been able to see, but I do dare to assume, with some experience with this topic, shows that the situation has improved further. This is also confirmed by the 2015 migration balance, which is negative, but less than 100 people in the minus. Question 4: 'Toompea Educational Seminar has referred to shortcomings in relation to population policy, its poor coordination and poor analysis. Do you consider it necessary to set up a working group of independent experts on this matter, as you considered it necessary to convene a working group to assist the Nordic countries? ' Population policy is primarily coordinated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which deals on a daily basis with birth rates, public health, children's and families, pension systems, labour and social policies, and relevant action plans, analyses and proposals, of course also in consultation with demographers. Further studies will be carried out, if necessary, to further address population policy bottlenecks. The Riigikogu has also set up a support group for the Estonian population, who has the opportunity to keep the topic in mind and make proposals to the Ministry of Social Affairs or government as a whole. I believe that both the Ministry and the Riigikogu support group can cooperate and, if the need is seen, the expert working group can also be invited to provide advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U48	Questions for the Prime Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U49	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Estonian population was 1.56 million at the time of the re-independence, if we recall. If we look at this figure now in 2014, it was 1.31 million. Thus, during the restored statehood, we have lost about one sixth of our people. As we have heard today, statistics predict that further 5 000 people will go from us a year until 2040. I mean, people are leaving, the birth rate is low and the population is ageing. Scientists have made it very clear that, in fact, we have been dealing with a population crisis since the 1990s. The problem is that it is not recognised; different governments have not wanted to admit it. Do you acknowledge that we are still dealing with a population crisis? And what, though, is the reason for the decrease in people's numbers? Is it because people lack confidence, perhaps many have difficulties in social coping, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U51	Thank you. It seems to me that you did not listen to my answers with sufficient care. Let it be stressed that last year the number of Estonian residents fell by less than 100 due to migration, i.e. we are the closest to balance in the whole period after the restoration of independence. So because of migration or because people are leaving Estonia, we do not have a reduction in population. The problem remains that we have fewer children when people die. There are two things that can be done here. First of all, help to increase family confidence so that children are born more. I believe that each of us knows what measures could help here. And I believe that the sharp rise in the support of the third child, as in fact the rise in the support of the first and second children, will help to increase family confidence, as well as the many other steps we have taken to improve the livelihood of families. In addition, the strongest guarantee is always that families have jobs, parents have jobs. Unemployment in Estonia has fallen very quickly, and this will certainly increase family confidence. Thirdly, we must, of course, also deal with the other side, so that the people of Estonia live longer. Health issues play a very important role here. Estonian health care as a whole is on a very good level, but there is one thing that worries us very much, and that is the number of deaths associated with alcohol. It is not quite a coincidence that the government has increased alcohol duty very quickly. It is no coincidence that the government has been discussing alcohol policy in very detailed terms for several months. In order for the people of Estonia to live healthier and longer, it is certainly possible to take action with both alcohol policy and tobacco policy. Now your comparison with the occupation period, which seems strangely beautiful to you, is, in my opinion, inappropriate in the sense that after the occupation period, a number of people have left Estonia, for which perhaps it makes sense that they have left. Take 1994 as an example. If you recall history well, then it was agreed at the time that Russian troops would leave Estonia. It was such a quite necessary and important agreement. Your migration statistics reflect this as a big minus, but I'd say thank God it happened and never come back. There is no need for us to have occupying forces inside Estonia. And that is why, when you compare the beginning of the 1990s to the present time, it is always important to observe who has then gone exactly and where. On the other hand, of course, it is fair to say that a certain number of people have also gone voluntarily to live in other countries. As has been said, this number of people is many times smaller than in Latvia or Lithuania. I think it is natural, in a way, that a few percent of the people of Estonia live abroad in a situation where the world is open. I don't see any particular tragedy in it. What's more, I don't think all the talent should be locked up at home all the time. On the contrary, Estonian people who are abroad often make Estonia bigger. They are often very large Estonian patriots. I have repeatedly given this example that the fact that David Hinrikus and Kristo Käärmann moved to London has brought more than 300 jobs to Estonia. They have created one of Estonia's most successful companies. We shouldn't say, come home quickly and don't look abroad for God's sake. We can give examples of dozens and dozens of Estonian young people who have received world-class education. I have given lectures in top universities in the world over the past year: the United States, Japan, China, Italy. I have also met students from Estonia everywhere, and this is a very good feeling. This shows that everywhere in Japan, the University of Maseda in Tokyo, there were a whole range of Estonian doctoral students, Master's students, students who receive a very good education abroad, including the universities of Harvard, Duke, George Washington and Stanford in America. Everywhere I have been, I have always seen Estonian students, and I do not think that this is negative in any way. In your migration statistics, they reflect that they are currently abroad, but believe me, this foreign presence is of great benefit to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U52	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U53	Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Prime Minister, for your understanding and for responding to the reportable question of cooperation. But our population is still ageing at a vigorous pace and its recovery potential is decreasing. As early as 18 years ago, the cumulative birth rate decreased to 1.3 levels at its lowest level over the last hundred years. The Riigikogu Population Support Group has expressed the idea of discussing the demographic situation in Estonia as an important national issue at the plenary session. What do you think about this thought development? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U54	Thank you. On the positive side, I will say no way of questioning this topic, on the contrary, that the birth rate from this 1.3 has risen nicely since the parental benefit was applied, but it is still very far from 2.1, which is the so-called "regeneration" level. I don't like these demographic terms at all, because they're all very technical. Well, how can there be 2.1 children, and how can you even talk about children and families as a regeneration of the population? And yet the demographers use words like that. If only scientifically, these terms are likely to be accurate and justified. So we're still pretty far from this rate of regeneration, which is 2.1 children per family. Now, is it unique in the world? Absolutely not. As a member of the Riigikogu, I participated in a seminar at the World Bank, which has been very interesting for about five years, analysing demographic trends throughout Europe. And apart from individual countries, this trend is actually similar everywhere, unfortunately even the link that the better the economy, the more people have choices in life, the greater the pressure that there are fewer children in the family. In those countries where the standard of living is very low, the number of children is often much higher. There's less chance, less temptation. This connection is also set out in these examples. In any case, we have every reason to keep an eye on how other countries are, whether someone has invented anything. We hardly invent a magic wand, but maybe somebody's inventing something very clever, which we might want to take over. The parental benefit in Estonia is certainly one such thing that many others have seen as a very smart measure. I cannot say that parental benefits alone have done so, of course, children are born out of love, and we all understand it, but this has brought a great deal of confidence, and the number of births has increased significantly since parental benefits were created. And what is particularly exciting is that, after the creation of parental benefit, there was a very rapid increase in the number of women with higher education. It even doubled, which shows that in the case of people who have reached a very advanced stage in their careers, who are likely to have a greater impact than they have to stay home without income for a long time, the compensation provided strong progress. You had a question about whether there should be a debate on a matter of national importance here. As Prime Minister, I do not think it appropriate to comment on what could be discussed here in this form or not. At the same time, I'd say it would make a lot of sense. This is certainly such an important subject to be discussed throughout the day in the Riigikogu. And why not? That is, if I remember correctly, the political groups and committees have their own agreements, who can and when can initiate this debate. When this is achieved, I think, not as a Prime Minister or formally, but in a debate as a collaborator and as a person for whom this is an important issue, that it is a matter of absolutely absolutely crucial national importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U55	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U56	Thank you, Prime Minister. It's a good thing to hear your answers that we're losing our village, but you see, the Latvians are losing two villages, that we're in a much better position and that we have a high level of health care, except we can't get to the doctor, the queues are till autumn. Although such a bright atmosphere came to the hall, because everything is fine, I am now asking you specifically whether we are experiencing a population crisis now, as the successor asked, and as the Postimees newspaper headlined the entire page last Friday.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U57	Thank you. If we call the current situation a crisis, we can escalate the situation more than we need. I'm sure it's a very big challenge. It is certainly a very serious issue, but I would not call it a crisis. I would not panic, but I would call on everyone to actively look at what other countries have done in order to improve the situation. I think we have so far had very successful activities in order to increase the birth rate. If we compare with the year 2003, every year, several thousand children have been born since 2003 in addition to each year, and that is a big deal. I stress once again that only demographic measures, only the decisions of the government and the Riigikogu, of course, do not do so, but there is a link. Another major challenge is that we have improved population figures, including the life expectancy of Estonian men and women (especially women's life expectancy has increased significantly), which means that people live longer, live healthier lives, but for some strange reason, Estonian men die ten years earlier as statistical averages than Estonian women. Here are some things where the country can help to prevent this from happening. There is one thing that has already been said about alcohol. We have a lot of alcohol-related deaths, both directly and indirectly, and some diseases are also alcohol-related. Secondly, for example, every road death, every accident death, is too much. However, if you look at the long-term trend, there are very important advances to make fewer deaths in traffic, fewer accidents. I say again, every traffic and accident death is too much. The more we manage to prevent them, the more we can find these measures, the better our population figures will be. As has been said, emigration today is not the place where Estonia's population would be reduced. I stress once again that last year migration was essentially balanced: less than 100 people are, in fact, very, very small minus. So, in essence, migration is balanced and, as I said, it has been very much influenced by the fact that many people have returned to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U58	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! I share this compliment on the questioners that this is a very important problem raiser. Such an inquiry would be good for the Free Party, and I support it from this side. But I'm going to put the question in a slightly different way, with this shrinking or pessimistic aspect in mind, that it can be reduced, not stopped. You have one point in the coalition agreement that, in proportion to the decline in the working-age population, the number of public earners will also decrease. How are we going to implement it? What are the prospects and what are the areas of progress in the private sector where people can find work so that they do not have to leave Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U60	Thank you. There were a lot of questions, but I can still confirm that this theme is also suitable for the Reform Party, and I am absolutely sure that IRL and the Social Democrats too, because this is indisputably an important issue. And maybe it is a good thing that we are able to find solutions across policy on this issue. There was a question of reducing civil servants. We have not yet made final summaries at the government level, but I have seen the first statistics and there are the first assignments to the state. It cannot be said that this is in place for all ministries, there are few exceptions, but as a whole, this objective has been achieved. As we have agreed on a coalition agreement, we will continue this policy throughout our mandate. Now, in the spring, we certainly want to become more and more substantive. While, on previous occasions, we have been guided by the extent to which reforms have been carried out in the past and the structure has been optimised, now we are still trying to map these tasks more closely, to look for duplications and, if necessary, to unite institutions. So as time goes on, the more accurate we can go with these tasks. So far, there has been more responsibility for specific ministers who have had to carry out these optimisation tasks in their area of administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U61	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns the shrinking population in the country. People leave the country primarily because they do not have jobs. And if we look at today's crisis, which the country actually has in the agricultural sector, be it small farmers or even large farmers, there are fewer and fewer jobs there and businesses close their doors. But when I read the coalition agreement, you have a number of points there how you want to diversify life in the country. These are all beautiful words in the coalition agreement, but when will these beautiful words actually come true?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U63	Thank you, very good question! I thank you very much for congratulating a member of the Central Party Group on the agreement of the government coalition and for saying that it contains beautiful words. Surely we are working to make these beautiful words come true. These beautiful words are also put in a nicely timed document entitled 'The Government Work Plan'. From there you can follow the line-to-row when one or the other pretty sentence or word comes true. It's all right there. We're not going to make it a big secret. And it also says which minister is specifically responsible. Of course, we also hope that there will be votes of support from the opposition for the beautiful words and sentences that we have written in the coalition agreement. If these draft words are supported by Parliament, then all the assumptions are made that we actually come to action. The same applies, for example, to administrative reform and several other drafts that most directly improve people's lives in the countryside.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U64	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Estonians can be found in every important university, every city, every port. But please tell me how accurate the overview of where these Estonians live and work is at all in our country. On the other hand, have you thought about what we should do to make sure that these well-educated, educated young people really want to come to Estonia? It's probably not just the money they want.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U66	Thank you. The best overview is generally in the Estonian embassies of specific countries. If I go on a foreign mission and I communicate with the Estonian community, I do this often enough to communicate with the Estonian community, then before that I always ask the ambassadors how many Estonians there are in the area, who they work for, how many students etc. The embassies have a good overview. However, of course we have the free movement of people, and I think that each of us has a friend or acquaintance who lives abroad. It's not like he's under obligation to report that he's gone from London to Birmingham, or I flew from Birmingham to Paris to study. No one actually records this type of movement, but we still know who lives in general. And that's what it takes to know. In this sense, I call on the people who live abroad to actively make themselves known. For example, if you go permanently to live in a country, you should also be notified to the local Estonian embassy. If there are major accidents, if there are any recommendations that need to be given to Estonian citizens, it is always useful that the embassy has people's contacts. Last time, for example, in the case of terrorist attacks in Belgium. We know that there are thousands of Estonians living in Brussels and, of course, it is important for us to have a full overview of them. It's also important for their own safety, I believe. What can be done to make the people of Estonia live more in Estonia and less abroad? As has been said, I do not want the feeling that as Prime Minister of Estonia, I would say that do not live abroad or do not pursue a career, for example, in multinational companies that have their head office in London or New York. Far from it. I think it's important. I also certainly do not want to prevent studying abroad. On the contrary, I think it is very positive. Now that people can find their own home in Estonia. This does not mean that they must all be Estonian citizens. I think that Estonia has reason to be open to the citizens of Finland or another country, for example. In addition to the general standard of living, social infrastructure is certainly important for many in order for them to come to Estonia. Depends on the individual, of course, but generally it is that it is safe to have the necessary entertainment and cultural opportunities, etc. I know many foreigners who have come to Estonia because of the rare beauty of nature here. We may be very accustomed to it ourselves, but those countries where more than half of the territory is covered by forest and where it is actually possible to go to a place where there is no one else within a kilometre radius are very few in the world. And there's a lot of countries where it feels like a fairy tale when you talk like that. Recently in Japan, for example, I became very surprised at the number of beautiful natures in Estonia by introducing tourists to Estonia in the public television and radio channels. Such things are actually very rare in some countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U67	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U68	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! It's like I'm getting closer to the country. To preserve the Estonian people, every woman should have at least 2.1 children. But I will now ask you whether there will be at least 2.1 children in your government per minister and whether you personally intend to attack this strategic border and cross it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U69	Thank you. Yeah, it's a five-year goal, and it'll be done in four years. Well, that's a good question. I haven't really counted the children of the government. Once again, as I have already said, the population figures are indeed for women, and there are adjustments to women. We have an average of 2.0 among government women, which is very nicely close to the 'national plan'. However, this does not reduce the need for men to have 2.1 children, just population statistics on women. And, of course, we have members of the government who have at least four children. So I think that mean is going to be close to 2, 1. But what's good news, of course, is that a lot of people are still young, so there's probably gonna be more. And I guess we'll have to work hard to get more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U70	You have to answer the question first. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering your questions, you repeatedly mentioned parental benefit and support for a raised family with three or more children. These are, without doubt, very necessary and important measures. At the same time, demographics have said that a much bigger problem is that we should get to the birth of these first and other children, that we can talk about third and more, and that these subsidies could be longer-term, rather than a large amount concentrated in a single period. But that's it. When we talk about population policy, it is well divided into many fragments: birth, job, integration, etc. Until 2009, we had a seat as a minister of population, and then it was lost. Do you think we need to think in today's situation that maybe we need the Minister of Population again as one who is in the role of coordinator?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U72	Thank you. In fact, of course, every member of the government also has to deal with population issues; this is a very wide range of topics. As for whether a third child can be born without being born first and second, according to my calculations, you can't. Indeed, the births of the first and second children are also very important. There are quite some studies that show that, once again, this is measured again for women, I apologise for the fact that we are so improperly setting gender roles here all the time, but since this is the case, it must be taken to mean that the younger a mother is when the first child is born, the greater the probability that she will have more children. There is a clear logic as to why this is the case, and this is confirmed by studies. What measures work at different stages of the family and which ones do not? I think that parental benefit, which is universal and guarantees all families that their income does not decrease while the child is at home, is absolutely essential. I think that it is also important that the third child's support is exponentially higher. It is not that we want to force people to have a third child somehow by the state, that it looks like it is economically advantageous. Oh, no, far from it! Once again, on the basis of research, the problem is that this decision to have a third child is often linked to economic considerations. If the family senses that this is not economically possible, this good idea will simply be abandoned. The fact that our family's third-child allowance is so exponentially raised that the sum of EUR 300 per third-child allowance can be granted to the child could, in my understanding, remove this barrier, hopefully fewer families will only give up having a third-child for economic reasons. That's the logic. There are also, of course, many other things that can be done. One topic that we were very active in when Paul-Eerik Rummo was the Minister of Population was also to help families who are not naturally able to have children, which is that the state financed infertility treatment. At the time, we significantly increased the state's participation because it was a very expensive procedure, both medicines and procedures were very expensive. Thereafter, the number of children born with fertility treatment increased significantly. But the latest developments have sometimes gone a little bit in the opposite direction. Here, of course, the Health Insurance Fund has a very wide margin of choice, but I have not always agreed with the proposals that the Health Insurance Fund has made: it is certainly not necessary to reduce the volume here or to redirect them in any way violently. I believe that those institutions that have been involved in fertility treatment over the last more than ten years should have a guarantee of funding in the future. There is a great deal of these measures and we could talk about this for a very long time. So I think that Rein Ratas' proposal to have a proper debate on a matter of national importance seems to be an increasingly good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U73	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In today's constitution, the health section equates children's families with people with disabilities. Paragraph 28 states that everyone has the right to health protection, that the state promotes voluntary and municipal care, that families with children and people with disabilities are under the special care of the state and local authorities. The pre-war constitution was different. Special care for children's rich families was in § 21. The family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and for state life is protected by the state. The law provides for the protection of mothers and children, especially for families of children. Do you think the Constitution should change that tonality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U75	Thank you. This question should rather be addressed to your colleague, Jüri Adams. You and I were both at school in 1992, when the Constitution was adopted in a referendum, and our active role was rather modest. I guess in our hearts, we both lived by the fact that the Constitution would definitely get a yes in a referendum. But why is there such an emphasis on one or the other, I believe that, for obvious reasons, it is difficult to comment. At the same time, I do not see anything wrong with the fact that a particular section identifies those people who, in the opinion of the founding fathers of the Constitution, require special attention. After all, we also have a list of criteria according to which no one can be discriminated against in Estonia. And that doesn't mean they're all equalized or that they're exactly the same thing. The criteria on the basis of which discrimination is not permitted are simply listed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U76	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U77	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I think you are also putting too much energy on the idea that there should be more discussions and looking for solutions, in fact, these solutions are all there. One reason is that you keep your coalition partner, the social democrats in such a small brother's role when we talk about national housing policy when we talk about the security of society in general. Just today, your colleague from the government, Jürgen Ligi, said that early childhood education is not their line, it is the local government, the central government has nothing to do with it. The pay of kindergarten teachers is 500 euros in some places, some have 1100 euros. In short, you can see that you simply have not given society a sense of security with your government's policies, and that is why this trend is negative. I propose that you listen more to the social democrats and make different political choices. Believe me, this trend is getting more positive!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U78	Thank you. First of all, I will start from the beginning of this question, and I do not agree with your assessment. In my opinion, the Social Democrats play a very active role in the government, not only on demographic issues, but also on a number of other issues. And cooperation is all right and practical. At the same time, I cannot quite agree that housing is somehow the magic wand that is going to bring more children to the families. I think you can probably figure out how many houses to build in Estonia to do so, so that it would have a significant demographic impact, and you know what this would all mean in practice. It seems rather complicated. Now, with which I fully agree, it is quite certain that municipalities must play a very active role in ensuring early childhood education. By the way, according to surveys, one of the biggest problems is that in Tallinn, for example, young families do not have the confidence that if the period of parental benefit ends in a year and a half, the child will also have a kindergarten place. This is a real problem. And it is not so that all parents can automatically pay the babysitter or take the child to private child care, where a very high place fee is to be paid. I would say that if today there is one thing for all of Estonia that reduces family security, it is that there are serious kindergarten queues in the city of Tallinn and in some areas around it. And as long as these are kindergarten queues, the question for young families is, what happens when the parental benefit period ends and I have to get back to work. In the meantime, on the basis of the specified information, I will answer Peeter Ernits' question on the number of children in the Government of the Republic. In fact, the average number of children of government members is 2.13 per minister, which is close but firmly above the expected birth rate. But the even better news is that already this summer we expect this coefficient to rise to 2.2. In fact, our secretary of defense will be a father for the fifth time in the summer. So stories like this: 2.2 will be the average number of children in our government since the summer. And like I said, I think there's room for more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U79	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, you mentioned parental benefit several times here as such a positive step. At the same time, your own party partner Kaja Kallas recently pointed out that the current parental benefit system increases the pay gap, which means that having children is always a risk for a woman to lose her professionalism that the family's income will decrease, that she will not be able to carry out herself as well as possible later. Since the government is also planning to review the parental benefit system, which has already been criticised by your own party, and to introduce a sensible labour market policy so that women, but also men, should not make calculations, do they commit themselves or create a family?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U81	Thank you. I remember that when we created the parental benefit system and I have a personal connection with its creation, unlike Kaja Kallas or many other politicians, the parental benefit was clearly intended to contribute to the increase in the birth rate. The text of the law corrected this objective a little after that, but the original background was very clear. By the way, Kaja Kallas' father was then head of the Reform Party Group in the Riigikogu and was actively involved in setting up the parental benefit system that we created. And why was that important? I believe that this has already been through this debate several times, perhaps the demographic reason, the confidence of the young family. At the time, parental benefit was also criticised and it was forgiven that parental benefit would not reduce poverty. It is true that there will probably not be much reduction, and there will certainly be more effective measures to reduce poverty. Since the beginning, parental benefit has not been a regional policy measure, for example. He has not treated other things, but he has been very good at giving confidence to his families. Now, if the question is whether a mother or father stays at home with a child is a positive or a negative phenomenon for him, then I am sure to see a positive more than a negative one. Being with a child, being at home with a child should not be taken as a punishment and, in principle, staying in parental benefit is not an obligation for anyone. If someone wants to go to work while receiving parental benefit, that is also possible. This was actually one of my last initiatives as Minister for Social Affairs and it is quite generously paid. If you go to work with the same salary as before you received parental benefit, you can basically get a one-and-a-half-time pay together. That is also possible today. So no one needs to feel punished and forcefully pushed home with a child for a year and a half. First of all, this is not a punishment, and second of all, it is not a coercion for anyone. Today there is a valid rule, and I think it is a very correct rule, that the family itself has the opportunity to decide which of the parents stays at home. Of course, there is a certain part here that can only be done by the mother, i.e. the prenatal period and the period immediately after childbirth, but already a little more than two months after birth, the family is free to choose. All this time, which is about 70 days until the child is one and a half years old, can be a father or a mother at home and may have different combinations according to how the family arrangement allows. It's the family's choice, no one gets coerced, it's up to you. And why is that important? Because we will never be able to prescribe all family models nationally. If we did what Kaja Kallas suggested in this article, we would, for example, brutally discriminate against single parents. The idea was that perhaps not everyone has read this article, so that half the time should be mandatory for a father at home. Mom could be nine months then, and Dad would be nine months. If we made sure that we said that Mom could only be home for nine months, then it would be a clear loss for single parents. There are also, and there are, families where, for one reason or another, the mother or father's job is one that is impossible to stay in the parental benefit. That, too, must be taken into account. Do we have to say in these families that you only get nine months from the country, you don't get 18 months because we think we're smarter than you are, and we'll decide for you? I don't want a country like that! I think that the freedom of choice for families is very valuable and I believe in the wisdom of Estonian families that they themselves choose the best possible way. By the way, if you touch this pay gap and the father's stay at home, it is true that the proportion of fathers is currently only 8%, but this 8% is also much more than at the start of the parental benefit. This has increased considerably over time. And what would certainly help families to be even more free in their choices would be if the parental benefit was not on the upper limit. There are also families where no matter where the mother or father has an income that exceeds that limit, and if this income exceeds the upper limit considerably, this will actually significantly reduce the likelihood of the parent whose income exceeds the upper limit being at home. It's the inevitable. So I find the parental benefit system to be very good in its general principles. I think that, in any case, the free choice of family is better than a national compulsion. We don't have to go into everyone's private life as a country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U82	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I'm opening negotiations. Representative of the heirs Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The opening speech of the conference of the Estonian Population Support Group was given by medical doctor Jaak Uibo, who has been involved since 1996 as a member of Toompea Education Seminar. It is interesting to read the countless appeals sent by Dr. Uibo to various institutions and the answers to them, starting from the President, the National Audit Office and ministers to the rectors of universities. Some replies take note of the appeal, some admit that yes, something is really wrong, but it is a line from another agency. Some of the conversions have been left unanswered, as if a hot potato had been rolled from the hand in one word, it is none of our business. I guess it's not the government's business. In 2009, the seat of the Minister of Population was completely abolished and tasks were allocated among other ministries. In the case of such a division of responsibilities, it is clear that no one is directly responsible for this issue. The anniversary speeches by President Ilves, which, unfortunately, do not have demographic issues among other difficult issues, are also eloquent. Demographic issues, however, are the most important issues in Estonia's life. Is it really less important that the population decline becomes irreversible at some point than some random tavern fight that officials must be deeply ashamed of? The crisis in the social system, which is haunted in the coming years, is one of the results of the population crisis, but unfortunately the Prime Minister does not see it as such. I have the feeling that the reason for the darkness is the lack of Brussels's organisation to deal with the population issue. We didn't get any clear answers today. It's a shame. But hopefully, the ice will start moving, because at least a population policy support group has been set up, and this support group will do its utmost to ensure that this issue is not forgotten but systematically addressed. Of course, it is not possible to increase the birth rate by order; this has not been recommended by the experts. However, in order to find measures, the problem must be recognised as an initiative and systematically addressed, as planned in the late years of the last year. It is surprising that the birth rate is influenced not only by child benefits and other material measures but also by a mere public debate on birth rates. An example of this is from the discussion at the end of the 1960s in the newspaper's Next Columns. For quite a long time, there appeared a heading entitled 'Iive, Iive, Iive', which discussed the survival of the people to the extent that this was possible by the then controlled press. And the result? During 1960-1965, an average of 12000 - 13500 Estonian children were born a year, but in 1968-1972 this figure increased to 13800 - 14500 children a year, i.e. more than 1,000 children a year. And on the basis of a purely debate that affected people's attitudes. I think that it would also be helpful to make one cosmetic amendment to our current constitution here in the Riigikogu, stressing more clearly the importance of children for the future of our country and clearly stating that the family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and for state life is protected by the state. We are trying to make this small change, and perhaps this is a sufficient incentive to start a greater discussion and a more comprehensive agenda to tackle this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U84	Thank you. In the meantime, the details of the government that the number of children will increase to 2.5 in the summer will perhaps increase by the end of the debate. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U85	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, One of Estonia's biggest problems is the lack of paid jobs, which is why people leave the counties to Tallinn, but in the saddest cases to go abroad. However, human emigration increases peripheralisation and actually kills out our rural areas. This trend needs a very clear change. Today we met Estonian farmers and their message was very clear: there is life in the country as long as the village lives, but the village lives just as long as there is agriculture. However, the country has left our farmers in trouble and looking at the economic situation in a world where food is scarce and the situation is getting worse every year, I do not understand in any way how the Government of the Republic has so far not understood that Estonian agriculture has very great potential. The Centre Party knows, however, that agriculture must be the priority, pride and honour of the Estonian state. Now, when you read the Coalition Treaty of the Clothe Government, it's like new jobs are being created in the country. In reality, however, the situation is quite the opposite: the state keeps pulling out of the country. Post offices are being shut down, but also Eesti Energia offices are purely jobs. Farmers are also tightening up their activities because the government has not given enough help to farmers in crisis. This list is still very long, how the Clothing Government behaves in contrast to what it says. Good Taavi Rõivas, it is time to finally take the lead in Estonia, as is appropriate for the Prime Minister. Why don't you start somewhere so that the exodus stops and the land stays alive? Let me give you another concrete example. In order for Estonian farmers to remain competitive and rural development in Europe, transitional support must be paid to them in the coming years, which the Estonian Government has not done in the previous three years. It would allow them to produce domestic food and create new jobs on land. As a result, people would remain on land and should not go abroad to work. However, if the current rural policy continues, life in the country will either die out, or only the rich can live there, because it is really expensive and expensive to live in the country today. And if for the Clothing Government the priority is not number one to keep life in the country, then you should resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U86	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U87	Mr President! Good Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia is undoubtedly facing major population policy challenges. Allow me to begin my brief speech with the former Minister of Population, Paul-Eerik Rummo. He said that population policy needs to set clear strategic goals so that we do not have to run, with our heads scattered, in several directions at once, and do not get caught up in petty pranks. We have built our national self-consciousness on the cornerstone of Jakob Hurda, which said that if we were not given a large number, let us be great by spirit. In other words, we have been deeply aware of our small number and we have to admit that we have to focus on quality. Everyone's health and positive values, intellectual and moral quality, education and education, and good will are more important than our population. At the same time, Estonia's greatest value is our people, both now and in the future, because we are not rich enough to forget or discard even one person. The world is developing and becoming more complex, which is why quality is becoming more and more important, and the goal of population policy is to make the living environment a caring and inclusive one. Our Estonian-language and Estonian-minded public power and the educational and cultural life carried out by the state and our good will and ability to make aliens from other parts of the world their own ensure a sense of social and psychological security. That is why, whether we want it or not, migration policy, i.e. immigration, immigration and return, must be recognised as an integral part of our population policy in order to guide migration according to specific rules, ensure the integration of those who arrive and maintain constant and warm contact with the Estonians who have gone elsewhere. Like one of the previous speakers, I would like to go on the path of history for a moment and come back to the subject of the Minister of Population. The Office of the Minister of Population was a coordinating body, and losing it is a somewhat questionable decision for me. If the coordinating body disappears and the tasks are scattered between several ministries, the ministries will not be able to fulfil this role in the same way. So many new activities will no longer be initiated and the continuation of what has been initiated is in question. There is a risk that, for example, integration will dissipate. Let me give you a few examples. The Ministry of Social Affairs was given family policy and population policy However, the Ministry of Education and Research was given the non-Estonian Integration Foundation, the programme of nationalists and kindergartens. Integration was divided between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Culture, the first was citizenship and migration, the second was cultural issues. Dealing with the repressed was now handed over to the late Minister of Regional Affairs. This is either a relatively clear sign of danger or a fact. For example, until 2013 we had the foundations of population policy, had the aim and were the activities. Are there any today? Of course, we see fragments in national documents that affect population policy. The first to remember is the development plan for the health of the population, but actually also the development plan for well-being, which will soon reach this hall. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U88	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U89	Thank you! However, perhaps today we need a clear direction and a clear message from the country, in its undiluted form, of course. We are not far from the population crisis, and this could also lead to a crisis in the social system. All the more so, we need faith in the future, and by delivering wisely, administrative reform can also contribute to this. By shaping the living environment, we can turn Estonia into an increasingly habitable place, where we are safe to give birth and raise children, the opportunity to get a very good education, to be sure that no one will be left in trouble when we are in trouble or when we are old, and where we have a strong bond with our home, which always brings us back here after our journeys. The current government has justified the establishment of a Minister for Public Administration by the approach of creating new ministerial posts when necessary and abolishing once the need has been removed. So it is the right time to critically ask whether or not population policy is a key issue for our country. In order to preserve and develop the Estonian population, do we need a social agreement in a way that recognises population policy as supremacy in all our activities? All planned regulations must go through an evaluation process or an evaluation filter: whether the proposed measure has a positive or negative impact on public health and demographic conditions. Population policy must be a cross-party, consensual and long-term issue similar to defence policy. This would lead to two higher priorities in Estonia, for which society is making an effort: Estonia's protection and a secure and progressive living environment for all. Siim Kallas said in his speech on Saturday that he wanted Estonia to be the best place to live in 25 years. And he said that because he thought about his grandchildren' choices. This must be accepted, because we want our grandchildren to stay and our population to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U90	Thank you. Mr Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U91	Thanks, manager! Good Prime Minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Obviously, family policy and population policy are twins and twins, and it seems that population policy as a whole also includes family policy, without which it cannot. Therefore, let me remind you again and again of this beautiful wisdom of the Estonian people, that every Estonian family must have at least three children, one father, one mother and one on behalf of the Estonian people, so that it will continue. And when we talk about this birth rate coefficient that we need for the sake of the continuity of our population, this 2.1 already refers directly to the third child. In this sense, I would like to welcome from the heart every step of the government that has given special attention to the birth of a third child. And then it's possible to move on from here, even like the Minister of Defense. The Riigikogu took one worthwhile step five years ago. Five years ago, the Riigikogu approved the norm rules on pending drafts, and there is one provision in this norm rules that says that demographic impact analysis must also be carried out when submitting the drafts. At the humble request of our population support group, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu is currently conducting an analysis of how this demographic analysis has or has not been carried out or has been poorly done in the case of draft laws that have been accepted during the last year. This same population support group has indeed begun the idea of finding either a Riigikogu commission or a political group in this building who, at the wake of this support group's so-called idea, could initiate the discussion of this issue as a crucial national issue in this Chamber. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, that you twice dared to support this idea, as a citizen, as a politician, when you asked and answered questions today. Dear colleagues, it seems that, if the Prime Minister already supports this idea, neither does the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who unfortunately left, or his right hand, or the member of the board, the vice-chairman, who is here, dispute this particularly. So this thing is happening. Therefore, I would very much like our demographic policy to remain a reflection of our political parties and our political groups, which Monika has just talked about here. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U92	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like a word? No, I don't. So we're done answering the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U93	We will proceed with today's third question, which is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep and Andres Herkel, about the general plan of the reform of the state administration and state museums. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U94	Mr President! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! The inquiry submitted by the members of the Estonian Free Party Group was motivated by a very specific writing published in the newspaper Postimees on 4 March. On 4 March, the Postimees newspaper presented for the first time our big plan for administrative reform and a picture of how it could all look. We have spoken about this in this Chamber on several occasions, and I believe that we will talk a lot more about administrative reform, we will discuss it in substance, we will also discuss small details. And I am sure that there is no doubt that the administrative reform is necessary for Estonia. However, the Estonian museum landscape was very seriously affected by one of the statements made by Raido Robi, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, which confirmed that 30 state museums are now under the eye of the heads of the Ministry of Finance, in particular, in connection with the administrative reform. This statement is deeply erroneous and already erroneous in its figures. Firstly, we no longer have 30 state museums, but we have only 15 state museums and also state foundations established in cooperation with local authorities. We still have several museums that have changed their ownership. And all this has taken place since 2012 when the museum community and the Ministry of Culture have discussed together what would be the museums of the 21st century that could preserve and promote Estonian culture, provide education and also be the best entertainment centers. So, first of all, the number was wrong here, but what caused even more serious confusion in the museum landscape was, above all, the statement that the Ministry of Finance is now starting to analyse, look at and evaluate the process that has already started in museums, with the reaction of the officials of the Ministry of Finance or the desire to start reviewing the museum landscape not only astounding but also a number of questions. So our inquiry, which consists of six questions, is driven primarily by a view to the future, looking at the fact that the administrative reform that concerns Estonia as a whole should have been carried out on a value-based basis and also with great dignity. Dignified in all areas, but especially in our culture and education. Thank you and we expect meaningful and very constructive answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U95	Now, I would like to ask the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U96	Honourable Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. Then let's get going again. Indeed, I can assure you that when this story appeared on 4 March, I was convinced already this morning that I would understand in some area and that my prophecy had come true. The first question: 'Do you confirm the statement in the Postimees newspaper that there is a new analysis and a wave of redundancies in the museum landscape? ' I'll start a little further away. First of all, let us say what is at all the aims of the reform of the state, not of the administration, but of the reform of the state and of the reform of government: to provide better services, an efficient state apparatus, good state reputation and less bureaucracy. Among other things, we are trying to keep the general government in the size of the Estonian state that the taxpayer can sustain it. We have set the target that the number of employees in the government sector should decrease annually, in line with the decline in the population, i.e. 0.7% of the circa, or 750 people. We do not have taboo issues in these analyses, we have all the areas on the table, we will listen to all the proposals. This also applies to the cultural sector and museums. However, no final decisions have been made today. Analysis of the country's tasks will be completed by the end of May. There are ten areas of focus, including the area of museums, and let's see how far we can get by the end of May, whether we already have very clear solutions on the table or whether the government office as a whole needs to start making some decisions. So that's the way the analysis is going, we're doing the analysis. I certainly do not automatically agree with this statement, and it has not been said anywhere that museums are now hit by another wave of redundancies. This is not the purpose of this analysis. And what definitely needs to be clarified is that we are doing this analysis and performing this task very closely with the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Finance also has very competent people, including people who have previously held high positions in the Ministry of Culture and are very familiar with this field. However, we are doing all this together with the Ministry of Culture, and this also concerns the Ministry of Culture and museums. The second question: 'Is the excellent results of Estonian museums, also internationally, a weakness of Estonian culture in the eyes of the heads of the Ministry of Finance? ' Definitely not. No official of the Ministry of Finance has claimed this either. Estonian museums have developed well. Last year they also made a new record of visiting museums. Museums are certainly a very important part of our cultural and educational landscape and we will try to continue with this positive development. It is still the point of analysis to make something better and value good steps, to take over the best practices and, among other things, to look for ways to better reward people in this area. The third question: what information has been asked from the source to evaluate the work and activities of museums, and with what do you explain...? In short, they ask where this information comes from, what we use, and whether the data of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture are the same. I can repeat here that we are conducting the analysis in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and I assure you that there are no differences in our plans. We've agreed on a division of work. We are writing down the plans of the Ministry of Culture so far, and we are writing about how to complete the reform of museums, whose very important pillar is the conversion of museums into foundations. We are trying to find ways to improve the management of museums and to organise support services, including by creating a readiness to provide services to foundations using the example of museums at the State Support Services Centre. We have also met with representatives of major museums for their opinion, including the Estonian Art Museum, Estonian History Museum, Maritime Museum, Virumaa Museums, etc. And we use the data that the Ministry of Culture also makes publicly available, even on its website, where it is widely and proudly stated that Estonia has the largest number of museums per 100000 inhabitants from European countries, and that is indeed the case. That's the kind of strong museum people we are. Question 4: "Has the Ministry of Culture, curating museums, not yet done enough analysis, or does the Ministry not have enough analytical competence that another analysis is now being carried out on the initiative of someone else? If so, how has this process of reorganisation been going on for years at all? " Let us say that we have never questioned the work of the Ministry of Culture before, have never claimed or thought that the work of the Ministry of Culture was somehow wrong or wrong. On the contrary, we recognise it. The Ministry of Culture has been working for years to achieve this situation and several changes have been introduced in the museum network, including the merger of museums. Together, we have found that the analysis of the country's tasks is a good place to record a comprehensive vision of the future of the museum sector. In this sense, it is not a completely new issue or entirely new thoughts, rather a focused writing of them. Question 5: "What is the moral and legal basis for the officials of the Ministry of Finance [... ] by interfering with the organisation of the administration of ministries other than equal government institutions? ' The analysis of the state's tasks was assigned to my responsibility as Minister of Public Administration. At the Ministry of Finance, the coordinator of the analysis is the Department of Public Administration and Public Service, which is responsible for the development of the public service under the Ministry of Finance's statute, the human resources management of public authorities and the design of the basic policy of the organisation of the state administrative organisation. Administrative policy is a cross-ministerial area of policy coordination, which is why we work closely with other ministries in most cases. So looking for the best work models is not my right, but even my moral, political and legal obligation. Question 6: 'When and for what does the Ministry of Finance have analyses that a big merger saves money? The reality indicates that, on the contrary, too big cultural institutions become inflexible, the importance of bureaucracy is increasing, because large systems need it, there is a loss of quick judgment, because the chain of decisions becomes too long, etc. ' We would like to give a good example here of the Museums of Virumaa Foundation, as well as the Museums of Haapsalu and Läänemaa Foundation, where mergers have brought significant benefits to the quality of management, optimisation of support services and improvement of the quality of content activities. They have also increased their own revenues. For example, in the case of Virumaa Museums, own revenues already account for 62% of the annual budget. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U97	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm coming to that support center. A number of museums have criticised, especially when the centralisation of accounts started, that, due to centralisation, museums are now unable to monitor their own revenues so effectively. In particular, this has created problems for some major European cultural programmes that require very accurate accounts of the money used. Please tell me where you see this revenue generated by the centralisation of support services, in particular accounting. Has it been analysed and how well it works?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U99	Thank you. Firstly, it must be said that there is room for improvement in this area, yes. In itself, we want public authorities to switch to integrated accounting and economic software, and this requires specific sector-specific developments. In the case of foundations, for example, if there is a question of self-revenue, certain developments must be carried out and the State Support Services Centre must carry them out. But has this centralisation of support services, consolidation had a tangible effect? Yes, absolutely, only the week before last did the State Support Services Centre make its next annual summary and these numbers are black white rated just a third less people do this work and the financial savings are tangible. At the same time, it can be seen that the quality of the service has increased, and it is also positive that customers' estimates are very high. In a ten-ball system these points are given there, these estimates are high and even increased over time. Although it is logical and in some ways inevitable that there will be many changes during the transitional period, some confusion and adaptation may take time, we can see that we have indeed had tangible results in this three-year period. There is no need to fear this consolidation of support services, institutions can focus on their core business and professionals in support centres, it is right to use the word 'competence centre' in the best sense of the word to do the whole technical side. I would also like to remind you that we have agreed with the State Support Services Centre that these jobs can be taken out of Tallinn, which is, I think, a very positive step in regional policy. And now we have approached the matter so that at least half of the jobs that move to the State Support Services Centre are created in Tartu and Viljandi, where we have our own support points. So there is no need to fear this consolidation; so far, experience has been positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U100	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U101	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! First of all, did I get it right that this analysis is being prepared directly on your order, direction and responsibility? And please tell me again what you're gonna do about all this. How do you intend to use these analyses, what kind of proposals will you make to the government on this basis, and what will become of all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U102	Thank you. Yes, we will prepare, by the end of May, an analysis of the country's tasks, with ten focal areas, one of which is museums, but there is also the health sector, the transport sector, the implementation units, the business support area. This is a very broad document that we really do not only in the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has a coordinating role in particular; we have a very small team that does this work. So a large part of the inputs come from the ministries of industry, some consultations and analyses we have bought in. Logic is that we have an overview of each area, an international comparison, as well as proposals on how to act in the future. In certain areas, we are probably about to table a consensual proposal as to what decisions the government can take. In some areas, there are perhaps issues that require a decision by the Cabinet as a whole, for example in areas where different ministries do not agree with each other. I can simply give an example of the issue of dealing with mineral resources, whether this centre of gravity should be more in the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Ministry of the Environment. There are clearly the arguments of both ministries. We may not be able to reach a final consensual decision there by means of agreements between us, and such decisions will then come before the government. But in addition to these ten focus areas, we have a number of other topics or suggestions that have hatched in the three-quarters of the year we have done this analysis. So this will certainly not be the last analysis of the country's tasks. We are likely to do so as a follow-up every year. So this is going to be, I think, a very interesting reading of how the Estonian state works, where there are our officials, where they are geographically located and international comparisons there. We hope to do this work by the end of May, as agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U103	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You said that in the course of the administrative reform, the museums would also form foundations. Will the state museums remain, what they are and what analysis is the basis of the choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U105	Thank you. Indeed, the Ministry of Culture has consciously taken this course since 2012, i.e. to change the legal form of museums, to turn them into foundations. I understand that there has now been a clear view that the Estonian National Museum will be the only state institution or state museum. For others, the direction is to turn them into foundations that ensure a more flexible governance model, that their revenues can be better earned and used, and that the founders and board members of the foundation contribute more clearly to the management of this museum. So it has indeed been aware of politics and positive examples by the Ministry of Culture for four years now. Only recently, a few weeks ago, we made a similar change to the sports museum in the government, and together with the Estonian Olympic Committee, the sports museum will be established and reorganised. So this is really the direction taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U106	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U107	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your meaningful answers. Ladies and gentlemen, good people's representatives! I was very pleased to hear from the Minister that one of the ten areas of focus is our museums. Estonian museums are worthy of praise, are worthy of respect and are truly among the most successful museums in the world from their level. And for that, we must be grateful to our museum staff. A lot of work has been done, a lot of work has been done. What I do not want to agree with is that these museums need to be reorganized, analyzed, reevaluated, because it has been done with the involvement of the best specialists in the world. And we have reached a level where it is also optimally appreciated how, for example, county museums can function as foundations of the state and local government so that they are primarily open to their local people. For the first time, I regret to hear that it is so serious that we also need to look again at their staff and the money they spend in museums and what it would take to keep museums. Let us remember, in 1909, when the Estonian National Museum was created, Villem Reiman said that at that time there were 800 people in Estonia listening clearly: 'Only a stupid nation can't see and appreciate the value of the museum, because a stupid nation doesn't learn from everything that has been, doesn't learn from the wisdom of its ancestors. " To learn from the wisdom of the ancestors, however, it is necessary to gather and know this inheritance. And that's what our museum does. In 1911, Jaan Tõnisson, addressing all Estonian common characters, societies and institutions, gave a very clear message to the people: 'The museum is the one who raises, educates and maintains the spirit of the values needed to advance. " In 1936, Konstantin Päts said in an attempt to introduce such a national and one ideology: 'The museum carries the healthiest and most clearly mature spirit of our people. " We cannot say today that the museum must only work within the limits of its educational mission and offer the possibility of keeping collections. The museum is the land of opportunity. It is our great desire that, by implementing administrative reform, state reform, reform of government, let us not lose in any area all the good that we have created, which is specific to us and which cannot be created, created or carried forward anywhere in the world in this form. Let us make reforms, but let us still make them very wise, keeping everything good and valuable and cultivating it, not breaking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U108	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? No, it's not. So we're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U109	We will proceed with today's fourth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid, Märt Sults, Erki Savisaar, Enn Esmaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Andrei Novikov, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu, Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Anneli Ott, Olga Ivanova, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru, Mart Helme and Arno Sild. The inquiry is about the acquisition of the icebreaker Botnica and is presented to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaanus Karilaidi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on 9 March, 22 Members from both the Centre Party and the EKRE asked about the acquisition of the icebreaker Botnica by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. The nature of the problem is that the acquisition of the icebreaker was already discussed for a very long time before it was acquired: in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. They were talking about building a new icebreaker, getting ready for design, but for some reason, everything wasn't finished. A broker, who brought it to us, was found somewhere, "intermediately" from the Finnish state to the Estonian state. For some reason, it was decided to purchase it without public procurement, although there were different indicators that the price of this vessel would be much cheaper than EUR 50 million. Somehow, no specific analysis or expert opinion was carried out to verify this price. All of this was based on very clay feet. But this deal was made because it had been talked about for so long and it had to be done. The second intrinsic question inside is that if the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, through the general meeting, instructed this 50 million-million-dollar icebreaker to acquire, somehow the Council resisted. The Council set some conditions, but it was acquired, although there were different opinions. And, as you know, this issue has been incorporated into the criminal proceedings of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which investigates a major corruption case. With regard to this, we have five questions in particular and we expect precise and meaningful answers from Kristen Michal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U111	Thank you. And now I ask you to answer the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! As usual, I'll answer according to my abilities and read the questions to make the picture clearer. The first question: 'What analysis, assessment by the Ministry's respective committee/team or other documents was the basis of the minister at the time when he ordered the Tallinn Port in 2012 to acquire an icebreaker? " To date, the acquisition of an icebreaker was not a completely new necessity or concept. The state of Estonia's ice-breaking capacity and its shortcomings had been dealt with by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for a long time, and this is reflected in both Estonian maritime policy and the ice-breaking development plan. In March 2006, the government office approved the development plan for the icebreaking of Estonia for the years 2006 to 2013. The icebreaking development plan stated that in order to provide icebreaking services in the Gulf of Finland, Estonia needs at least three multipurpose icebreakers. The development plan provided for the immediate start of the construction of the first ship. The construction of the new icebreaker, which was actively started by the Estonian state in 2007, stopped due to the lack of state budget resources in 2008. An alternative solution had to be found to ensure Estonia's ice-breaking capacity. I assume these are the reasons that pushed the decisions at the time. The second question: 'Why was the acquisition of an icebreaker by means of public procurement, which would have been more transparent and which would have grounded the potential risks of corruption? ' When determining the status of Hankija, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance was asked at the time and the question was analysed by experts of MKM and it was concluded that the Port of Tallinn AS is not a contracting authority. As a result, the Port of Tallinn was not obliged to tender for the purchase of the icebreaker. For one reason, it can be assumed that the fact that the market for the sale of icebreakers is extremely limited and that open tenders are not carried out on this market was an important part of the decision. As is said not to be available today, there was no operational and newer icebreaker sales in the icebreakers market in 2012, at least 20 years old. The right to decide whether or not to conduct a procurement (also on a voluntary basis) was exercised by the Port of Tallinn. The third question: 'What would have been the damage to the Estonian state if one or more years of icebreaking had been rented from Finland or Sweden, for example? " Probably requires clarification that an icebreaker is not a common commodity, the chartering or purchase of which is possible and easy to realize at any time. Icebreakers are usually built for countries to protect national interests or for large oil companies to work in polar areas. There are a limited number of icebreakers worldwide and they are usually covered by long-term contracts or commitments. In Finland or Sweden, for logistical reasons, some icebreakers do not stand alone in the winter period. All icebreakers there have a contractual obligation to serve their ports and transit corridors. If the Gulf of Finland is in ice and an additional icebreaker is needed in Estonia, then there may be a similar situation in Finland and Sweden. During the same period, the Gulf of Bothnia is always in ice, and the icebreakers of the aforementioned countries are all busy breaking ice in their waters. The Maritime Administration tried to get an icebreaker from Finland to help when the ice conditions on the Estonian coast and sea areas were difficult. At the time, Finns responded negatively to the relevant referral, as we and they, Finland and Sweden, are generally facing severe ice conditions at the same time. This practice does not cover specific situations. In special cases, icebreakers in Finland may come to help us for a short time. For example, when due to the strong northern wind, the Estonian coastal area is full of scuffle ice, but the situation on the Finnish coast is somewhat easier. Similarly, we are ready to help the Finns when they have a serious situation. Cooperation platforms have been set up for this purpose. When we came today, the icebreaking situation changed last year: we signed a memorandum with our Finnish and Swedish colleagues for cooperation on icebreaking. Thus, in this area too, the ice has finally been broken. Question 4: 'What is the responsibility of the Port of Tallinn Council in this process? If the minister at the time had ordered the purchase of a ship for example EUR 200 million, should the corresponding order of the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn have also been complied with? ' The Council of the Port of Tallinn decided to acquire Botnica at the Supervisory Board meeting in October 2012. Such decisions are within the competence of the Council under the Commercial Code. On the grounds that the execution of the icebreaking works is not one of the main activities of the Port of Tallinn of AS and is an extremely large investment, the decision was made on the condition that it would enter into force by adopting the decision of the sole shareholder to give the Port of Tallinn its consent to the relevant transactions. The Council requested the sole shareholder's decision under the Commercial Code. The sole shareholder's decision of 18 October 2012 on the purchase of Botnica was as follows. First, the Port of Tallinn must submit an offer to purchase ten-year icebreaking works organised by the Maritime Administration with a yield of 5% per year. Secondly, the Port of Tallinn must acquire an icebreaker up to 50 million euros at the price of Botnica, provided that a ten-year contract has been signed in advance with the Maritime Administration. Thirdly, the Port of Tallinn must ensure the annual rate of return recommended by the project at 8,1% and in order to achieve this, it is necessary to make maximum use of the possibilities of finding an application for the icebreaker outside the time period for the provision of icebreaking services. And fourthly, the Port of Tallinn must take up a loan of up to 50 million euros to acquire the icebreaker Botnica and accept the mortgage of the icebreaker to be acquired as collateral. Speculation of the purchase of an icebreaker used at unreasonable prices, as mentioned here too, is quite arbitrary with EUR 200 million. By decision of the sole shareholder at the time, the purchase of Botnica was subject to an upper price ceiling, the more expensive of which should not have been the purchase of the ship. The $200 million price for a used icebreaker cannot be considered reasonable. Question 5: "How was it possible for the Council at that time to assess the adequacy of the cost of acquiring Botnica and its compliance with market prices in the absence of the relevant assessments of a particular vessel and other reviews of the icebreakers offered on the market, as well as the possibilities of renting them for the winter navigation period? ' The information on which the decision-making process at the time is based is likely to be best assessed, the Port of Tallinn or the decision-makers themselves could give an overview. It's more difficult for us to judge from the side. According to internationally accepted evaluation criteria, it is not easy to demonstrate that the sale price of the vessel corresponds to the market situation of the sale/purchase in the case of icebreakers. There is essentially no public sale of similar vessels, because multifunctional ships are simply not sold. State-owned ships are kept only for public interest reasons; in the private sector, large companies in the oil industry and the gas industry may have an interest in multifunctional icebreakers. In December 2015 and January 2016, Deloitte carried out two assessments of Botnica in Germany and London, with prices of USD 50 million and USD 45 million respectively. Based on the world-renowned offshore brokers' market review, the prices of offshore ships of the Botnica-like and age icebreaking class are approximately EUR 60 million, but still none of them are available for sale. It's also the best idea of what Botnica's value might be right now. Question 6: Does the inclusion of a 10-year service contract in the purchase of ships follow the good practice of public administration and how many similar examples can you draw from the practice? The Port of Tallinn's interest in the purchase of Botnica in AS was explained to relate partly to the fact that the ship would provide inter alia icebreaking services in Estonian waters and thus ensure the opening of the port belonging to the public limited company for a year, as well as other ports, even in difficult ice conditions. However, in order to mitigate the company's business risks, Botnica's purchase was only formalised after it was clear that the Maritime Administration needed the services of Botnica and that the ship had a first service contract. In the overall view of the State, it is also normal for companies to be allowed to participate in the procurement, which still have no means of procurement, be it an aircraft, a bus, a train or a ship, but which acquire it within the time limits prescribed for the procurement. Finally, I would like to add briefly that, as the inquisitors have pointed out, and also orally, this material is available to the Estonian law enforcement authorities, and it is certainly more detailed than it is possible to deal with here. Law enforcement bodies also need to assess whether there is a reason to look at this case more closely and whether there are nuances that refer to a non-fair game. When this assessment comes, we will probably be wiser to read the decisions at the time or to ask for further explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U113	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U114	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! For you, as a so-called statesman minister, aren't there any questions about the fact that there was a broker who brokered this ship, the minister accidentally set a limit of 50 million and ended up being a 50-million-dollar ship? The broker who brokered the ship sold it to the state and later became the manager of the ship by a subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn. If you look at the broker's fee he gets for this job, I think it was over 8,000 euros, and if you look at the salary level that the police and Border Guard Board's crew gets, it's five or six times the difference. Doesn't this seem weird or unfair to the whole process that's been going on with this icebreaker?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U115	Thank you. Maybe the question wasn't on purpose, but some of the nuances were messed up. Let's try to focus on what we can evaluate. Has this process been carried out in the way it should have been done? As I referred to before, and you also referred to in the questioning, law enforcement authorities are currently assessing whether the date of action of the people was as it should be in the Estonian state according to the law. And then, if there is a one-way or the other assessment of whether or not there is a sign of crime, we can discuss this issue in more detail or ask for more information if necessary. Today, let's say that, in the case of different decisions in public administration, situations that may cause apparent conflict should definitely be avoided, at least in the case of information that is public. It is, above all, the same question that the same people who have been involved in making these decisions and procurements have later come to the state's pay. This fact, of course, is not problematic when a person who works in the private sector and is able to do something well comes to the state's pay; it is all perfectly understandable; it is simply in these decisions that these decisions and subsequent actions must be separate. I think that's what the law enforcement authorities are gonna appreciate now, and if they find out a problem, we're gonna find out. If there's no problem, you don't have to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U116	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U117	Good President! Good minister! Despite the long ten-year agreement with the Maritime Administration, it became clear that due to the very low oil prices and sanctions against Russia, Botnica lost her contract of additional work last year and made quite a loss. What was the loss last year, what is the planned losses for that year, and are there any signs that new contracts are underway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U118	Thank you. These numbers have all gone through the public, and it may be too early to publish these forecasts today. Let's see how this year develops. But what can be said is that Botnica's team and Botnica's so-called administrative part, all that concerns its administration, have actually been transferred to savings mode, and there are a number of jobs in which they will see if they can be obtained in the coming months. As it is still a business side of the company, this information cannot be released until the contract is reached, but I know that such activities are being carried out. Among other things, where a ship is standing, costs have been reduced, including mechanical and technical costs, as well as the salaries of the crew and of the administrative part. I think that's the way to go, and let's hope there's more. But this withdrawal is indeed, as you mentioned, largely due to sanctions against Russia. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U119	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U120	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that law enforcement authorities are now dealing with the matter and are making their own assessments. Clearly, they are dealing with the issue from a legal point of view, but what is your opinion: were the decisions of the government at the time correct politically and economically? I understand you've already explained that these were like correct and correct decisions, but was the procedure itself correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U121	Thank you. Let's say that what law enforcement authorities are currently assessing is, in fact, the question of how the acquisition of this ship was carried out, whether there is a potential conflict of interest. No other possible irregularity has been assessed in this respect and has not been seen in this case either. If you now ask whether the Estonian state needs ice breaking capacity, I think that no one in this Chamber is saying that it is not necessary. As long as we're still in the North, sometimes there's ice to break, there's nothing to do. However, potential apparent conflicts of interest should certainly be avoided. The current situation is, in fact, because these stages have perhaps not been so clear and distinctive for the public. Once again, let the law enforcement authorities do their work, this procedure is wider, the information is certainly more detailed there than we can deal with here, and then we can go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U122	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, I need to clarify my question a little bit. This acquisition of an icebreaker is one of the real examples for which state reform is needed. In this way, let us say, making expensive investments also shows, of course, the hypocrisy of the rulers. I was surprised today by the modesty of Kristen Michal in the thorough autopsy of this issue, from political, ethical and moral prism, that the final assessment and response of the law enforcement authorities is expected. It is obvious that if we put together the various pieces of this case, we can no longer say that it has been done professionally and in a statesmanly manner. If a broker wants to broker a ship, the price will be found somewhere at EUR 50 million, which coincides with the price of the ship that is being brought here, and there will be no trade, no public procurement. Although we know the parish elders and local government leaders, who are 15,000 euros over 20,000 euros under criminal investigation. We know the parish elder who was the subject of a criminal investigation because he accidentally took home the tires and the flash drive. The economic police became very keen on car tires and flash drives. But right now, government politicians are raising the eyebrow to some trivial 50 million euros and saying, "But what's the big deal?" After all, no one today disputes in itself whether an icebreaker is of course needed. But if public administration works in this way, so opaque, it only raises questions. And if later this broker becomes chairman of the management board of the newly created subsidiary without a competition, and his salary is EUR 8 000 and the wages of the crew are four to five times more than that of the Police and Border Guard Board, I saw that in the Police and Border Guard Board, the captain of the ship receives EUR 1100 to 1200, it raises questions as to whether it was very, very useful for anyone to carry out this transaction that such contracts were concluded. So this is a real example of why we urgently need state reform. All the more so since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a number of state-owned companies that are mixed up in their corruption cases. It now turns out that the Ministry of Finance, which has not requested public procurement, has also been drawn in. So the reform of the state will already have a more pronounced dimension in one of these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U124	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. So we're done answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U125	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta, Enn Eesmaa, Erki Savisaare, Kersti Sarapuu, Toomas Vitsuti, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Jaanus Karilaidi, Olga Ivanova and Märt Sults on public procurement of study materials. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, One very important, topical and exciting public procurement became the basis for this inquiry. Why important? He is already important in terms of the subject, because the public procurement deals with the teaching of Estonian in Russian schools. He is topical and innovative because he is web-based, almost like some kind of Estonian country's valiant project, because we are always talking about being an e-state. He is exciting because the disputes about the content of this procurement and the risks that it may pose were already ongoing before the call for tenders was announced. The publishers claimed that the procurement terms were not reasonable, that they were not feasible and that the quality of the procurement could not be guaranteed. It became quite exciting when the works were revealed and the winner was announced. And this large educational project, which was intended to provide the Russian-language school with a total of 1600 lessons, all of its lessons at three different levels, along with teacher's guidance material, was won by the little-known flower shop OÜ Hevami. According to the commercial register, the activities of this company are the retail sale of flowers, plants, seeds and plants and fertilisers in specialised stores and hairdressing and other beauty services. All of this is quite difficult to relate to the issue of teaching literature. There was also uncertainty in the provision of general information. And in all of this, ten signatory members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, which has a total of seven points. Old practice makes no sense for me to read them, because the Minister will be more comfortable to answer if he can choose his own points, even in a more logical order. So that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U127	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Minister doesn't have the pleasure of answering anything. He doesn't know exactly what you know for some reason. I have no interest in the so-called winners of specific public procurement. My interest is that procedures are in place and people are trustworthy. I didn't exactly catch up on what's so wrong here, but let's try to figure it out step by step. First of all, the first question: "What are the most important activities of the Ministry you manage for the development of digital educational resources for general education schools and the financial means to achieve these objectives? ' We provide schoolteachers with a grant of 57 euros per student per year, i.e. almost 8 million in total, which can be used, among other things, for digital learning resources. In order to support the use of digital learning property, the Ministry has developed the portal e-Koolikot. We commission educational resources in these areas of general education and vocational education and on subjects where it is not available or where the available material does not support the achievement of the learning outcomes set out in the curriculum in the best possible way. And the budget for the measure until 2023 is EUR 40 million. Question 2: "How to explain the rejection of authoritative textbook publishers [... ]? How do you assess their claim that the competition 'The idea contest on digital learning material based on web was weakly prepared and the resources allocated and the tasks set out were incompatible? ' I don't know what to say. After all, the losers can always blame the public procurement is one of the most conflicting issues, they are always challenged. First of all, the principles of digital learning assets developed by the state have been explained to publishers, they know them. They have been explained at various meetings. The announcement of the announcement of the competition was sent to the publishers by e-mail and was also the subject of a press release. It's hard to assume it didn't make it, but letters and meetings are a fact. The design contest was an open procedure, the announcement of which was repeatedly brought to the attention of the publishers. On the quality of the initial task, I cannot answer. I don't know exactly what they were throwing at me. I generally believe in those people who have done this work before, but nothing can be ruled out if you look at it in detail. I don't think you're gonna get an accurate assessment of me here. I don't dare catch air claims like that. The initial task made it possible to present an idea plan for all and part of the school levels, so the tenderer was allowed to choose the appropriate approach and the appropriate budget. The third question: 'We ask your assessment of the existence and quality of the teaching tools of the Estonian language intended for Russian schools at all, and we also ask you to mention the major advances and bottlenecks in this area. ' Between 2014 and 2015, the Ministry analysed the Estonian language level of children with different mother tongues and the performance of Estonian-language studies in Estonian general education schools and, among other things, insufficient educational literature meeting the needs was presented as one of the problems. The proposals based on the analysis can be found in the section 'Russian School of Study' of the Ministry's website. In October 2015, the Ministry announced an open design contest with the aim of finding ideas and then developing or acquiring digital learning material supporting the learning of Estonian by students with a different language of instruction. Question 4: 'We ask you to show us the process and results of the preparation and conduct of the public procurement 'The idea contest on digital learning material based on the website to support the learning of Estonian as a second language in a basic school (Schools I, II and III). Please explain what were [... ] results. The point is that there is a contradiction between the title of the procurement and the content of the tender, which creates the prerequisites for litigation in parallel with the 'idea competition' and'ready products'. ' Due to the analysis referred to in paragraph 3, the Ministry addressed all registered publishers of study literature in writing last February, asking for feedback on the activities of publishers in relation to educational material aimed at students with a different language. In October 2015, the Ministry announced an open design contest with the aim of finding these ideas and then developing or acquiring digital learning material supporting the learning of Estonian by students with a different language of instruction. In accordance with the rules laid down in the Public Procurement Act, design contests may be organised with a view to concluding a service contract with the winners of the design contest or with a view to finding only an idea suitable for the contracting authority. A total of five drafts were submitted to the tender. The competitions were evaluated by a jury composed of an expert in immersion and a teacher trainer, an expert in Estonian as a second-language teacher and immersion, and a former teacher of Estonian as a second-language language. Next, on the basis of the jury's assessments, a ranking was established and, according to budgetary possibilities (i.e. EUR 130000) and the proposal for the cost of the works, only one bidder could be selected, with whom to continue the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. In accordance with the conditions laid down in the law for the procurement documents of the design contest, a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice is currently being prepared, as the terms of the open design contest provided that the winners of the contest would continue the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. In the title of the procurement, there was a clear reference to the design contest, which the applicant has repeatedly pointed out in his questions, as well as in the procurement documents. So it was still just a design contest, and we don't know the contradictions. If you say that there was some contradiction between the title and the content of the tender, then the tenders are confidential. I personally don't read them, and they can't be known to third parties. However, we confirm that there is no contradiction between the content of the procurement documents and the content of the winning tender. That's what the people who do it are telling me. Confirm and trust. 'What criteria were used to assess the teaching competence of OÜ Hevami, the winner of the above competition, and what are the achievements of this private company so far in the field of pedagogy? " The ideas of the design contest were expected precisely from the wider circle, giving the opportunity to participate in both experienced learners and new players. Neither the content nor the cost of the design designs were known in advance for this procedure. Conditions were not submitted to tenderers as legal persons. It was conscious. Ideas are still born in people's minds who don't necessarily have to be the ones to do it. The competence of experts involved in the implementation of ideas and ideas and the team as a whole were assessed. And the evaluation criteria are found in the procurement documents. In itself, there is no reference to the team here by chance, the experts were present on this team. The person who was the legal key person does not have any meaning in this case. Legal persons can also be rooftops for new activities; there is no contradiction here. Question 6: 'Because, by the time the question is answered, the project 'piloting' in schools, which started on 1 March, has already started, we will be grateful if you show us how this phase of work has progressed so far. " The development of learning property has not started, my answer is. As a result of the technical specifications of the tender document, this was an indicative timetable adapted after the award of the contract. The preparation of the negotiated procedure without prior publication has indeed begun. Question 7: 'In order to create modern and innovative (digital) educational resources in general and vocational education, there is still EUR 6170117 million in the 2016 budget. Can the Ministry's current practice (name of the procurement in J.L.) be assumed to be [... ] does not go to schools so that they can choose and purchase educational resources, but remain at the disposal of the Ministry of Education and Research and are used in the same way as the above-mentioned public procurement? ' In the general education field, a specific digital learning material mapping is underway, with about 40 teachers working on it, as a result of which the need for digital learning material in subjects and learning topics is identified. The analysis is also carried out in vocational education. And according to the results of the mapping, the Ministry of Education announces a procurement for the development of digital learning material and for the acquisition of schools. The grant for teaching literature is continued, i.e. EUR 57 per student included in the education grant and is also intended for the use of digital learning resources. Digital learning material prepared for the state is available free of charge to schools and students. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U129	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U130	Thank you. The public documents of this procurement have claimed that the winning work is at www.keeleakadeemia.ee. Can you name a person from the Ministry of Education and Research who has succeeded in seeing this work at this address? I mean before we ask questions. Can you find someone like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U131	No, we're not looking either. It is now an idea and there is no product itself to advertise on that page. But if anyone's found something, there's probably something wrong with him. I think he needs to be checked. This paper doesn't exist in my records. I myself have not checked, but I was assured that it really did not exist. You are currently not entitled to this page because there is no product.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U132	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U133	A little line about this result and the contrast of the procedure, maybe that word sounded so loud for nothing. I assure you, however, that our system, too, has not compared it to the Nordics, orientates to the result. We are certainly in a market economy for the belief that certain areas where competition is involved need rules, but this competition itself, if properly organised, will produce the best result. In this case, I do not know any details that would have prevented a good result. People have developed fantasy, a new team has been created and a new approach to which no one came to compete, and this often happens in a market economy. But I really don't overstate the market fight. As I said, the first initiative on textbooks was rather the inclusion of an independent expert opinion on the principles of the free market economy, which we have dominated very much with regard to textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U134	Thank you. So we're done answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, can you tell me why professional publishers, especially publishers of teaching literature, were excluded from this procurement? Otherwise, a comparison could well be made that if the Road Administration wanted to make a road purchase, for example, hairdressers would be involved. Why do you think those professional publishers were left out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U136	Thank you. I can't explain it because they had a very direct connection with the conference, the letter, and the press release that went to the public. Why didn't they participate? So there weren't enough good ideas. As I said, although the main activity of this core company is to run a flower shop, basically very brilliant ideas can emerge between flowers. And yet they formed a team of masters of different disciplines, and we have no reason to consider the current core business to be the primary. There's no legal obligation to stick to the sale of flowers alone. There's no company selling flowers. They can build a space missile if they find a team like this and do it in accordance with all the laws. There has been no procedural error in this case. Sometimes the market just doesn't work, sometimes just fantasy doesn't work. When it comes to an idea, then not everyone came up with the idea they were looking for.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U137	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U138	Thank you very much. Honourable answer! I agree that it is not every time that people are defined by their profession how successful they can be in another area. The Estonian national epic has been written by men who basically were doctors, as we well know. But my question is that this public procurement has assigned the task of obtaining the entire basic school educational material in three levels of difficulty in four months, with methodological materials, i.e. animations, videos, etc. Like I said in four months. Does that seem realistic to you? It is thought that it will still take a few years, when we say that there must be reviews, there must be time for drafting, editing and testing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U139	Thank you. I don't really recognize it for four months now, but we're still talking about a design contest. It is not quite the case that florists discovered this idea, talent in the new field, but this entrepreneur took a team of specialists who were able to present the idea. And the design of the product is just starting, as far as I understand the process, I'm not there. So you can't say they're florists, and you can't say that someone tried to make a product in four months. What is realistic? Of course, I'm gonna have to believe the people who've been inside and know the process better. There was nothing directly wrong with the deadlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U140	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, we have a wide range of teaching materials: digitally, in the form of a paper edition. To what extent, and if so, do we have a committee that can and can review the quality of these educational materials? Or let's say that there's a public procurement that starts with an idea, then a service is offered and the learning material is completed that goes into general use. Can we even do this quality control and compliance check?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U142	Thank you. I can't. After all, we still have years and years, I don't quite know exactly when it happened, perhaps from the beginning of the 90s, since then, textbooks produced on a purely market economy basis. The textbook will be completed, the author himself will ask someone to review him and all schools, teachers can decide for themselves how much they use any textbook. In general, this connection with the textbook is likely to be much weaker than it was in its own time. Some here have quite a radical view of textbooks, this change. But what I've been able to do when I heard about this system, I don't know how much this has been done before, I have to find out for the sake of history, is that I wrote down a week or a half, two back to the new regulation. It provides that at least one so-called independent review of professional associations must be commissioned and made publicly available, so that the use of the textbook is still aware, based on experts and not on the opinion of the author's own elected reviewer, which is certainly not up to the end independent. Yeah, we have this textbook-making well-marketed, so that's one of the features of freedom. This cannot be considered to be a bad thing until now, as far as I know, the textbooks have still not been very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U143	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U144	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I'm just grabbing up your final sentences. Do you think that the production of textbooks and other educational materials on a market-economy basis has cost us much in these years of independence? Was it the only possible decision at the time, and is it an irreversible process? Has there ever been a debate on the possibility of taking this process into the hands of the state, for example, through a national foundation, we have Innove, HITSA and everything else, or is this subject already behind us today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U145	Thank you. It's more like down to me. From what I have heard and believed, we have come to a regulation that must be allowed to function. I think that control is getting bigger, but I don't really want to go against these freedoms. And imagine that some kind of national commission is better than a view of professional associations, it would be a little different from the state. In general, we have contributed to professional associations and they are no worse than the National Commission. After all, we would basically still be looking for these people in the same place, and Estonia is small and specializations are the same. We would form a similar Commission, but with a stronger national lever. Perhaps this would not be the best either in principle, but the substantive result will not suffer if professional associations give their opinion. A state seal is probably not the best thing in the spirit field.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U146	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! What took place in this competition excited many of my colleagues quite seriously. The point is that digital learning material has been one of the priorities. It has been said that this is the future of teaching literature. And what's to deny, a lot of us are pretty familiar with very good digital learning software. Our universities use the Moodle environment. It's not tomorrow, it's really today. At the same time, we have repeatedly discussed the same subject in our Committee on Culture. And once again, I say nothing personal to the current Minister of Education and Research, because it was before his time, but our talk about the learning environment was answered by the Ministry that there is nothing complicated about electronic or digital learning resources: a textbook must be completed, it must be delivered to PDF and electronic learning resources are ready. At times, however, according to what we said today, I began to feel less concerned, not less concerned, but more seriously. I do not understand why this competition was required in the form that the Minister tried to describe. In this form, it was the day before yesterday's competition, which is the negotiated stage. Publishers claim that they were willing to do meaningful work. It is now being said that it was necessary to create a vision that is not news to anyone or that really exists. What also bothered me was that when I read these materials, I found out that the results were hung up on the web address, and when we asked about the inquiry on March 10th, we tried to find out what was going on with this portal. I asked the Internet Foundation and found out that if you want to register it in your name, it's a free portal. I thought once that we'd make an ugly joke, write it in the name of Aadu Black, and draw a big picture of the fire, so anyone who takes it off can see it. But I thought you shouldn't be so unkind. After we had been handed over, two days later, somebody had made this joke, probably from the project manager's side. And on the 12th of March at 10:05 this portal was finally taken, where the result was to appear, but at that time it was not anyone's. Little bits and pieces like this make it look like it's still some kind of slippery shit. Moreover, the argument that no rule has been infringed is a more serious problem. Krista Aru and I were together at a meeting where the functioning of the various countries was discussed and compared. A comparison was made between the Scandinavian model and the Estonian model, and it turned out that no matter how much we want to get rid of our Soviet past, and although we deny that we are still living in it, it is characteristic of our country to check whether the rules are being respected. In Scandinavian countries, the result is oriented. Even if all the details were reviewed again, and if it were to become clear that it was really only an idea or one idea or a Logo like Welcome-to-Estonia that all the deadlines were preliminary and that they could change later, especially when someone asks for a report, it would seem, in this way, that the call for learning tools was a failure of the national strategy and a waste of resources. That's what we did the question. And just as the Minister said that he would keep an eye on the matter and even turn to history, we will, of course, see what really comes out of this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U148	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U149	We will move on to today's final question, which is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsep, about the progress of Estonian language learning in Russian-speaking schools. It is also presented to the Minister of Education and Research. And on behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U150	Mr President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, who are busy listening to questions and asking questions! I am very happy to talk here about the question that has been made by the members of the Free Party Group on 14 March, on our mother tongue day, Kristjan Jaak Peterson's birthday. The main focus of this inquiry is the work of Russian-speaking schools and, in particular, of primary schools, how Estonian is taught in Russian-speaking primary schools. And it is driven primarily by the clear statements made by the previous Minister of Education and Science, Mr Ossinovski, at the beginning of 2015, how much and how children are taught Estonian in Russian-speaking primary schools. All these directions outlined by Minister Ossinovski were very grateful and very correct. He did not limit himself to teaching in classes, but pointed out, adding very specific indicators as to how many teachers-methods should contribute to teaching in these Russian-speaking comprehensive schools, what should science camps be, how training could take place, so that it would be as if the schools needed to be assisted and based. So the ideas were very varied, very flyy and very true, because if we still care and want our Estonian language to progress, then it is clear that Estonian also needs a wider support area and where, if not among people whose home is Estonia. And especially among young people, because the sooner a child learns another language, the sooner he or she learns the language and the better he or she can live here in Estonia. So we have a total of seven questions here. I am not going to read the questions, because I am sure that the Minister of Education and Science is also very interested in this subject and will read the questions and give them answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U151	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! To put it briefly, my predecessor and I have no differences of opinion on these matters, and neither was he an inventor of these principles. They are still based on expert advice. The fact that these decisions have been made a little more cautiously in Estonia has not come from the opinion of experts, but rather from such caution to avoid excessive pressure on Russian-speaking learners. But time has moved on and the attitude towards Estonian has improved. The first question: 'How has the plan progressed to train comprehensive school and kindergarten teachers to teach in Estonian individually with the help of an Estonian language learning methodology? How many teachers completed this training in 2015? " In general, I am not very fond of anyone if I know that I can do better, but the reply of cheerful officials is that it has progressed well, and I believe in them. If I look into those eyes that are full of heart, I believe in it. More specifically, 160 kindergarten teachers and 145 schoolteachers were prepared last year to carry out their studies in Estonian as personalised counselling, both of which were quite correct figures in my mind. In addition, both Innove and universities have provided a wide range of training courses for teachers and school leaders. And we have created five regional methodological centres: Kohtla-Järvel, Narva, Tartu and two in Tallinn. There have been various events. For example, in June the summer school was for teachers of Estonian as a second language in kindergartens and there were 50 participants. There are more details. Secondly, has the so-called whole school programme been launched, aimed at training the entire school team in schools with the weakest Estonian language outcomes? How do you assess the results of the first year? ' The programme works under Innove. Schools have received support from one another to expand their education in Estonian at Russian-language comprehensive school and 13 schools were invited to participate, whose results of the Estonian-language exam have been good or poor. Within the framework of the study programme, three-year development programmes have been designed for schools, which are carried out by the universities of Tallinn and Tartu. The leadership capacity of school management and the research competence of teachers will be increased. Teachers and managers must be able to see bottlenecks in their work, solve problems and set goals that support student development. The expected results are that participation in the study programme should be brought closer to the efforts of Estonian and Russian schools to design a student-centered school and increase the coherence of Russian-language schools with the Estonian education system. Participation in development programmes should reduce the difference between the learning outcomes of students in schools with Estonian and Russian language of instruction. Life shows that if there is a difference, language skills are the main reason. The third question: 'What specific teaching materials for the study of Estonian have been updated in a year and what are the innovations and how much are they part of digital/audiovisual learning resources? ' The design competition for teaching Estonian as a second language for the development of learning material in basic school has been conducted and the winner has been announced. Further negotiations will take place with the potential performer. At the request of the Ministry, Innove Foundation charts the situation of educational resources. The results of the mapping will be announced by the end of May, and after that, we plan to announce the procurement and purchase, develop, improve, digitize exactly the educational resources that are most needed. The mappings also cover the materials of the Estonian language as the second language of instruction. And by order of Innove, a large-format set of books for kindergartens and first classes has been completed 'Read together! ' a new edition consisting of three interactive and speech development board games by kindergarten teachers, methodological teaching material for the development of the themes of the same books, methodological material for language immersion programmes for kindergarten teachers, introduction of sounds and letters in a partial and two-way language immersion model group, and updated versions of the first-level language immersion programme's curriculum. Fourth: 'How successful has the financing of joint activities of young people in Estonian and Russian (research camps, museum visits, etc.) been? 2000 young people were planned to participate in the programme by 2015. How many young people actually participated? The Youth Meeting programme was launched last year and its funding is EUR 160000. There were 58 applications, 51 of them being funded. In total, there were 78 meetings between youth groups. The pilot project 'Youth Meetings' launched last year brought together nearly 1700 young people living in different mother tongues, mainly Estonian and Russian speaking, which, as I can see, is 300 less than planned, but is not the starting point. 2,000 were probably offered as a round number. Since 2016, schools can apply from the Ministry of Education and Research for project support for non-formal learning activities in the Estonian language. In the call for proposals in March, 41 applications received a total of EUR 260000. The Ministry of Education and Research has decided to support all projects and the exact number of participants will be clear when the projects are over. Fifth: 'How is the application of the intra-Estonian student exchange program? By 2015, 400 student exchanges were planned [---]' The intra-Estonian student exchange programme was launched in 2014 in cooperation with VeniVidiVic. In 2015, 230 young people took part in the student exchange 7.12. I'm from class. Although the number of exchanges during the year was less than 400, the interest of schools has been considerable. In 2014, 180 young people took part in the student exchange, thus increasing the interest of young people in the programme. 'What progress has been made in extending the language immersion programme [---] and providing them with comprehensive support? " In this academic year, the number of immersions has increased by about 1,000. A total of 65 Russian languages from primary school 34 have joined the language immersion programme. In developing the programme, we consider the increase in the number of students to be more important than the increase in the number of schools. It is important to maintain the quality of the programme and, therefore, we will rather contribute to those schools where preparedness is greater. The program is becoming more and more popular. Six kindergartens joined the program last year. Institutions that started working under the immersion programme received membership support of EUR 1200 per institution. All schools continue to receive support for a student in the immersion programme: in 2016, it was EUR 185 per year. And all teachers working under the programme have completed methodological training. Question 7: Have corrective actions been introduced in the 2015 targets? Is the replacement of grammar-based Estonian language with communicative learning, i.e. the real use of language, still relevant and what progress is made? ' The transition from the grammar method to the communicative method was, in essence, already begun at the beginning of our independence, and there is no doubt that it will be dealt with. You've been wanting to ask me something else, I'm looking at, I have papers here. In short, there is this methodology and everything is being dealt with diligently. Corrections. The refugee crisis launched in spring 2015 has affected our priorities. We must be prepared to take young people from a completely different background into schools, and from the beginning it has actually been expressed as a relatively calm optimism. Although schools have been startled by the arrival of potential foreigners, attitudes have greatly improved and schools generally function effectively. We have both the Innoves language immersion centre and the Pathfinder centres that deal with it, i.e. take into account the special needs of children when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U153	Thank you. You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answers, Minister. School libraries, if and to what extent do you have an overview of how well Russian-language school libraries are equipped with literature in Estonian? As we know, one way to deepen and anchor the language you have learned is really when a child reads a book, it is a real paper book or an e-book. What is the situation of school libraries in Russian-speaking schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U155	Thank you. I confess I have no record of this. When I get to the schools, I don't get to the libraries. It is a fact that what to do with these young people today would even read them in their own language would already be three-quarters of the winning, and the second language would probably be counted even less frequently. Unfortunately, reading is no longer popular, if you mean the book. But, yes, of course, the Ministry of Education is not satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U156	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The question is short: are museums also involved in language learning and, if so, how widely used is it used?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U158	Thank you. After all, language learning is not the main language lesson itself or imposing the number of hours, but different teachings in that language. Visiting museums is generally part of school activities, and there is probably something more specific than studying. In general, however, the main place to develop the language in other subjects is the use of the Estonian language, which perhaps develops more inconspicuously than language lessons, which must not overburden children either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U159	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U160	Good President! Good minister! You said that reading has decreased among young people. This has been very much replaced by the audiovisual world. We recently developed a programme such as ETV+. Are TV stations included in the language learning programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U161	Thank you. I don't have the guts to answer now. I haven't looked at the programs with that look. But educational programs are definitely part of public television. I haven't checked if they're working on it. Unfortunately, young people are also pretty sneaky about watching TV, they don't do it either, but they're on the computer. They still listen to the radio, watch TV, and read the book much less than their parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U162	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U163	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! What is the current picture of Estonian teachers in Russian schools, there are enough of them, they are well prepared enough? Are they trained in sufficient numbers and quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U164	Thank you. That's a delicate question. The situation is very different from one region to another and, in some respects, it ties in with the whole of our school network and obviously with the theme of cleaning it up, which does not necessarily mean closing schools, but rather dissociating different stages, investments, mergers and closures, as well as building new schools for consolidation purposes. In doing so, of course, the need for teachers will change. On the one hand, it is a natural age change, but on the other hand, it is also a matter of differences in qualifications. There are, of course, more schools where teachers' language skills are harder in specific municipalities that have tried to circumvent or avoid school and upper secondary school reform. There's an indirect method. We cannot intervene very directly in the activities of schoolchildren, but, by creating incentives, we have a strong influence on the language skills of teachers, i.e. on the composition of those who speak the language and who teach it more. We certainly do not have too many teachers in Russian schools, I think. But it is even more difficult for teachers who can speak Estonian in some areas so well that they can teach their subject in that language, but it will improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U165	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On different topics, I will sooner or later develop links with people with special needs, people with disabilities. That's how I'm gonna get to the subject this time. When we talk about promoting Estonian language learning in Russian-speaking schools and we add special needs or disabilities to it, it gets particularly fragile. Do you have any good example or practice to give, whether or not you have been taught the same target group of pupils with special educational needs and trained their tutors, because several specific skills are needed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U167	Thank you. I'm afraid I have nothing exciting to say to you. This is, in general, still a question of the professionalism of schools, of our methodological assistance and of our additional funding. But as a minister, I wouldn't dare make any generalisation. Children with special needs can be much better in their efforts than ordinary children, but they also have very different special needs. In some cases, it's just that there's no good. So it's a complicated topic, children are different, schools are different. But they are still specially treated in Estonian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U168	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are a number of programs for Russian schools that you read out, and a lot of money has been put in there. Can you assess the effectiveness of spending these programmes and money? Do you have any idea what these fruits are like?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U170	Thank you. I think the fruit is sweet. In these schools, where there is a clear transition to Estonian-language education or a part of the immersion, the learning results are better. And whoever's left out of it, they stay behind. In any case, there is a change of attitude in society as well: parents are interested in obtaining the Estonian language at school and it is no longer so politicised. The results of the state examination of mathematics were even better in Russian-language schools than in Estonian-language schools. They may be focusing on those subjects where they feel more free and where the language problem is smaller, but the fact is that the most important thing is attitude. And the most important thing is that language skills pay off. It is also clearly worthwhile in terms of closing the pay gap: Russians with good language skills earn practically equal to Estonians. There is a difference in nuance and certainly a regional situation, a regional location affecting this picture, but language skills generally pay off, and this has been perceived by the Russians themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U171	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. It was a pleasure to hear your answers today. They were colorful, they were warm and certainly reflected in the general belief that Estonian is expensive and important for all of us. Finally, I would like to tell you about the festival of students' research, where it is especially evident that those young people who have started to learn Estonian in kindergarten, comprehensive school who have participated in immersion, research camps and who have also read literature in Estonian. On 28 and 29 April, our students' research festival will take place. It's a student science festival. And there they study in Sillamäe, they study in Narva, they study in Tallinn or some of the smaller schools with Russian language in Ida-Viru County have written their research in Estonian. I am almost certain that what was in the final round last year will be repeated. When I tried to ask a young person something in Russian, he always said to me: "I can speak Estonian so well that I can present the results of my research in quite clear Estonian. ' And this is what we all want. We want the Estonian language to grow and grow because it has more speakers. But we also want Estonia to be a home for all those living here in Estonia. And your home language is always the language you love. Thank you to all of you who have successfully endured this debate today. Thank you once again to the Minister and also to the guests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U173	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, we have also stopped answering the last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-18_U174	All those who have not understood enough today, or who have asked or wish to speak on any other subject, now have this opportunity within the framework of a free microphone. Free mike. There is no wish to speak. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.50 p.m.
