ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate a draft amendment to the Law on district heating. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U3	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act. I'm sure you're all familiar with this, because the bill has long been dissected in the Estonian media. The authorship of the bill belongs to the Ministry of Social Affairs and is largely based on the so-called Green Paper on alcohol policy from 2014. Despite the importance of the subject and the Minister's promise to adopt this law immediately, the draft has not moved for more than half a year now, being stuck in the government's coordination circle. In the meantime, a number of legislative proposals in the same area have been voted down in this Chamber, on the grounds that a white ship is about to arrive, which solves all problems with one law, but this has not happened. However, the Riigikogu is not only a body that participates in the legislative process but in words, it is a body that is able to work, create laws, shape legal space. Unfortunately, this practice has been neglected lately and the Riigikogu has become the rubber stamp of the government. We have been given the obligation to press the button, but we have been deprived of the right to think and to carry out our visions. It can still be understood that if the opposition's drafts flying into the trash are not allowed to do the right thing in our system, but if the same happens to the government's own drafts, because it is simply impossible to leave political cow trading, then it is already a rotten thing. In some people, this situation is frustrating. There are even people who want to leave the Riigikogu because they cannot carry out what the party must stand for in the government. In essence, this demonstrates the indecisiveness of the government and the lack of ability to work. Honourable ambassadors! I appeal to you to return to your formations. We call on the members of the government to bring Estonia's life out of a paralytic state in which it has been for more than a year. I therefore hand over the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U5	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U6	Dear Riigikogu! I have the honour to question Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Its theme is our membership in international organisations. Estonia is a member of a number of international organisations. Such memberships are understandable in one way. They increase our reputation among other countries, allow for information exchange, direct contacts with representatives of other countries, representation of our interests, i.e. strengthening foreign policy and security. We can have a say in different forums. But it's not always like that. There are a number of international organisations whose membership is a waste of resources whose usefulness for Estonia has become doubtful over time. In addition, the costs of each membership include: membership fee, mission and transport costs for our representatives, reception, administration and other costs that could be saved for Estonia in the event of leaving non-essential organisations. Our State Department budget isn't enough. The money is not enough to make necessary repairs in foreign embassies, and it is planned to close some embassies and reduce staff, which is particularly destructive in a situation where Estonia is applying for provisional membership of the UN Security Council. In this regard, we have five questions for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, two of which I will read about in the short term. How well is membership of all organisations justified for Estonia? Has the government considered reviewing membership in terms of meaning and usefulness and, if necessary, withdrawing from some organisations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U7	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act. As we know, the Ministry of Justice is currently working on the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The so-called fundamental rights package of the Code of Criminal Procedure will enter into force on 1 September. The Centre Party Group still has quite a number of proposals concerning fundamental rights and amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, and this draft reflects these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U9	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 21. Adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the 18th working week agenda for the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the agenda, one abstention, no one opposed. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U10	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have two questions on the agenda. The first inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Dmitri Dmitriev, Valeri Korb, Anneli Ott, Tarmo Tamm, Kersti Sarapuu, Erki Savisaar, Enn Esemaa, Olga Ivanova, Peeter Ernits and Mikhail Korb, is about the decisions of the European Central Bank. The inquiry has been submitted to the Governor of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, and I ask Kadri Samson to speak on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the interview of 11 members of the Riigikogu regarding the decision of the European Central Bank to buy bonds from the secondary market. This project started last year and Eesti Pank has also been working hard on this project. From March of last year until February of this year, bonds have been purchased for 1.5 billion euros, of which Elering's, or Estonian-related bonds, have been purchased for 59 million euros. So we can say that when the inquiry was handed over, our background information was such that every 25th euro went into the bond purchase programme to revive the Estonian economy. The bond purchase programme was designed in its own time to boost the economies of the euro-zone countries. Now that this programme has lasted for a year, on 10 March, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to lower interest rates, extend the large-scale bond-supporting programme and offer banks long-term loans, which are so favourable under some circumstances that banks are paid for borrowing. Three months ago, the European Central Bank decided that this large-scale bond-supporting programme would grow every month from 60 billion to 80 billion euros, as well as broadening the range of bonds that central banks could buy under the support purchase programme. Several analysts have said that this is the last move to boost the European economy. But for us here in Estonia, this certainly means that alongside Elering's bonds, some of the Estonian corporate bonds may prove eligible for purchase. We have been in a situation for over a year where all other countries in the euro area have been able to buy domestic bonds much more than Estonia under this purchase programme. We tried to make similar inquiries to government representatives, but their position is that if, as individuals, they have borrowed themselves several times in several years' budget, perhaps it could be said that they have several hundred per cent of their family's GDP covered by loans, then in Estonia they will stick to the principle that no bonds will be issued for the recovery of the Estonian economy. The central bank, too, has always been very modest in all lending, but in a situation where Europe is obviously printing more money at the full speed, precisely in order to boost the economies of the euro area countries, we also want to get an opinion from a balanced economic expert like the Governor of Eesti Pank. Are we doing the right thing if we behave in an absolutely different way than the rest of the eurozone countries? Thank you for your attention. I will not read the four questions separately. It is easier if the answer reads them before each question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U12	Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning, which focuses on the bond purchase programme of the euro area central banks. I would like to highlight a few basic moments in this regard from the very beginning. Firstly, it is important to talk about the objective. Euro area central banks buy up secondary market bonds to encourage investors selling bonds to invest money elsewhere. This would mean better funding conditions for companies operating in the euro area, including Estonian companies. Since this is a common financial market, more favourable interest is passed on to all parts of the euro area on the principle of connected vessels. Thus, Estonian companies and residents have also benefited from the current bond purchase programmes in the short term. Secondly, I would like to mention that central banks can only buy government-owned corporate bonds on secondary markets. This means that if Eesti Pank buys Elering's bonds for example, Elering will not benefit directly. The investor who sold the bond will benefit, and this investor may be located in Tallinn, Berlin, London or somewhere else. Now, if I may, I will describe slightly more broadly the central bank's activity in managing inflation, because it is a common and main objective of the central banks of the euro area to keep inflation slightly below 2% in the medium term. The activity of the central bank depends on developments in inflation and inflation expectations in the euro area. Recently, inflation in the euro area has been influenced by both global and euro area specific factors. The most influential has been the extreme volatility in oil prices. This has led to a fall in both the price level of the euro area and Estonia. However, oil price volatility is a temporary factor that will only really worry the central bank if the effects of the so-called second round appear, i.e. effects on longer-term inflation expectations or wage agreements. In addition, inflation in the euro area is also affected by an overall weak demand environment and relatively high unemployment, limiting the recovery of economic growth. The European Central Bank has reduced interest rates to the lowest ever levels and has also introduced other monetary policy measures to stimulate investment and consumption and thereby inflation. Given the latest forecasts by euro area central banks, a favourable interest rate environment will remain in place in the coming years. Thus, the monetary policy of the euro area central banks supports the recovery of demand and jobs throughout the euro area. However, it is evident that a favourable interest environment is not the only prerequisite for a return to demand. The euro area economy is affected by an external environment that is exposed to different risks. Recently, global growth forecasts have been regularly cut, and weak external demand is one of the reasons why euro area economic growth has proved to be so poor. However, according to current forecasts, last year is likely to remain at its lowest year of growth in the euro area's external demand and, as early as this year, the growth in euro area external demand is starting to pick up. High unemployment and only partially used production resources are one of the causes of low inflation. In addition to the external environment, this has also been caused by the poor public finances of several euro area countries, which have reduced confidence, as it is not clear with what instruments the poor countries are managing their public finances with. Progress in other economic policy areas is also important for improving growth capacity and achieving the euro area central banks' inflation target. All countries in the euro area need to act consistently to ensure that labour markets are sufficiently flexible and that competition in the internal market is also sufficient; this creates the prerequisites for a return to growth capacity. However, it must be borne in mind that the right to make economic policy choices to ensure growth capacity must be achieved through a democratic electoral process and therefore outside the mandate of central banks. At this point, I welcome the diverse discussion of Estonian politicians and experts in shaping the best economic policy for Estonia. It should be taken into account that the recovery in inflation is a gradual process supported by low interest rates imposed by the central bank. The recovery in economic activity, however, is a much wider issue and cannot only be addressed in the context of inflation. Now I'm gonna answer your questions, there's four of them. The first question reads as follows: 'How do you assess the decisions of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank on 10 March? Is this really the last lifeline for the central bank, which must be enough for economic recovery? ' I say that the future monetary policy rate depends on the dynamics of inflation expectations throughout the euro area. If necessary, additional measures are also required, but any monetary policy measure must also consider the potential risks it poses in relation to the effectiveness of the measures. The reason we developed a corporate bond purchase programme and new targeted operations for banks is that we want to increase the effectiveness of our monetary policy. Both professional market participants and the Eurosystem's inflation forecasts for the coming years show that inflation will pick up in the euro area, but remain below 2%. I am not speculating on possible additional measures, because it depends on the development of economic activity and inflation. The second question is as follows: 'Elering has issued bonds for EUR 225 million. Of these, Eesti Pank has purchased 59 million euros under the bond purchase programme. On what basis has such a volume been selected for purchase? " In reply, at the end of May, Eesti Pank had purchased Elering's bonds for a total of 64 million euros. There are three factors that have affected the formation of this volume: the market supply of bonds, the price for which these bonds are to be sold and the limit of 33% per bond. This limit has been set across the euro area for the reason that, firstly, if the central bank were to buy a very large part of the total volume, the functioning of the market would be disrupted. If we want the price to be essentially based on market principles, there should be some limited participation. Another thing is that if you look at the offer on the market, Elering's bond isn't very liquid, but if you can buy it at a reasonable price, you buy it. Actually, we've almost bought our limit. I don't want to overpay. If you want to buy everything and offer a price that's high enough, of course you can buy it all. But benefactory says you're still paying a reasonable price, and if anyone wants too much money, you're rejecting the offer. The third question is this: 'As of the end of last year, the long-term debt obligations of Eesti Energia included EUR 758 million. As a result of the expansion of the bond purchase programme, can Eesti Pank purchase Eesti Energia's bonds from the secondary market? " In reply, Eesti Energia's bonds can be purchased in the framework of the programme for the purchase of corporate bonds. This program started last week. The risks and benefits associated with the purchase of corporate bonds are distributed among the Eurosystem central banks in proportion to the capital key. Operationally, the execution of purchases is delegated to six central banks specialising in corporate bonds. In total, there are 19 plus 1 central banks in the system and six of them are going to make these purchases. It doesn't matter who actually buys them, because we share revenue and costs in proportion. Eesti Energia's bonds will be purchased by the Finnish Central Bank. It is important to repeat here that although the purchase of Eesti Energia bonds is carried out by our Finnish colleagues, the cost or income generated is shared among all central banks. The limit of 33% applies to Eesti Energia's bonds, which means that they can be purchased up to a maximum of 250 million euros. The actual volume of purchases depends on the provision of bonds on the secondary market and their price. Again, I stress that Eesti Energia's bonds are purchased on the secondary market, which is why Eesti Energia does not directly benefit from it. The last, fourth question reads as follows: 'The Governing Council of the European Central Bank also decided to reduce the deposit rate by 10 basis points to -0.4%. This means that commercial banks will have to pay the European Central Bank for the deposit. How can such a step affect the interest rates of deposits in banks operating in Estonia in the near future? How likely is it to impose a negative deposit interest rate on private deposits by commercial banks? ' I reply that the negative interest rate on the deposit with the central bank has led to a negative interest rate on the money market, and this situation will certainly not change in the near future. However, I believe that banks will avoid imposing negative interest on private savings as long as their profitability does not fall significantly. I consider this decrease unlikely. In other countries, even in those countries where interest rates are even more negative than in the euro area, it is not evident that they are passed on to individual deposits. If you want a legal assessment that our own laws promise or do not allow, then it is best to address the Ministry of Justice, who can best interpret our law of debt. As low interest rates on loans usually also increase loan demand and reduce the number of clients in default, there is also a positive side for banks. Looking at the big picture, there is a need to tilt the balance between savings and investment in the euro area in favour of the latter. This will provide the basis for economic growth, which will allow higher inflation and higher interest rates in the future. In summary, I note that Estonian companies and the state have benefited in the short term from the central bank bond purchase programme because the principle of connected vessels has made the financing conditions throughout the euro area more favourable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U14	Questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U15	Thank you. My question concerns the introduction. In fact, you explained nicely that the secondary market had been bought up last year for EUR 60 billion each month for the money invested in these bonds to be released and used for economic recovery through other projects. But how do you explain that, just last year, in 2015, according to Swedbank's analysis, Estonia reached such a position that the volume of foreign investment decreased for four quarters in a row and reached the lowest level in 20 years, taking into account the ratio to GDP? After all, you also did a very large amount of bond buy-in, but foreign investment decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U16	Thank you for your question. We have also looked at foreign investment statistics and there have been a number of factors in the game from year to year. Often, small countries are also one-off factors, for example, when at some time someone invests very much in Estonia, while at other times money takes out very much. Recently, a number of companies, including banks, have started to pay dividends. As they are foreign-owned, this payment of dividends is reflected in the outflow of foreign currency. So there are certainly many factors involved. Last year, there was such a large payout when one bank paid out nearly half a billion net income in dividends. Such factors alone can have a very significant impact on an economy with a total volume of 20 billion. Of course, it is worth looking at the dynamics of foreign investment, but foreign investment is actually a relatively small part of the whole economy. There is certainly a need to look at general demand; this picture is a little more diverse.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U17	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U18	Thank you, manager. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Here's what I'm gonna ask. We know that Estonia is conducting the most exceptional monetary policy in the European Union: the loan is small, there are no government bonds. In my opinion, it is only our government that welcomes this, and in general it does nothing to help the economy. Recently, our neighbour, Latvia, issued state bonds worth €600-700 million and they received this loan in a very favourable way. For example, could Latvian bonds be attractive for Eesti Pank and can Eesti Pank purchase them? Does Eesti Pank intend to purchase bonds from its neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U19	Thank you for your question. I think the current system is structured in such a way that each country buys its own bonds. The Latvian bank buys, if they have, Latvian bonds and the German central bank buys German bonds. Joint purchases are made as we basically buy bonds from so-called supranational institutions. These institutions are, for example, the European Investment Bank, the Nordic Investment Bank, etc. As regards the introduction to the question, we believe that the decision to borrow or not to lend must depend on our economic economy at national level. The principle could be that if we have worse times and if we have the potential to borrow, more could be borrowed to boost the economy in these times. However, if we are experiencing certain signs of overheating, we might rather borrow a little less and not start heating up the economy. When I presented our annual report here last month, we also talked about these issues. Today, the picture of the Estonian economy is diverse. If you look at the growth figures, they have not increased very quickly and you might think they could boost the economy. But if you look at the dynamics of the labour market and see that in the first quarter, the average wage increased by 8.1% under zero inflation and that the unemployment rate is probably the lowest in our region, then the question arises as to whether we want to start lending more, stimulating the economy even more, amplifying this imbalance. We now believe that the signs of overheating are more evident and, in this context, a close-to-balanced state budget could be aimed at. If the situation is to change in the future and each indicator shows that the economy is in a recession, then of course we must borrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U20	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, The development of the Estonian economy is currently not showing any upward trend. In recent years, it has been seen that there is very little investment in entrepreneurship, despite the fact that basic interest rates and euribor are really very low, precisely with the aim of having a favourable investment environment. Why do you think there's so little investment? Do our companies not have very good projects, or is it because banks operating in Estonia simply have no incentive to finance the investment environment here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U22	Thank you for your question. I think there are a lot of factors involved. Firstly, it is a pan-European phenomenon. If we look at the overall figures, we look at the demand side of the economy, we will see that exports in the euro area are not going too badly; consumption has already started to recover. But everywhere, it can be seen that the component that grows most slowly or does not grow at all is precisely investment. And this is despite the fact that, as you said, interest rates are low and the environment could, as if, encourage it. When you talk to entrepreneurs, in one way or another, all talk goes back to confidence, which is not a very tangible thing. If it is possible to consider whether to start investing, for one reason or another, the decision will be made to wait a little longer. If it is not quite certain that the economic recovery is on a solid footing, if you are afraid that something might turn in the wrong direction again, then it is better to wait a little while. We have observed that there is some acceleration of investments in Estonia in the last quarter. It may not be a constant tendency, but we are seeing some moderate positive signals. So this is, I think, a broader phenomenon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U23	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Hansson! You previously acknowledged the discussion about achieving the best economic environment in Estonia, and in the same response you said that we appear to be at risk of overheating from both wage growth and some developments. What worries us is that you seem to have a discussion, but no concrete steps will follow. The Ministry of Justice prepared the report 'Competitiveness 2.0', but what political solutions this will lead to, we have not understood. That is why I am asking: if you are referring here to labour market flexibility and to boosting competition in the internal market, what concrete steps do you propose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U25	Thank you. The situation is too complicated to start pointing out one or two major areas where something cardinal should be done, to implement plan A or plan B or whatever. It may be a little wrong to try to do it in this hall right now. Last month I told you that if you look at the World Economic Forum indicators, competitiveness indicators, Estonia is about 30th in 140 countries. If you look at subsets or more specific indicators, it's the same for almost every indicator: we're 20.30. present. This suggests that we do not have two or three or one areas where there are insane omissions. It is not that we are very well in one area, but there is a great deal to be done in two or three areas. And if that's true, then it's probably necessary to act so that here and there a little bit, in every area, let's try to move forward a little bit again. But all these things really depend very much on the labour market. If you talk to entrepreneurs, I also participate in a working group set up by the Prime Minister, where we try to deal with these issues, then you might think that there might eventually be some ideas. But we always talk about labour market issues, so that is definitely a key issue. I think that our labour market is quite flexible, and the fact that many people have been able to get a job in the face of labour shortages is ultimately positive. But it is certainly possible to increase opportunities for part-time work and to increase flexibility in other ways. You can also move forward by developing educational policy topics such as higher education, research, technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U26	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In your introductory speech, you spoke about the impact of oil prices on the economy. This price has stabilized, but the most anticipated event is now the British referendum on God knows how it will end. If Britain decides to leave the European Union, what do you think could be the impact of this step on our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U28	Thank you. This is a very important issue. Everything will be clear next week. I think the biggest setback will come politically. And all this uncertainty that may emerge from it, the ignorance that Europe is moving forward to, is certainly not conducive to consumption or investment in a wider Europe and also in our economy. Such political instability is certainly a strong factor. Estonia's direct links with the UK economy are not as strong as the links with its immediate neighbourhood. But this whole event is still very important and will certainly also have an impact on the technical characteristics of the economy, but above all on confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U29	Thank you, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U30	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepp. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U31	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Education and Science! Good people's representatives! On behalf of the seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the request submitted on 5 May was taken up with concerns about the sustainability of our research and innovation. As we know, the great trump of a small country like Estonia could be good education and very good science from a good education. We have top science, we have a broad science. We also have a very good R &amp; D &amp; I strategy 'Knowledge based Estonia'. However, we are very concerned about how quickly we are moving to the target set in this R &amp; D &amp; I strategy so that research funding reaches 3% of domestic production. And how do we get to that? Looking at our country's budget strategy for the years 2017 to 202020, this fear deepened and we prepared an inquiry, which consists of five questions. Since we all know that Estonia's research activities so far have been very strongly supported within the framework of the European Union's support programmes, we will mention some major and important programmes that have now opened up and ask how they have been implemented. Certainly we all know that last week the government made an important decision regarding the institutional development of higher education institutions and research institutions, so the minister does not need to answer one more question, but perhaps he will simply explain the reasons behind the decisions he has taken. We have five questions and I hope that the Minister will respond very kindly to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U32	And in the light of these hopes, the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi will begin to answer. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Actually, I want to thank you, but I don't know what it's like to do it politely. I want to thank you for your honest vote last week. It was a pleasant surprise. But now to the questioning text. In your introduction, you complain that research and development are no longer a priority. That's what I'm gonna push over. He still thinks it is, and we are among the first of the state's spending on research and development in Europe. Science also received a pro-rata amount of extra money in the budget negotiations, and this will certainly alleviate my dissatisfaction with the budget negotiations. I can tell the others did worse. Question 1: 'What proposals and results have been achieved in the follow-up to the report of the Scientific and Development Council, including the review and consolidation of the network of universities, research institutions and universities of applied sciences? ' We have prepared an analysis of this report. There is no doubt that there is a need to consolidate the network. In the near future, we will also go to the government with the first proposals. Last week we decided to set up a task force that was agreed at the Scientific and Development Council. It will discuss future directions and make proposals to the government in the future. Although this has already been criticised in the news and the National Audit Office has said something, it is not practical to carry out reforms without ministries and non-governmental experts. It is not enough for just one ministry to come up with something, especially when it comes to very important interest groups and decisions, the justification of which must be clear. Secondly, has the Government of the Republic confirmed the results of the call for proposals for the "Institutional Development Programme for R &amp; D institutions and higher education institutions" (ASTRA) of the activities financed by structural grants? What are they like? ' This news is today: on 9 June the decision was made and, as we know, the government received support for investments in the IT development centre of the University of Tartu, the building of the Academy of Arts, the hall complex of the Academy of Music and Theatre. The word 'complex' is important here because we are not financing the whole project, but what is associated with higher education. The hall itself gets the money from the brow, the accompanying part of ASTRA. Further, the building of the Estonian National Defence Academy in Tallinn, Tallinn University of Technology Faculty of Civil Engineering Experimental Hall, the Building of the National Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics, which needs money for reconstruction, and the addition of Tallinn Health Care College. In addition, ASTRA provides for a content activity for which the State will contribute a total of EUR 67,4 million to all institutions. EUR 54 million to implement ASTRA's investment plan. Third: "On what basis and on what basis will these "significant research and education trends' be developed, supported by RITA ('Reinforcing Sectoral R &amp; D') action with EUR 19,6 million? " After all, such decisions are always subjective, but experts are involved in making them, and the prescribed procedure must ensure that decisions are reasonable. Strategic research is supported, research topics have been proposed by ministries. They shall be consistent with the strategic needs of the national development plans. Here comes a reference. As a number of issues go beyond the boundaries of ministries or administrative areas, there is also cooperation in formulating them. The selection of research topics will be discussed by the Scientific and Development Council. Following his approval, the Estonian Research Council organises open competitions involving universities and research institutions. We will, of course, ensure that research and education institutions are involved in this whole process. Fourth: 'What does it mean to increase the performance of doctoral studies mentioned in the national budget strategy? Does this also mean hope for an increase in doctoral support? If so, in what extent? Or is it content and meaning something else? ' The doctoral allowance rate is EUR 422 per month and has recently been supplemented by social guarantees: the state also guarantees medical and pension insurance for doctoral students. At the same time, it is also important for us that junior researchers be practically involved in research issues, that their income comes from there, but above all that they grow together with research, that is, they study and do science at the same time. The increase in research funding itself, of course, enables universities to design careers for researchers and link PhD students' studies to doctoral research supporting thesis. In addition, the Ministry of Education supports doctoral studies from the Structural Funds and is also support for ASTRA doctoral schools, support for doctoral mobility and mobility as well as cooperation with companies during doctoral studies. Fifthly, the HTM budget is programme-based and result-based. Which or which programmes are planned to be implemented through the national budget strategy in 2017 will be complemented by an additional €8 million? ' Additional resources will be allocated to the 2017 R &amp; D &amp; I programme20. Specific preferences are basic funding for research institutions, but a little is added to competitive research support. The money will also go to support important research areas in the country and to access science databases. As we know, the euro financing has come to an end in this area and only the contribution of the Estonian taxpayer needs to be managed. How exactly is this distribution going to be? The next year's budget negotiations can already be about facts; at present, only plans can be discussed. Well, we're still trying to get closer to this 1% of GDP by the country. This figure is expected to increase slightly next year and the scientific community has also been able to express its gratitude, which is very exceptional. Generally speaking, those who allocate money, or make advantages, will never be thanked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U34	Questions for the Minister. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U35	Good President! Good Minister of Education! When we look at the R &amp; D and innovation strategy of the past period, we notice an interesting trend. The number of scientists and engineers, the number of publications, the number of patents has increased. But one important indicator has not improved just because it is sales revenue from new products and services. And it is this indicator that shows the impact of R &amp; D on growth. My question is: what are we going to do differently or better in the future, so that R &amp; D can lead to more new products and services on the market and increase sales revenue from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U36	Thank you. If I had known that such a question would come, I could have written these measures before you. But in general, we contribute to the points of contact between science, education and the economy, including allowing companies to use national infrastructure in this area. Product development is financed separately. However, such a short-term performance indicator may not necessarily be the most appropriate to assess the situation. Maybe it shows a longer-term trend. Well, time will tell, but basically, statistical calculations are always a little questionable, so fluctuations may not show everything yet. But yes, we will undoubtedly make an effort in this direction. I hope that the Estonian economy will be competitive. In itself, new products tend to fall into the hands of larger countries in the global world, but we are still trying to make sure that we are competitive in this area as well. For example, we have professional scholarships. Science and higher education still make the biggest contribution to the economy in the form of people. It is very difficult to measure this contribution, but it is the wise people with their knowledge that influence the economy, whether it is new or old, to export or import.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U37	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U38	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Thanks continue: I thank you and the other decision-makers for having enough money from the ASTRA programme for the Academy of Music and Theatre. I want to ask you about the PhD students. How many PhD students do we have in Estonia today and how many could there be? Do we have any numbers on this? And I didn't quite understand whether doctoral student support could rise from 422 next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U39	The goal is that the number of doctoral students is 300 every year. We have not achieved this level. The difference is not very big and it is also possible that this 300 is a little too ambitious. After all, we have fewer people, and more important than the number of doctoral students is definitely the level of doctoral thesis and the connection to the needs of society. Academic pure science has never been few for us; it is precisely the link with the need for economics and society in general that has always lacked. But now for the doctoral grant. I tend to get a little confused over the years, I have to check how much we have been able to allocate in the draft budget for next year. I am starting to get confused in the sense that the budget itself is just ahead of me, and in the meantime, the country's budgetary strategy has been under discussion. But one of the decisions I mentioned is the inclusion of social security contributions in doctoral grants. I don't have the courage to confirm the increase in the amount of myself right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U40	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, We also heard last week that something new task force was coming to coordinate research funding. Please explain to us why this new task force is better than any previous task force that has dealt with this problem. I understand that if it operates at the State Chancellery, it will try to solve those problems that have somehow fallen between different institutions or ministries. Have there been any difficulties in dealing with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this area, and what new quality should come from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U42	Thank you. The new quality is still the level and depth of justification. Decisions always need to be clarified and to know what is going to cost. We cannot say that all possible committees have dealt with the matter, we can say that it has been dealt with at a fairly general level by the Scientific and Development Council. If there are ten or fifteen people with great knowledge at the table, they will certainly reach a very practical level of analysis by exchanging ideas. The aim is to exchange views and to give tasks. The Scientific and Development Council instructed Gunnar Ok to write a report on the future prospects and sustainability of research, development and higher education. Gunnar Okk interviewed dozens of experts at home and abroad and this report became quite long, but certainly not very deep. There are things that were known in advance that we did not consider it necessary to implement them, but we are very grateful for this work and, on this basis, detailed analyses have been carried out. The first proposals on accessions have been the most tangible and most attractive issue for society, but the task force will continue to deal with it. It is remembered that the suggestion that three universities are sufficient in Estonia has been the most significant. At the same time, we have also heard the assessment that only one university is enough. Does this proposal also have depth, or is it just such a cognitive opinion? In society, in general, these links are not proportional, there are never single linear links, although there is usually one university in a country with a million inhabitants and one hundred in a country with a hundred million inhabitants. However, we have developed universities with a specific slope, which must be combined with a convincing explanation based, for example, on how many cases we create duplication and how much competition we want, how many cases we can achieve synergies. For example, support services and real estate must be reviewed: how much this resource is available somewhere and how much more needs to be built, for example in special schools. But maybe there are some connecting links that you can use to find that everything is just to the right degree. Such very practical analyses are relevant. But, of course, the areas of science and higher education also need to be considered, to assess brain potential and potential synergies when it comes to aggregation. In any case, the meeting of the Scientific and Development Council, as well as the opinions of dozens of people, is not enough to manage the whole area. If you think about why the Ministry of Education doesn't do this or you don't, then our power is actually very limited. Since there is still a great deal of interested parties affected by these decisions, these decisions must be very convincing. It is not enough simply to state that such is the personal opinion or political will of a couple of leading ministries of education or ministers. The Task Force is in itself nothing more than a temporary flexible management unit to deal with specific tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U43	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U44	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! With the support of the Euro-grants, nine centres of excellence for science started working this year. If you look at them, then really, all the issues are very topical. The study of the centres of excellence is certainly very important. I am concerned, however, that there are no centres of social sciences among them. However, the role of social sciences in the development of the economy and society as a whole is very important. Can you tell me what the problem is? Are our social sciences too weak and, if so, can we help them by means of a national programme or how can we ensure active activity and good post-growth in social sciences at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U45	Thank you. If our social sciences were very weak, you would certainly not hear it out of the Minister of Education and Science in public. In this sense, my answer is either negative or not at all. There's a clear logic behind this. But in general, we had specific requests and specific evaluators who have briefly presented their views in the press and have already received vicious responses. These counter-reactions have had to be dealt with a little bit. But my political hands are sometimes lacking. Responsibility for expert analyses must always be left to experts and accepted by one or another decision or assessment. After all, to some extent we have such a structural problem that so-called soft and social disciplines are much more difficult than tougher, duller and more real ones. Interest in them is always greater and the state must shift this interest a little towards science, including engineering. In this respect, the assessments made by these committees are understandable. At the same time, we really must express regret, we have many good social and humanitarian scientists who deserve to be highlighted financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U46	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U47	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The question is direct. The focus is not on what I am asking you about, but perhaps you will answer, because it is about a country's budgetary strategy. How does the strategy, state budget and the entire education policy be affected by the recent Supreme Court decision, by which 8 million euros for training children with special needs were issued by the state to the city of Tallinn? How do you comment on this if you agree to comment? Does this mean an additional annual cost for the country in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U48	Thank you. This situation is absurd for us in itself, because the analogous decision on Tartu was the opposite. It is also absurd because judgments force the state to finance undertakings that it has not decided on. That doesn't make sense from the point of view of leadership. In this Chamber, a major debate was held on private schools, on the fact that the decisions of private makers force public finances to open up to an extent that makes it difficult to finance education in general. Schools for children with special needs are of special concern to us, but the choice of how many they are and where exactly and what they are doing should still remain with the donor. If the municipal authorities decide to hold such a school, they cannot automatically ask the state for full funding. Perhaps the state itself is consolidating this system, making it more sustainable, sorting out which children have to go to school. The state can't do that at municipal school. In this sense, the situation is confusing at the moment. But just to get someone's funded thing into your account is to take money away from someone, and I don't know how it can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U49	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U50	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Education and Science! Good people's representatives! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Education and Science for being very clear...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U51	Sorry, Krista Aru! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U52	I've got a good voice, I'm talking over everybody else. But I want to thank the Minister for Education and Science for standing very firmly and clearly for one direction. Yes, we must primarily contribute to people because humans are the source of our wisdom and prosperity. We have more or less the houses we need, and research infrastructure has already been invested a lot. What we need to keep is our scientists. We also have a very good structure of science. In this 25 years, we have achieved a complete change and, I dare say, we have reached the top with our science internationally. At the same time, we have big questions in the air, which have certainly been raised for 20 years. The key issue is precisely how science can contribute better to social and economic progress. We're not talking rocket science here. Here, we obviously need help from social scientists, as well as from humanitarian scientists, because often an entrepreneur needs an interpreter. I dare say that many of our research results have not been implemented precisely because we have not been able to bring researchers' achievements within reach of people and businesses. Here's our chance, here's one big development potential. Looking at the current situation in our scientific landscape, we see a number of very good instruments. We see competitive individual grants, we see broad-based funding for institutions, which is also called basic funding. We see national programmes aimed specifically at working more together to solve one major problem. These tasks, which we can rightly expect from science, may well need very precise wording. Tasks that extend beyond a tower of ivory require very specific formulation and raising specific questions so that all available knowledge, all available wisdom, can be exploited. We will certainly monitor this area, keep an eye on the development of R &amp; D and innovation. I would remind you that already in 1921, very serious words were said in this house in the White Hall: if we do not care about our education, our science, and that means our people, too, we have failed as a country. That's what Jaan Tõnisson said here in the White Hall, but those words apply today. So we wish the Minister for Education and Science the strength to stand up for the content of science and education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U53	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. The Minister of Education and Science also does not want to speak anymore. I will conclude on this issue. There are no further questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U54	Free mike. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U55	Mr President! In the last free microphone of this year, I have rightly reached the final part on the issue of reading draft laws in the Riigikogu. Today's sub-topic is the third reading. However, in order to talk about the subject of third reading, it is important to begin by saying that, although the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu do not prohibit the interruption of second reading, practically this has not taken place for a very long time. I don't remember having that in the last year. However, Andres Herkel is lifting his finger, so at least one case has been where the second reading was interrupted. There was a lot of use in ending the second reading. This was usually the case when a new situation arose in the voting on the amendments or when the amendments did not relate to each other and there was a contradiction. It is not long now to interrupt the second reading. And unlike the practice of the IX Riigikogu, the current rules do not allow the adoption of draft laws after second reading, which was more or less general at the time. The referral to third reading was rather exceptional. What's the third reading? When I looked at the Rules of Procedure of the Estonian Riigikogu before the war, the content of the third reading was defined as the members of the Riigikogu and, accordingly, the committees and political groups, who were entitled to submit amendments, were able to submit all amendments, but only those parts of the law that had changed during the second reading. So at the third reading, the purpose of the finish was clearly to finish. The finishing of the third reading is still the subject, but no one has the right to table amendments. There is a linguistic or technical improvement approved by the Commission. This was done in the past, but usually after the third reading or after the final vote, it was in working order. This piece of work was not referred to as a third reading. I do not want to say that the current third reading system is useless. I'm sure it has its purpose. But in a way that everything is now structured so that the third reading is only left to make technical and linguistic changes, it means that the members of the Riigikogu have been taken away from one very important piece of work that they had in the past. At present, our Rules of Procedure Act does not recognise the interruption of third reading. The third reading must end, which is, of course, logical, with the final vote. In principle, you could agree to such a procedure, but there is a very large but. In particular, if the rule is that the interruption of second reading is not used and goes on to a third reading with limited content, these two things together certainly do not encourage the text of the law to be as good as possible. At third reading, speeches can be given in a very limited manner, namely only to the representatives of the political groups. For some reason, even the representatives of the committees have been excluded. It can be drawn from the same general conclusion that I have said dozens of times on this board: members of the Riigikogu have actually been deprived of their say on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-13_U56	There's no more calls. I'll see you tomorrow. All the best! Closure of the sitting at 4.15 p.m.
