ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U1	Hello, Riigikogu! 4th working week of the 3rd plenary session, Monday session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic of Estonia is today launching a draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Australia. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U3	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I would like to address an inquiry into the future of the rail sector to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. We are concerned about the fact that the state-owned railway companies Eesti Raudtee and AS EVR Cargo ended last year with 9 and 3 million euros of losses, respectively. The volume of EVR Cargo last year was 11,6 million tonnes, which remained below the volume of 4.2 million tonnes of the year before the end of the year. That's 26.6%. This year, EVR Cargo is forecasting a 5% drop in capacity. Oil products will continue to be transported, but competition will increase. A total of 28 million tonnes of goods were transported by rail in Estonia last year. Just as much was last transported in 1991. Because of the large drop in freight volumes, specialists see the government's weak transit policy, which has resulted in a very large proportion of the potential capacity being transferred to neighbouring Finland and Latvia. I would also like to give some examples here of our excise policy and of the transport of passengers and goods, but since there is little time, I will do so when the Minister comes to the question. But this area is extremely important in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U5	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee initiates a draft law amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and the Act on the organisation of local government. Its aim is to remove the restrictions on members of the Riigikogu not to participate in the work of the municipal and city councils and to give them the opportunity to participate again in organising the life of the local government unit in which they live. We hope for a lively debate and a sensible solution to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U7	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U8	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I am submitting an inquiry on the subject of the Estonian tax environment concerning the shipping sector. Estonia is known to be a maritime state, where both passenger and cargo shipping have played an important role in history. Unfortunately, Estonia's Baltic Sea countries are the only countries that do not offer tax incentives to the shipping sector, and as a result, there are no merchant ships in the Estonian ship register since February 2014. By comparison, in 2003 there were 38 cargo ships in the Estonian ship register, with currently more than 100 cargo ships in the Finnish ship register. It must also be noted that state shipping subsidies are allowed as one of the few with agricultural subsidies in the European Union, but Estonia does not take this opportunity. However, an average cargo ship would bring about EUR 25000 per year to the state budget, i.e. from the registration fees and the issuing of certificates. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been led by a working group whose model calculations show that with a 20-year perspective, the state's tax revenue would increase by 245 million euros, for example for 250 ships, while if 490 ships were registered in Estonia, this would amount to a total of 794 million euros. We will therefore ask the Minister of Finance four questions. Firstly, for what reasons has Estonia refused to introduce tax incentives for shipping companies? Secondly, has the Ministry of Finance analysed the possibility of introducing tax incentives in the shipping sector in order to bring more passenger and cargo ships to the Estonian register? Thirdly, can you give examples of tax policies in other Baltic Sea countries in the shipping sector and its impact on the economy? Last but not least, how many ships of Estonian shipping companies are currently flying the flag of a foreign country, and how much tax revenue does the Estonian state lose as a result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U9	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U10	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski. According to this year's budget, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will close the year with a deficit of 9 million euros. Tanel Ross, chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund, has told the media that this amount could be even higher. Hospitals and doctors are getting longer waiting lists. The financing of health care will improve, but this will not lead to an improvement in the conditions of treatment. In this context, we have five questions concerning the activities of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the sources of cover where the missing amounts are to be taken. We also ask whether it is safe to fear an increase in people's participation in hospital care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U11	The last two inquiries, the honourable Riigikogu, have been signed by the members of the political group. I checked it out. As we know, the party and the political group do not have the right to question; only members of the Riigikogu have that right. I have adopted two drafts and three inquiries. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will continue to work with them. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Confirmation of the week's agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with one abstention. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U12	The first is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Külliiki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Jüri Adams and Andres Herkel about Estonian maritime policy. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U13	Good Chairman! Dear Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we have made an inquiry into maritime policy. First of all, I would like to remind everyone that on the initiative of a good colleague, Urve Tiidus, this year has been declared the year of marine culture and when to talk about marine culture, if not the year of marine culture. I have said in several speeches that if we look back to the Soviet era, perhaps the greatest challenge this time put on the Estonian maritime industry. This would be very easy to say if, in the 20 and more years that followed, our maritime industry had started to get back on its feet, but strangely enough, the tendency has perhaps been even the opposite. At some point, the maritime policy has been raised to the shield, but then it disappears again for a long time. However, with regard to today's inquiry, I would like to stress the questions of our inquiry, because this topic actually has a broader impact on all Estonian politics. First of all, the first part, which is perhaps the saddest part, proves my claim that not only the Soviet era, but also we ourselves are responsible for the failure of the Estonian maritime industry. We are talking about the register of Estonian merchant ships. We have such a register, but we've reached the point where the cargo ship register has a zero ship. This situation does not need to be analysed at length. One reason is certainly the very rigid monetary policy that our Prime Minister's party has been pursuing. The reason for leaving the register is that they do not benefit their ships and are put in a more difficult competitive situation. Now the question is, how can we solve this? The second issue, as well as the broader one, is our many development plans, which we have drawn up and approved, but they are often unfortunately in shelves somewhere. Their work involves a very broad circle of specialists, as well as representatives of the associations concerned by the development plans, but unfortunately, when the development plan reaches the implementation phase, its content is somehow forgotten. And somehow the most dramatic stories are with the development plan for Estonian maritime policy 2012 to 2020 and its implementation. It has been argued to me that almost 95% of the proposed applications have not reached the end result. So there's definitely talk about the ship's register and its... Can I have a little more time? Okay, I can't. All these questions are also reflected in our questioning, which we ask the Prime Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U14	Dear Arthur Talvik! It is not the President who is spiteful, but the Rules of Procedure Act does not provide for additional time. The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning and I will answer the questions in the order in which they are submitted. The first question: 'In Estonia, the maritime economy is not an independent industry, while national documents say that it is an important area. In total, eight ministries are involved in the maritime economy, although there is no such branch in the legal language. What is involved in this underestimation of maritime affairs, and how do you intend to improve this situation? " It is true that the number of ministries involved in maritime affairs is indeed high. At the same time, the regulation of one sector within the administration of several ministries can also be considered positive, as the sector is supported by very different actors. In practice, ministries are aware of the boundaries of their administration, and there is, as far as I know, extensive cooperation on specific issues relating to the work of several ministries. The sea is a very important part of our lives, it is a state border, a freight channel, a table, a tourist destination, etc., etc. It is quite natural that all ministries that have contact with the sea are involved. The second question: 'Why are the activities foreseen in the operational programme of the Maritime Development Plan not adequately funded and when will it receive the necessary funds? 'The implementation plan for the Marine Development Plan 2012 to 2020 has been drawn up for the years 2014 to 2016, the implementation report of which will be submitted to the government in 2017. I have been assured that the means of implementing the implementation plan have been found and that the day-to-day work is being carried out in order to implement the plan. Maritime policy activities are financed from the budgetary resources of the agencies, which are allocated according to budgetary possibilities and to the national budget adopted by Parliament. The third question: 'Why are the points set out in the maritime development plan's operational programme not met in due course? Examples: the development and implementation of a system of support for shipping companies (priority of the development plan 1) and the analysis of the establishment of a maritime cluster were foreseen on 31.03.2015, 30.06.2014, and the permanent representation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Maritime Organisation, IMO, etc., was foreseen until now. 'The activities provided for in the operational programme have been carried out in accordance with the possibilities and priorities of the bodies concerned. One example is the initial task of the draft revision of the Law of the Sea prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which aims to achieve greater legal clarity and better division of competences between ministries and agencies. At the moment, the draft revision of the Law of the Sea is being coordinated and, subject to approval, the relevant activities can be taken forward. In the area of marine education, a number of activities in the operational programme have already been completed or have entered the mid-term review phase. An example is the accession of the Estonian Maritime Academy to the TUT, and a study of the labour needs of the Marine Sector of Praxis Centre for Policy Studies, which is important for the state in shaping the training order, further developing Estonian maritime policy and developing the concept of marine education. The fourth question: 'The management of maritime affairs is fragmented between different ministries and agencies, cooperation and exchange of information are incomplete. How do you feel about the idea of setting up a Commission under the leadership of the Prime Minister to monitor and manage the maritime situation? " A better coordinated division of labour must always be pursued. Whether to do so through this cooperation between the Commission or ministries, this is the forum for discussion. If there are compelling arguments in favour of the option proposed by you, then I am prepared to listen to these arguments. Question 5: 'Around 50 ships are residents of Estonia, but under the flags of other countries. Tax policies that discourage entrepreneurship and few guarantees are to blame. There are some 26 cargo ships in Latvia and over 60 cargo ships in Lithuania under the flag of these countries. Estonian National Development Plan 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011 has included the introduction of ships under the Estonian flag as the first priority measure. By 2020, the number of GRT cargo ships should be moved to 35 from virtually zero to present levels. What have your governments done specifically to achieve this important objective and what is planned to be done in the near future? Has an analysis been carried out for this? 'The working group set up in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has analysed the competitiveness of the Estonian shipping sector in detail and presented its proposals in the document 'Strengthening the competitiveness of the Estonian shipping sector'. It includes, among other things, aspects of the restructuring of ship registers, the taxation of merchant ships, the movement of foreign workers on merchant ships flying the flag of Estonia and the guarantee of social guarantees for Estonian seafarers working there. These discussions must continue between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Question 6: 'All maritime states are fighting to get better positions because it is important to have and control the entire logistics chain. The EU has prioritised the promotion of maritime affairs and, in particular, maritime transport. Estonia is clearly lagging behind here. What explains this situation, and what do you intend to do to improve it? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with other ministries, is working every day to improve the competitiveness of Estonian shipping and is ready to continue developing different options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U16	Questions for the Prime Minister. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U17	Thank you! In fact, a little more in-depth analysis would have been expected, as the subject is wide and affects our Estonian country from very many points of view, both figuratively and essentially. But you emphasised here at least twice the study carried out at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I ask what your own position is. Could tax distinctions be made in order to increase the competitiveness of Estonian shipping, just as our neighbours have done? That is why our cargo shipping has also been exposed to unequal competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U18	Thank you. In my opinion, this is a subject with many ends. First of all, of course, emotionally speaking, the more ships flying the Estonian flag, the better. More rationally speaking, it is not so black and white. I remember very in-depth discussions from ten years ago when the Minister of Economic Affairs was the chairman of the current largest opposition party. Then very different options were discussed and the result was that each option tends to have some buts. It is not so obvious that, if you make a tax relief, the tax receipts will be improved as soon as they are repeated, as stated here in the text of the inquiry before one of the opposition ambassadors. In itself, painting the competitiveness of Estonian shipping in such black colours is not quite right. We know that, if you take passenger ships, for example, the largest passenger ship company in the Baltic Sea, which has acquired a very large and historical player before the capital of Finland, is precisely an Estonian company. And the Estonian company Tallink is not only known in the Baltic Sea countries, but more widely. But you asked for my personal opinion. However, I hope that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will bring an analysis of possible tax incentives and other solutions to the government table, and then we can very soberly consider the advantages and disadvantages of possible alternatives. Overall experience has shown that solving problems with tax incentives is one of the most ineffective solutions. But that is such a general principle, that does not mean that we should necessarily exclude one solution or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U19	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas! During the 1992 presidential campaign, Lennart Meri used the slogan "The Meri Connecting." And it was very meaningful, especially in view of our Soviet past, when the sea separated us. I would like to ask how you are satisfied with the maritime cooperation between Estonia's neighbouring countries and other countries along the Baltic Sea, be it in the field of energy, be it in the field of entrepreneurship, also in preserving and protecting the sea as our common value.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U21	That's a very good question. I recently had the opportunity to discuss these matters with my Finnish colleague in Turku, Finland. We discussed the latest cooperation projects precisely in the field of the environment. To put it briefly, I believe that we do not have any problems with cooperation with the Nordic countries and other European Union countries. But we know that there is also a country on the Baltic Sea that does not belong to the European Union. And with this country, environmental projects have not always succeeded one hundred percent. There has been progress, but this cooperation has not always been easy. As far as energy is concerned, I am very pleased to say that the Baltic Sea has indeed become a sea connecting in terms of electricity connections. Estonia has two connecting lines with Finland. Recently, I had the opportunity to participate in the opening of the maritime cable between Lithuania and Sweden. Today, the leader of Elering, Taavi Veskimägi, pointed out that the connections between Lithuania and Sweden have reached full capacity. This is definitely a connecting factor. In addition, of course, we have ambition for even more: that the Baltic Sea can also connect in terms of gas networks. We have agreed with our Finnish colleagues that we will connect the gas networks of Estonia and Finland, just as we have connected our electricity network. In the future, when we get the Balticconnector open, it will certainly offer even more alternatives to Estonian consumers than the current two. We now know that we have one possibility of Russian gas coming from Gazprom, the other is the Lithuanian terminal, which already exists in reality. And thirdly, I would say that there are more and more people on this side of the Gulf of Finland who no longer consider the transport connection between Estonia and Finland to be a complete utopia, which is more secure than the connection to the ship. That, too, is progress. It is clear that the tunnel between Tallinn and Helsinki will not be built in a few years, but that it is thought of connecting Estonia and Finland more firmly, I think it is right. Life shows how realistic it is, but you have to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U22	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Estonia does not have its own maritime law. Do you think it would be necessary in Estonia and, if so, when could it be developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U24	As far as the laws are concerned, I think the President of the Riigikogu has formulated this principle in a very nice way much better than I can now repeat. But every law must have a clear purpose, a clear thought, and it must be clearly and clearly written. The laws on the sea are several, they regulate maritime safety, the marine environment, etc. Whether there is still a need to codify the sea individually, I doubt that. I would rather share the view of those who say that we should not make laws just for the sake of lawmaking, but only when we see that there is a major problem in society, for which a legislative initiative is the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I read from your reply that the subject has been discussed for a long, long time, even from prehistoric times, when the Minister of Economic Affairs was Edgar Savisaar, but there is still no clear position. You have now referred to a working group that has analysed Estonia's competitiveness on this issue. Is there any way that Estonia will lose tax revenue by the loss of this economic sector? And what is still the threatening negative impact that will not allow us to take steps to bring our competitiveness to the level of our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U27	I cannot accept you calling Edgar Savisaar a prehistoric phenomenon. However, this is entirely our modern phenomenon. Edgar Savisaar is, at least formally, the leader of the opposition and chairman of the largest opposition party in Parliament. But yes, he was Minister of Economic Affairs a decade ago, and since then, indeed, a lot of water has flowed into the sea. But to come to your question, I would leave the analysis to the specialists of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance to answer. We have agreed that this issue will be raised at government level. However, they are the most competent to assess possible tax revenues and costs. We must take into account that any tax distinction also entails the cost of tax. I also very much like this prehistoric phenomenon, once again, when it comes to time tens of years ago, like the tax expenditure heading of the state budget explanatory memorandum, which states exactly how much one or the other tax credit will cost the state, how much tax money will not be collected and then undivided. So let's calmly look at these calculations from the two ministries, so we can also consider options. For me, these issues are not taboos, but life has shown that tax relief is one of the most expensive ways of solving problems. This has been demonstrated by the practice of both Estonia and other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U28	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U29	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I'll go back to where the last questioner stopped. I still don't get it. If we now have virtually no tax revenue from ships that do not fly the flag of Estonia, how is it bad for us to introduce tax distinctions? How can it have so much negative impact? It turned out so interesting today that when Jaak Madison gave an inquiry on the same subject and mentioned a variety of painful figures, you immediately reacted and wrote them down for yourself. Would you not, however, take the opportunity to comment on these figures, at least their order of magnitude? I understand that a detailed analysis is definitely ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U30	On the surface of the information I have, I would dare to question the orders of magnitude, especially those concerning possible future tax receipts. But I think that a much more detailed answer can be given once the ministries have done their calculations. It makes no sense for me to speculate and debate on the basis of my gut. Let's wait for these repairs, see what the alternative costs are. In general, I say once again, there is some reason why, ten years ago, it was concluded that this problem is not black and white, that there is also a negative impact. For a very long time, in parallel, both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have been dealing with the question of how to guarantee social security for these people, for example, by granting a tax advantage on employees' wages. We know that in Estonia both pensions and health insurance are directly linked to social tax. If a person's salary has not been subject to social security contributions, he or she does not have a retirement age and does not have health insurance. It is true that this whole issue is a little more complicated and that is why I say that there are no simple solutions. Here, for example, is the nuance that if, for example, a person is on a ship for three years in a row and receives medical care only outside Estonia or on a ship during that period, the question arises as to whether health insurance is necessary for him or her at all. At the same time, if he travels within the European Union and gets treated in a country of the European Union, he will benefit greatly from health insurance. So there are a lot of nuances that different authorities have to deal with. This particular area is the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but almost all ministries are involved in the sea in Estonia, whether or not they want to. The Ministry of Social Affairs seems at first sight to be very far from the sea, but through social guarantees for people at sea, the Ministry of Social Affairs is also directly linked to the sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U31	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Surprisingly, I heard you say several times today that making tax incentives is one of the most ineffective ways of solving problems. However, with regard to the loss of corporate tax, you firmly believe that this is the right thing. But I am asking you that in the European Union it is possible to grant State aid in the field of maritime affairs and to make tax incentives. Estonian Air was given state aid on several occasions. Why, then, is this different attitude to air transport and maritime transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U33	No, there's definitely no different attitude here. In the case of air transport, it is not a tax credit but a question of whether the State can subsidise air links in a competitive situation and, if so, in what form. There has been a long debate with the European Commission on this subject, subject to European competition rules. There are also very clear limits to maritime transport that can be subsidised, which cannot be subsidised. National connections, for example, between islands and continents, we do do so every year. Unlike the subsidisation of air links moving outside the country, this is fully in line with the rules. At the same time, we also do do something about the air link between Tallinn and Kuressaare, for example. In the case of domestic lines, such subsidies have been accepted in every way and have been used by the Estonian state for many years. Why do I say that tax relief is usually an ineffective solution or at least inefficient than direct support for specific areas? Because the tax credit is granted to everyone and to everything. Let's take some of the tax incentives in Estonia that I don't want to open the debate about, but let's take books, for example. Why is there less VAT for books? Probably to support the issue of fiction. I believe that we all understand why a lower VAT rate is justified, for example, for textbooks. There's a perfectly clear logic. However, since the VAT credit is valid throughout all the sales of literature, including translation literature, and also for the sale of books for which the need to subsidise is questionable, those who actually need support will, of course, receive a lower proportion of the total benefit. For example, textbooks, poetry, Estonian original literature at all. We also allow a discount on the sale of books for which this is not so obvious. As far as corporate tax is concerned, it is not so much a classic tax distinction as it is taxed. It is a question of the tax base. I am convinced that, as in 2000, creating a favourable tax environment for businesses will also contribute to investment in 2016. This will contribute to job creation, contribute to economic recovery. And this, as a whole, brings much more revenue to the state budget, both directly and indirectly, than would bring a traditional tax system where the total tax rates would be much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U34	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The development plan of Estonian maritime policy has now been in place for several years. There are various impact analyses, there are beautifully fixed indicators. I do not suspect at all that all these analyses have not been carried out and have not tried to find the best solutions. But doesn't it seem to you that one reason why a good result has not been achieved is because there isn't one such coordinating officer? Have you not considered assigning one coordinating body to carry out our maritime policy in this maritime year, which has now begun, to be responsible for everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U36	I've already tried to answer that question. The same question was also raised in the main text of the inquiry. In itself, the Maritime Coordinator should be the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is able to involve the competences of different narrower areas. I do not rule out absolutely that the coordination body you have proposed is a sensible solution, why not. Whether it has to work necessarily with the Prime Minister or whether it can be arranged as we have on road safety and on a number of other issues, that such an entity is set up in the Ministry and managed by a specific Minister for Industry, involving specialists from other ministries, is a matter of its own initiative. This is, let's say, a place of choice, but basically I'm certainly not going to rule out this coordination body. It is good in itself that you have brought a constructive solution to the table and pointed out that you believe that better coordination is needed. It is also very clear from the government principle that ministries do not act as separate silo towers, but that communication between them is intensified. So we do not really have any world-view, principled opposition here. You drew attention to what is very important, and I believe that the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will also see that this debate has now been raised in Parliament. I'm sure they'll draw their own conclusions. So your initiative is most grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U37	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There are many sectoral development plans in Estonia that set out important objectives and priorities. This is undoubtedly the case in Estonian maritime policy. However, our problem is often that the development plan is not related to the state budget. This means that the development plan and the state budget actually live separate lives and direct links between them are very difficult to find. This has often led to the problem that the implementation plan is not implemented in the way it is actually wanted. When you answered the second question, you said that money had been found. That was a relatively general answer. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has said that the implementation plan will be reviewed annually and the result will also be submitted to the Government of the Republic. Please specify which expenditure has then been incurred and is still being incurred under these five priorities:
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U39	First of all, the criticism of the so-called non-synchronous nature of the budget and development plans is justified on many issues. There are areas where it is quite clear what sectoral funding is, and development plans can be built on a solid knowledge base. I will give an example of a ten-year development plan for national defence, according to which the development of defence capabilities is planned. They know that they can account for 2% of gross domestic product and know that gross domestic product is predictable, at least to a certain extent. So there's a point to be taken. Of course, adjustments must always be made in the course of the work, but in principle it is possible to build a development plan on specific known resources in advance. There are also positive examples, but I agree that there are areas where the budget options have not responded to the development plan. So what do we do? We have undertaken quite a number of innovations in the preparation of the state budget. It is clear that this is a very complex area and there are very many details, but we have started with the fact that this year, for the first time in the country's budget strategy, we are dealing with priority areas entirely separately and under the direction of the Prime Minister himself. That's what I'm going to talk about in answer to the next question, maybe in more detail. The ministers responsible for security, for example, describe the key sections of the work where they consider that additional resources are needed to create maximum added value. We are not discussing all requests for additional money in the same way, but we are focusing on priorities in the first round and making sure that the most justified additional requests can be met. Within the limits of taxes, of course. As far as specific figures are concerned, unfortunately, I do not have them at hand right now, but I am absolutely sure that if you ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure a written question, they will certainly be submitted to you. I guess that's how you get the most accurate answer. I'm not gonna be offering those numbers right now. You will receive an exact reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U40	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U41	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! A tax policy on maritime affairs and shipping companies was also briefly mentioned here. On the one hand, of course, I agree that creating all kinds of tax distinctions raises new questions and new problems, but it is still significant that Estonia is the only country on the Baltic Sea that has not gone this way to introduce tax distinctions in this area. Do you think that this is justified and is Estonia really doing the right thing when it is different from all the other countries around the Baltic Sea? Others have gone on a different path and the result is that there are 100 cargo ships in the Finnish ship register, over 700 ships in Norway, if I remember correctly. There are currently zero ships in the ship's register in Estonia. In this context, does it seem justified to avoid differentiation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U42	Thank you. I believe you agree that fundamental policy change must be based on an in-depth analysis. This is also the case here. The number of ships under the flag alone does not give us the full picture. There are a number of details that actually affect both the tax receipts and the wider picture. We've already talked about some of it. In general, I think it makes sense to have the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications do the analysis and propose solutions. Then they come from the facts. Let me just give you an example of how, at first glance, the situation seems like this, but it is actually quite different. In this Chamber, too, I have been asked how it is possible for both Latvia and Lithuania to have a lower tax burden than Estonia. If you look at statistics, you can say yes, there is really a lower tax burden. If we look at the tax rates, we can see that the difference is more in Estonia's favour. What's the anomaly? The explanation is simple. For example, in the case of VAT, Latvia has a tax gap of 2.5% of GDP and Lithuania has 2.8% of GDP. These are higher figures than in Estonia. Maybe taxes have been imposed, but they are collected less than in Estonia. That shows two things. Estonian entrepreneurs have been more honest in paying taxes, and for this they have earned both my thanks and probably your thanks. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board has also been able to cooperate in an ingenious way with entrepreneurs to come up with solutions to reduce tax fraud. All in all, it is an additional revenue to the state budget amounting to hundreds of millions. 2.5% of GDP is around 500 million. Imagine if Estonia had a VAT hole of 2.5% of GDP and only a VAT hole of 2.5% of GDP! We'd have 500 million less money in the budget. In Estonia, however, the tax administration and entrepreneurs have jointly sought good solutions. I think this is a rather unique situation: companies very clearly support the tax administration's efforts to ensure that the competitive environment is fair to everyone. Thus, if you look at only part of the statistics, the picture can remain misleading. This is also the case with the example of the tax burden. When taxes are not collected and tax rates are taken into account, Estonia certainly has no reason to be ashamed of either Latvia or Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U43	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U44	Good Chairman! Dear Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister's answers contained a few positive surprises. At this point, I would like to say that the man from the word, the bull from the horn, we hope that these views will be held. The first surprise related to the story of the silo. The Estonian maritime sector is indeed divided between eight ministries and this area needs central coordination. And today we have heard a very clear statement from the Prime Minister that the proposal is positive and could be implemented. As an example, I can point out the fact that the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which is mainly responsible for agriculture, actually accounts for a smaller share of GDP than the maritime economy. There is no ministry for managing the blue economy, there is a proud and large ministry for rural affairs with many officials. We will certainly contribute to this if necessary, but we will certainly keep an eye on Estonia's maritime economy to be coordinated in a coherent manner and that the maritime economy will become an important industry in our country again. However, I agree that Tallink already makes a major contribution to this. However, the issue of the register of merchant vessels remains a problem. It's actually a little bit of a question of our pride. It is not just a question of whether we are making tax distinctions or not making tax distinctions; it is also a question of whether we are a maritime state or whether we are not a maritime state. It's a more principled question. I would be very pleased if we were to get out of this hole as soon as possible. All in all, however, I would just like to say that the Free Party Group is certainly a faction, and not only this year of marine culture, but also in the future, will try to pay very great attention to the development of our maritime, maritime culture, maritime economy and Estonia as a maritime state. We very much want Estonia to become a proud sea power again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U45	There are no further requests to speak. Is there anything the Prime Minister would like to add? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U46	The next item on our agenda is an inquiry by Külliki Kübarsepp, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsepp, Jüri Adams and Andres Herkel, who will also report to us on behalf of its heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U47	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The representatives of the Free Party, whose names were read out, have indeed made such an inquiry. But I think the circle of those concerned with the reform of the state is much wider. Recently, Mart Laar and Jüri Raidla published articles on this subject, and before coming to this sitting, I noticed an e-mail from my colleague, Tanel Talve, in an e-mail box. He will lead, if I have understood correctly, the National Reform Support Group or something like that and think that this issue must be discussed as an important national issue in this Chamber. Unfortunately, Tanel Talve is not here now, but it is in itself very pleasant that our concern that things are not really moving in this area is shared by the coalition ambassadors. I would also like to highlight the honourable party partner of the Prime Minister, Aivar Sõerdi, whose article entitled 'The country's contraction must begin with the central government' actually reflects very precisely the spirit of our inquiry. If we go any further, on behalf of the Free Party, I will also say that savings must start with a reduction in the funding of political parties from the state budget. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, there is quite a lot of room for state reform there. It talks about reducing duplication of activities, reducing government employment in relation to the shrinking of the working age population and strengthening cooperation between them. It's all nicely written. So far, however, no progress has been seen. In reply to the previous inquiry, the Prime Minister said that he had something further to say in the context of this inquiry. Overall, there has been talk of the need to reduce the number of employees in the central government by 750 per year. We don't quite understand what this calculation is based on. If we want to reduce staff in sync with the decline in the working age population, this should be even higher. We have a series of questions here, some of which are quite specific. Let us also draw attention to one of the picnic cases that the Auditor General made here last year. The two ministries argued among themselves about all the performance areas, objectives and impact analyses, and in the end it happened that a very practical question such as the repair of the Estonian Moscow Embassy remained between the land and the sky in the state budget. Such things are certainly not reasonable and do no honor to our state apparatus. There could certainly be more questions, but we were based on the Prime Minister being able to answer a number of questions within a reasonable time. We'll ask some questions next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U48	And that's what the Prime Minister is doing now. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U49	I'll answer you as soon as you give me another chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for your questioning! I think this is a very good opportunity to explain the things that the government has already done and is doing and is in the planning phase. But before going to the answers, I say that it is not a government matter to think about and advise on what the "work" issues of the Riigikogu might be, but I promise myself that the initiative to address the reform of the state, whether in terms of administrative reform or promoting the state's innovation, is a matter of national relevance. I have spoken to Jüri Raidla before her article was published, and she has also proposed it. And if Parliament thinks that its working time will allow attention to be paid to this issue, it will certainly contribute to a broader discussion of the priorities set by the government. I also hope to support the draft administrative reform coming to Parliament in the coming months. I believe that, when discussing this, we could try to cross the coalition and opposition borders and work together. The administrative reform is one of the efforts that have been made for a few decades. I think this is a historic opportunity. If we start to fight fiercely across the coalition-opposition line chasing nuances here, one important reform leading to Estonia's development may not be completed. I very much hope for your cooperation on this issue. But now to the questions you asked. The first question: 'What calculation is based on the objective of Arto Aasa, Minister of Public Administration, to bring together the number of employees of the central government by 750 by the end of 2016? In this case, what age group is considered to be a working-age population and what is the basis for optimism that a cut to this extent will ensure a reduction in government employment in line with the decline in the working-age population? In this case, what would be the decline of the entire working-age population in Estonia? ' Flexible and innovative state administration is one of the five priorities of the government I manage, whose main objective is to provide public services more efficiently, including fewer employees, to reduce the volume of government and the duplication of tasks. Jüri Raidla also refers to the importance of the state reform in today's Postimees, which you also claimed to be important for the Riigikogu's role in implementing it. The proposed reform consists largely of a reform of administration and a reform of state governance, during which the state's activities as a whole will be reviewed. Reducing the number of employees in the public sector in line with the decline in the population is only part of the big picture. The main starting point is that the number of people paid by taxpayers cannot increase if the number of taxpayers is reduced. We in the government have set the goal of keeping the proportion of government employees in proportion to the working age population as it is today: 12% of the working age population. The latter will then include people aged 15 to 74. This is due to statistics. In practice, of course, not all people aged 15 to 74 work, but this range is based on calculations. And there is a strong correlation between the number of people who actually work and that. As demographic trends show that the working-age population of Estonia will decrease by an average of 0.7% over the next five years, the aim is to reduce the general government workforce in the same order of magnitude. That is where it comes from, about 750 people a year. It must be admitted that this is certainly not an easy task, but it is a job that must be done for a well-functioning and efficient public administration. In fact, I also have a table from Statistics Estonia, which shows the working age population and the number of employees in the government sector. Since 2014, the share of government employees in the working age population has been 12%. In order for this figure to remain around 12%, the reduction should be 0.7% per annum on average. I will be happy to share this table with you, so you can use these figures in the future. The second question: 'What analyses and studies carried out in the past are based on? How do you disprove the rather common conclusion that the cut was based on a uniform mathematical cut rather than through a weighted analysis? ' The government's decision was preceded by an analysis by the Ministry of Finance. The reforms of the last five years were analysed and on this basis the task was allocated, not equally, but proportionally between ministries. A very clear distinction was made, depending on how many reforms had been carried out in a specific area over the last five years. The scope of the task may vary four times in different ministries. All ministries can fit between them, so more specifically, the volume of redundancies is between 0.6 and 2.4% under different ministries. Thus, the argument that staff in all areas will be reduced with exactly the same'mathematical' cut is not true. From the beginning, the figures have been different, as has been said, the difference is up to four times. Now the question is whether a more substantive approach can be taken to the task. I'm sure you could. We have planned to come up with a more detailed analysis this spring, which will dissect in more detail in specific areas not only how much reform has been carried out so far and what trends have been, but also in which areas duplication can be reduced, what parts of the work can be organised differently. That's what we're gonna do. But if we had based last year on the fact that savings can only be achieved after a'second degree' analysis, then simply one year would have been lost. That's not what we wanted. That is why we launched the first round from the ground of the reforms that have been carried out so far in specific areas of administration. For example, in the area of administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Police and Border Guard Board did very fundamental reforms on its own as early as 2014. Under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board has independently managed to optimise a very extensive structure, and there we did not set up a new major cut-off task. But in some areas where formations have grown, the task of cutting is more ambitious. Question 3: 'In recent years, wage growth in the public sector has been significantly faster than wage growth in the private sector. This trend continues. At the same time, the central authorities of the state, for example, have sufficient resources for ministries and the Riigikogu to pay off expensive trainings, poorly justified cost benefits, etc. Consequently, the question is: why, along with job cuts, has there not been a decisive reduction in the other costs of ministries and other central authorities? ' Here it is important to look at the longer term. By this year, the central government has been able to restore the wage position of public officials before the crisis, which should also be kept in proportion in the coming years, as otherwise it will be difficult to keep and recruit employees in the public sector. In particular, there is a shortage of skilled labour in the scientific labour market. In 2015, we increased the payroll fund for public employees by 3%, and in addition we allocated 1.5% additional money to teachers, doctors, ambulances and social welfare, internal security and cultural workers. By 2016, we did not foresee such an overall growth in the payroll fund. Within the Salary Fund, specific wage increases can be made through the use of money in ministries, which can be saved by optimising the compositions. At the same time, we allocated 4% extra money to teachers, cultural, internal security and social welfare workers, plus, of course, the very rapid increase in wages for health workers previously agreed in the collective agreement. To pay competitive wages, resources can be found in areas where reforms release resources, including by optimising compositions. I looked at the answer to that question by preparing for a comparison of years. In 2006, wage growth in the public and private sectors was exactly equal. In 2007 and 2008, in the so-called boomy season, the central government went a long way, with wages growing faster. In times of crisis 2009 and 2010, the decline in the public sector, including the central government, was greater. In 2011, wage growth in the private sector was already fast, and public sector wage growth was lagging behind. In 2012, the change in both the average wage in Estonia and the average wage in the central government was exactly 6%. In 2013 and 2014 and expected also in 2015, for which we do not yet have precise statistics, the wage growth of the central government or, more specifically, the public employees was slightly, or 2% to 3% faster than in the private sector. But we have to consider that the central government is a larger group of teachers, for example, and we plan to raise teachers' salaries in the next four years, consciously, much faster than the Estonian average. We want to achieve an average wage for teachers to reach 120% of the national average wage. The sector also includes health professionals. Agreements on the pay of health workers have been quite rapid in supporting wage growth in recent years. Salaries have also increased rapidly in the area of security, including defence, following the crisis. In my opinion, the wage increases that have come about have not been random or unwarranted in any way; they have had a definite logic. The fourth question: 'The Auditor General, Alar Karis, described the tragic-anecdotic story about the need for repair of the Estonian embassy in Moscow in front of the Riigikogu on 25 November 2015. Among other things, the officials of one ministry had to describe on a page-by-page basis to the officials of another ministry, 'what is the improvement in the availability of public services through renovation by regional and target groups and how this property affects the objectives of another performance area'. Let's assume you're familiar with this case. What have you done to put an end to such nonsense and skolastic relations between ministries, and the officials who brought it to life will be part of the fact that they will be made redundant in the future? ' As far as I know, the case in question was a misunderstanding arising from insufficient communication. But in itself, I agree that enough extreme cases of this kind should be avoided in the future. Without complicated bureaucracy, it is probably possible to justify why the Republic of Estonia must have an embassy in Moscow, for example, and why it is important that this embassy is located in dignified premises. This does not mean, however, that we should ridicule the details of the budget request. In the government, priorities are agreed on, based on a very detailed analysis of how much repair is needed and how much repair costs. In the government, we don't go over every particular wall, so either it goes down on the boulder and after the wallpaper or the paint or something third. Of course, we rely on the information that officials have put together in cooperation with the ministries. Question 5: "How is the strengthening of the Prime Minister's role as promised in point 4.3 of the Coalition Agreement in resolving cooperation problems? Are, and what successful examples can be given of this, and how and whether the government's rules of procedure have been changed for this purpose? ' Thanks for asking, okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U51	Prime Minister, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U52	Yeah, it's been 15 minutes. But the members of the Riigikogu have questions and this gives the Prime Minister the opportunity to talk everything out of his heart. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I hope that someone else will also raise this issue, but I have a very specific question about when we have a working-age population aged 15 to 74. Can we conclude from this that it is planned to increase the retirement age to 74, for example? But you had very good substantive answers, and thank you for that. In essence, I believe that you have confirmed or confirmed the move! A policy on an excellent analysis portal. The guru's observation that this age group needed to be dragged so wide simply because the lay-off of the central government officials by 1,100 employees seemed unrealistic. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U54	First of all, as a working-age population, the age group has been used quite frequently in statistics for 15 to 74 years of age. Having worked as a Minister for Social Affairs and also as Chairman of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, I would argue that there is nothing specific about this. However, I do not really know why the Ministry of Finance used this age range in this particular case. I admitted, in answer to the question, that this does not mean that everyone aged 15 to 74 should work, but the fact is that our overall population, no matter what age group is considered to be a working-age population, is decreasing quite strongly. Of course, this decrease is not exactly 0.7% every year. Population projections for 2019 and 2020 show that the decline will be actually 0.5 or 0.4%, given only the working age population. Young people aged 15 or over are also considered to be working-age, for example, when youth unemployment is being tackled. In statistics, one age range is very often 15 to 24 years old, and in certain options 15 to 29 years old. This also applies to NEETs: if at least 15 years of age does not study, they often write in statistics as the person who should go to work. When he learns, the rules of statistics are, of course, different. But there is certainly nothing specific about this age in itself and there is no automatic connection to retirement age here. We have a very clear retirement age until 2026. Will anything be changed from that time forward, this is already a completely separate issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U55	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U56	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Even before the elections, so about a year ago, Jüri Raidla, quoted several times today, said something in his ten commandments that would enable the Prime Minister's office to become the strategic centre of the Republic of Estonia. So the very idea of the Prime Minister's independence went through it. How do you feel about that? You can now also answer the fifth question. I would add that the evil media still tend to amplify conflicts within the government, even showing the faces of various ministers at a government press conference. Tell some success stories about how you have reconciled coalition partners as a peaceful prime minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U57	Thank you for this opportunity! I was thinking maybe you'd ask me something else and I couldn't answer that favorite question that was asked this time under number 5. But just a sequel. I will also respond to this supplementary question. Let me give you a few examples. From the beginning of this year, the Prime Minister's role in the management of national defence increased considerably. In this context, additional competences have also been brought to the State Chancellery for the exchange of Prime Minister, such as the development of the foundations of security policy. In accordance with the Government Union Agreement, the Prime Minister is also headed by the Administrative Reform Government Commission. In addition, we have taken the work plan to say, the expert group convened by the Prime Minister, because it has been led by Erkki Raasuke at my request, that the government makes proposals on how to systematically act to ensure that the economy grows faster than usual, so that we can find additional ways to accelerate economic growth. In replying to the previous question, I mentioned that we are now trying such a new format that, during the planning of the country's budget strategy, various ministers will come to the Prime Minister. We have planned a budget for growth, for example, with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Education and the Minister for Enterprise. We reviewed cross-cuttingly what the greatest challenges are, so that economic growth, which is one of the great goals of the government, can certainly be guaranteed. I also had a meeting with the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Aasa, to make it clear that he also has my support for allocating additional amounts from the budget for administrative reform. Jne, et cetera. Several meetings are still ahead of us. It's one of the new formats. Now, you asked for examples of success stories in government cooperation. Of course, you don't believe me when I say that there are actually quite a lot of them and that, despite everything, I get along perfectly well with both Margus Tsahkna and Jevgeni Ossinovski. Today, too, we spoke on a number of issues and it is not at all that we make faces when talking to each other. There are political parties with different world views in Estonia and we will certainly have topics to argue about in the future. However, I believe that there have been quite a number of agreements on important issues. I will give an example from a few weeks ago when the principles of the Energy Market Act were discussed. Estonia has the potential to earn tens of millions of euros of export income per year; it is possible to provide additional services to the forest sector; it is possible to create a few thousand new jobs. Optimistic estimates in the sector itself have come up with even bigger figures, but I would stick to more conservative projections. However, they are also significant, as these jobs can mostly be created in Ida-Virumaa, where jobs are urgently needed. This was a very serious debate. For about four hours, we discussed this issue and reached an agreement. I think this is a very good deal. Of course, we must ensure that the price of low-quality timber does not rise sharply in the course of these changes. It is quite clear that state action must not cause price shocks on the market. However, when we see that the potential is to earn tens of millions of export earnings a year, they went into the four hours spent arguing, in any case. As far as the preparation of the state budget is concerned, the opposition and, in some ways, the government itself were surprised that we already reached an agreement on the details of the state budget on 17 September. I think it was a surprise for everyone. I'm sure everyone agrees that it's hard to imagine a more important document than the state budget. With regard to the specific issue that, at the press conference, made ministers interlocute or bullshit each other, we have agreed that the Minister of Health will bring his initiative to the office and will then be able to receive a political guideline on what steps to take, with which not. I should have actually done that right now, but now we're gonna do that. There is nothing wrong with the fact that ministries have already expressed their views. It's just that this process is a little longer now. If we had discussed the matter in the office immediately, perhaps the draft would have received positive feedback by today on the coordination round. It's hard to say. The subject itself is important. We have no dispute in the coalition as to whether or not alcohol policy has to be dealt with. Absolutely everyone agrees to be dealt with. I myself was the minister who brought a green paper to the previous government, with a collection of ideas. Surely we must now find a reasonable compromise on what ideas we will actually achieve by implementing. In my opinion, two main problems need to be kept in focus. First of all, so the kids don't get their liquor. By "kids," I mean all minors. Secondly, so that concrete steps can be taken against overdrinking. All the studies I have seen show that the most effective measure against alcohol consumption is excise policy. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who agreed to the increase in alcohol duty, although this is not necessarily a popular decision. In this regard, however, we have had a broad enough consensus. In addition to research, Estonia's own experience has shown that in 2009, when incomes fell and alcohol duty increased, the biggest decline in alcohol consumption in Estonia's recent history was. In recent years, too, when the increase in excise duties has been fast enough, consumption has been declining. This does not have a good impact on the budget, as excise duties will be reduced by this. But the fall in consumption has been the goal. Excise duty does not only have a fiscal objective; the main objective of excise duty is to influence public health and consumption. And you can see there's been a fall. And this decline has not come at the cost of the secret market starting to grow, but consumption has actually decreased. So you can already see clear trends.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U58	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U59	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! When it comes to state reform, I have heard very often the claim that, in fact, this lay-off is a formal one. The problems are actually taken out of the house, hidden behind the so-called tick MTÜs or inside foundations. My question is this: do you still intend to look very seriously at the activities of all kinds of NGOs and foundations at the next stage? Is my statement true or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U60	In itself, government statistics do not only cover public authorities. General government may include a company, may include a limited company, NGO, foundation. So it doesn't give us the chance to sneak out of the government sector or carry anything out. That's good news now. It is true that moving a service into a "second" image is certainly not what we want. We want the proportion of public staff in the working age population to actually be what it is now. If we simply shift statistically between sectors of workers, it does not really win. It still has to be practically approachable. There are other examples. In 2014, quite a number of important companies and institutions were included in the government sector. If I remember correctly, 2014 was the year when Elron, or Estonian Liner Trains AS, was included in the government sector. This is for the simple reason that before that they had a lower percentage of subsidies than there was a certain limit from which the government sector started. And since the proportion of ticket revenue versus subsidy changed so that the majority of the subsidy became part of it, the whole Elron now belongs to the general government with all its trains. There are examples. There is another example that seems to have increased the statistical number of the central government. In my opinion, it should be reduced from statistics in this sense that it was a very necessary step in the right direction, which reduced the total number of employees. I mean, the South-Estonian Hospital, which is located near Võru, belonged to the municipality sector before it was established by the municipalities. There were 11 of these municipalities in Võrumaa, if I remember correctly. Now this hospital was connected to a network with the University of Tartu Hospital and several hundred employees came under the central government as well. In fact, we know that treatment processes can now be better organised there and people have not come to work in themselves. This was, in itself, a necessary change and could continue to happen in the future. I hope you'll be able to seduce other hospitals as well. Among the general hospitals there are others that are established by the municipalities and will be covered by the central government in the future. So if you look at the general numbers, you might want to look inside them. In 2014, it is as if the number of employees increased by much because there have been just such shifts. I mean this hospital and Elron, and there have been some other facilities. I'm gonna hand over this whole chart to Andres Herkel, just like I promised you before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U61	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! For years, academic circles have been complaining about the lack of adequate involvement of existing competences within the scientific community in state governance and in major national decision-making, so that problems are not analysed or discussed by involving the parties involved. To what extent has the Estonian scientific community now been involved in planning and carrying out state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U63	A very good and logical question. As far as I am aware, in the first phase, when the activities so far have been analysed, what institutions have reformed as much as possible and which areas have been collapsed, which sectors have optimised their composition, the assistance of researchers has not been included. For the second stage, I am currently in debt to the answer, which is carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Who's getting involved? I'm assuming that population scientists are involved, but I suggest you ask Arto Asa, he'll be able to answer in more detail. Of course, it is right in the principle that scientists should be involved, I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U64	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I read in today's article by Jüri Raidla that there is a lack of the concept of state reform, which is why no one knows exactly what this state reform is waiting for. My question is to you as Prime Minister, of whom Jüri Raidla has also said in his Ten Commandments that the Prime Minister should be the head of the state. So, Mr. Head of State Strategist, what is this state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U66	That's a philosophical question enough. But we have quite consciously written down specific passages in the government union agreement. Administrative-territorial reform is more accurate to call self-government reform, which is a very specific matter: the aim is to have better services in every region of Estonia. This requires municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants or less than 10000 inhabitants to join and be able to offer better services. I think that we do not have any differences of opinion on this point, that everything is clear, that there is a defined, specific task statement. I myself, in my language, as you may have noticed, very often does not use the word'state reform'. That's because I feel a little awe of that word. It would be like assuming that we should completely reform the entire regime, as if we should deny that for the last 24 years Estonia has actually been very smartly, very well built up. Now it's like turning everything around, reforming it. The reform of the state is perhaps a bit too ambitious a word. At the same time, there is always reason to reform the state, the public sector. Life must be constantly renewed, constantly innovative, flexible solutions must be sought, opportunities for greater efficiency. I totally agree with that. There is scope for reforms in each specific area, including major reforms. I would stress that during this government's term of office, the biggest social reform in the last 15 years, initiated by the previous or, in fact, the previous government. During the previous government, the relevant laws were passed in Parliament, and now it is time for implementation. However, the areas where the government is planning reforms in Estonia are much more numerous. But yes, I'm a little careful using the word'state reform'. It would be as if we had to radically change our entire country and deny that we have actually built our country wisely enough. You can always make the country better, but if what you've done should be turned upside down, it's different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U67	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Point 4 of the Coalition Agreement refers to the reduction of duplication of activities. As we know, state reform has been about optimising the formations that have started, and for the last few months it has been under very strong steam. The greatest criticism is directed at the fact that, in fact, we should have started to pull together from the central government and, indeed, to reduce duplication. Examples include the duplication of activities of the Social Insurance Board and the Tax and Customs Board in the management of social tax. Can you explain clearly why you have just begun reducing jobs? If you had started with a substantive analysis, a substantial contraction of the country, there would be much less criticism. Right now, it's not all very serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U69	I'm saying the opposite. In my opinion, the people of Estonia have obviously received it very well. I always meet students, older people, entrepreneurs when I visit Estonia as far as possible. And speaking of this reform, I think there has been a lot of understanding. People understand that if a country wants to succeed, state and public administration must always be trimming in the best sense. Always have to be innovative and think about how to do things even better. That is generally understood. As far as central government is concerned, I do not understand the argument that the central government has not begun. On the contrary, we have started with the central government. All central government institutions have exactly the same specific tasks, including the State Chancellery, for example. The argument that the central government is irrelevant is incomprehensible to me, because it is absolutely not true. Now for consolidation of institutions. The Minister of Enterprise has taken the analysis of duplication of institutions in his field and is trying to find a way to consolidate the activities of EAS, the Development Fund, KredEx and several other institutions. How's that gonna work out? We'll see soon. As regards the possibilities for the Social Insurance Board to reduce its membership, they are certainly there. But we both know that everything depends very much on when a new and very complex information system will be completed, which will hopefully lead the Social Insurance Board to a whole new level of activity, as it will allow the modern solutions that are the norm in the Tax and Customs Board to be introduced when making payments. The Social Insurance Institution makes approximately 800000 payments each month to Estonian people. When these processes become more automatic, it is possible to do this work with somewhat fewer people. There are quite a number of examples, but I assure you that these issues are being dealt with everywhere. It is also clear that if we want to go into depth with an analysis of the work of specific institutions, it will take some time. We have planned to summarise in late spring this year, or about a year after the government took office. If we had been pursuing the budget at the beginning of September by either doing a very thorough analysis or doing nothing, then we should have failed to do everything in this time frame. That's not what we wanted. This is how we agreed to base our efforts on the reforms that have been carried out so far in different areas of administration. According to this, we set out tasks that differ four times from one administration to another. Each individual minister himself tells us which institution and how much savings need to be made. Ministers are certainly the most competent in their field to propose this. So let's live and see. In the summer, we can make the first summaries. There are certainly also areas where we are consciously increasing the number of employees. One such area is national defence. So this whole picture is much more complicated. It is not the case that just everyone has to cut by a certain number. The reality is quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U70	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U71	Thank you. I have to apologize. The Prime Minister has already come to my question, which would have affected the use of statistics in the management of the state, to answer and to a relatively thorough extent. No need to repeat. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U72	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U73	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm asking about administrative reform. Do you personally believe that the voluntary administrative reform in Estonia will succeed? In Europe, as far as I know, there is no positive example of this, perhaps you have different data. As far as I am aware, there are no examples of this; everywhere, the country has carried out a very vigorous administrative reform. The second part of the question is this: do you not think that the activities and functions of rural governments should also be reviewed in the context of administrative reform? Maybe in the future there could be some kind of strong administrative unit at county level. Do you rule out that rural government houses can be handed over to local governments if they join in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U74	There were several questions. I know that for nearly 20 years, administrative reform has been attempted in Estonia. I think it was Andres Herkel who wrote that in some matters Laar, Lauristin and Kallas agreed in five minutes. But that's one question they couldn't even agree on in quite a few years. We have agreed in the present coalition the fundamentals of how we will implement this reform. This has been a success for the first time. We are further away from this reform than ever before, and that gives us hope. Does this mean that the reform will be carried out by itself? Of course not. Anything can happen. In your Riigikogu, you can completely sink it and say that you do not need this reform. Anything's possible. But it is my recommendation and my request to you to cooperate on this matter for the benefit of Estonia and to think together how we can do it as well as possible. Now I come to the other side of your question. County-sized municipalities may come in Estonia from a perspective, but certainly not in all counties. For example, I can't imagine that one municipality in Harju County would be possible, covering the entire county, and Tallinn, for example, is out of it. Tallinn is the main attraction centre of the whole county. Let's say, Keila and Kuusalu have some very big "mutual pull" between them, it's hard to imagine. That is why I do not really imagine such a reform. Similarly, I believe that North and South Tartu are quite different, and there could probably be several municipalities there. I also see several centres in Ida-Virumaa and many others. The county-sized municipality is the most talked about in Hiiumaa, where it makes the most sense. There's a clear sea between them. Everything's understandable. In Saaremaa, the size of the island, i.e. the size of the island of Saaremaa, has been discussed, with Muhu being separate. I think it's a perfectly acceptable plan, too. Whether it reaches the size of the island or there are intermediate stages, it is now up to the islanders to decide. Things have moved there by themselves. At the same time, there have also been totally voluntary mergers in different Estonian counties. But in order for the local government leaders to understand that we really are serious, the law also provides for the possibility of the government joining the municipalities. I believe that the Estonian local government leaders have very well understood that this reform is now closer than ever and there is still reason to take the initiative seriously in order not to be a passenger in the backseat. You have to take the wheel yourself, agree with the leaders of neighbouring local governments on how to implement the reform. I quite seriously believe that those local government leaders who take the initiative will also be more successful in local elections, because local leaders will not be able to distance themselves from driving in the backseat on this issue. If they care anything about local life, my advice is to take control. That's the best way to get a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U75	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U76	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, In the meantime, we talked about the success of the Estonian state. Here we are certainly in agreement with the consensus that we all want the Estonian state to succeed. However, I ask you for two opinions. If Estonia has been successful in the last 25 years, will the people of Estonia succeed? I am referring to the emigration of Estonian residents to the Nordic countries and the standard of living of Estonia compared to the European Union average. Are the people of Estonia successful in this context? And secondly, I ask a little philosophically, because there have been other questions like this: do you think the country is for the people or are the people for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U77	That second question really got very philosophical. But, of course, an Estonian state is only needed if we also have Estonian people. It's hard enough to imagine a country without people. And we also need the country to protect our language and culture, Estonian in the broadest sense. This idea is much better formulated than I can in creating a constitution and later supplementing it. Now the question is whether the people of Estonia have also been successful. In my opinion, the vast majority of the country's success figures relate precisely to people's success. When we look at people's incomes, they have multiplied. If we look at the educational results of Estonian students, these are precisely the results of students, not abstractly just the results of education. If we look at any area, it is very difficult to divide Estonia's success and the success of the Estonian people. I do not know of any country in Europe where the increase in people's well-being would have been as rapid in 24.5 years as in Estonia. And we can be proud of that. I think we've done a lot of things right. I am grateful to all previous governments who have had the wisdom to make the right decisions. And if we are as smart as we are, I do not think it is absolutely impossible that the well-being of the Estonian people will be at the same level as that of the Finnish and Swedish people, for example, in the future. I see no objective reason why this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U78	No further questions. Thank you, Javier. I'm opening negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U79	Mr President, and those few colleagues who are interested in the reform of the state administration. It is very symbolic today that the Prime Minister answered questions about the reform of the state and Jüri Raidla, who has dealt with the reform of the state, published a long story in Postimees. But I recalled the Ten Commandments that he wrote back in his day. Let us look at them in this context, what has happened and how the current situation is. Remember, the first order was to turn the Riigikogu into 71 members. Looking at this hall right now, it might be a good idea to actually take it down even more. Second suggestion: the abolition of county governments and county elders. It hasn't gotten far. Third: the number of municipalities should be 15+. Administrative reform is in progress, there is no such radical situation and there is probably a lot of trouble. Fourthly, Eesti Pank's staff is greatly reduced. I don't think that's gonna be too much to touch. Fifthly, stop mass-production of laws, start putting smacks on it. As we recall, the Minister of Justice has reported to us here that this is being dealt with, so Jüri Raidla's proposal as it works. Indeed, if 386 laws have been passed since 1 January 2014 and 320 of them have been amended, then frankly, too much too much. But anyway, this thing is moving. Next, the sixth: a 15% reduction in the official body. We were talking about reducing 750 people this year, and there's a lot of screaming already. But this is just the beginning. Seventh: the Prime Minister must become the main route of the state, whose advisory bodies are the development fund that we want to kill here, and Eesti Pank, which does not want to be killed. That's a good idea, but it requires a sophisticated, mature prime minister. Eighth: Amendment of § 105 of the Constitution. This means that we could calmly start organising referendums and popular initiatives and would not be afraid that if there is a negative response, we in the Riigikogu should gather our shit and disperse. But we have not reached that point, although one idea to hold a referendum is also up at this point, I am thinking about the proposal of the Centre Party concerning migration. So what's left? According to Raidla, there are two options. First of all, the government comes up with something like this. As we have heard from the Prime Minister today, it is as if he does not dare define what this state reform is. I understand there's no definition that way. Initially, at least administrative reform will be pursued. The second possibility is that we here initiate the discussion of state reform as a matter of major importance on the basis of § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. It's already in our hands. What are we gonna do? Let's think about it and decide! In any case, I think that the state should think quite seriously not only about the administrative reform, which will result in the borders being drawn to either 5,000 or 11000, without discussing how the responsibilities of these authorities will be fulfilled and what will be the revenue base if five thousand-dollar municipalities are put together. Is there really going to be five schools, five libraries? Jne. We will soon come to these questions in this Chamber. But thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U80	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak, nor does the Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U81	The authors of the next inquiry are Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U82	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I would like to make an inquiry into amendments to the Arms Act. On 15 December 2015, the Ministry of the Interior sent a draft law amending the Arms Act and other laws related thereto to the Government of the Republic's coordination circle. The explanatory memorandum to the bill is full of misleading information, and the law itself is very likely to be contrary to the Constitution. The explanatory memorandum justifies a very drastic restriction of the right to hold a weapon for law-abiding persons to the terrorist threat, although there is no way to understand how illegal acts involving illegal weapons, or terrorism, can be reduced by the withdrawal of legitimate weapons from law-abiding citizens. However, according to the draft law, there are no substantive restrictions on gun clubs with hundreds of weapons and members of which are predominantly non-citizens or Russian-speaking citizens. That is why we are asking the following question. How many non-citizens have legal weapons in Estonia? In the last five years, how many crimes have been committed in Estonia by legal weapons owners? In the last five years, how many crimes have been committed in Estonia by non-citizens? How many gun clubs are there in Estonia and how many weapons are there? Which weapons are mostly? How many of these gun clubs operate every day in Russian or other languages that are not the official language of Estonia? I assume that the Estonian state has an overview of the potential threat that Russian-speaking gun clubs pose to our security, for example, the organisation of internal riots or the situation of foreign invasions. What are the State's measures to mitigate these risks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U83	Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let us try to clarify these issues a little bit. I don't quite want to agree with the explanation you gave to terrorism that terrorism is an illegal act committed with illegal weapons, but it is what it is. I'll come to your questions. The first question: 'How many legal weapons do non-citizens have in Estonia? " Let's do the statistics so we can paint the picture at all, then you can appreciate it. There are approximately 28000 gun owners in Estonia, some 66000 small-scale civilian weapons have been registered and a total of 2963 firearms are held by nationals of another country. Persons of undefined nationality account for 43% of this group, citizens of the Russian Federation 42%, Finnish citizens 5% and the remaining 10% are nationals of another country. The second question: 'How many crimes have taken place in Estonia over the last five years by legal weapons owners? ' A total of 101 crimes have been committed using firearms in the last five years. Half of the cases were non-registered firearms. In 2015 13 crimes were committed with a firearm, 11 of which were used with a registered firearm and two with a non-registered firearm. Question 3: 'How many armed crimes by non-citizens have taken place in Estonia over the last five years? " The answer is that in the last five years citizens of another country have committed eight crimes involving the use of firearms, three of which took place last year. Question 4: "How many gun clubs are in Estonia and how many weapons are in these gun clubs? ' It is a little more difficult to respond to this, because the specific nature of Estonian law must be taken into account here. Legal persons do not always have to write down exactly what their club activities are. But you can still bring something out. In total, there are 87 legal persons in Estonia who have links to weapons in a way or another, at least such data can be seen from the register. These include sports schools, shooting sports organisations, hunting societies, banks, security companies, but also arms dealers, for example. 1674 firearms have been registered in the name of legal persons in Estonia. The largest number of firearms are, of course, sports schools and similar organisations, but also security companies, for example. Question 5: "How much of these gun clubs operate in Russian or other non-state languages on a daily basis? ' To continue with the previous answer, it should be taken into account that persons with a private-law permit may also be grouped in a non-club or club manner, and that the activities of this club are not always mentioned, for example, as shooting sports or something like that. However, if you look at what the legislator has said about when a licence may be granted and when it is not, we do not need to be able to obtain a licence in the field of arms and ammunition. If, for example, a legal person requests this authorisation and wishes to be an arms dealer or a wholesale or retailer of arms, there is no specific language proficiency requirement. But with regard to the number of clubs operating predominantly in Russian, I can say that it is less than ten. I would like to emphasise once again that there may also be clubs which have been authorised under the Arms Act and clubs based on the activities of private individuals that do not have such a licence. The sixth question is whether the Estonian state has an overview of the subject. I'm getting pretty close here. Yeah, we got an overview. Yes, its review is mainly prepared by the services with the red temple. If there is a desire to have a more detailed overview, I would suggest that you ask for it from the Special Committee on Security Oversight, where it is also possible to deal with materials protected by state secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U85	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U86	Thank you very much, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have to say that we have a very good overview of the situation. I'm very pleased. But I have a broader question now. The draft Arms Act was sent to the coordination circle and accompanied by such PR, as if Estonia had a serious problem with weapons, weapons-related crime or also crimes committed by legal weapons owners. The figures you've read to us now, at least I didn't get the impression that we had problems with the legal weapons owners or the crimes committed with these weapons. How do you assess whether the situation is good, bad or mediocre? If the situation is polite, what has led to the initiative that the arms law will be considerably tightened?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U87	Thank you. We didn't do any grand PR. I am very pleased that interest groups were interested in amendments to the arms law. We have met a lot of stakeholders, we are analysing all the amendments in these weeks, after which we will do a new version of the draft and then we will discuss it further. We are certainly interested that Estonia's defence will not weaken, we are also interested that the Estonian state has an overview of the weapons owned by private individuals. If individuals have the will to contribute to the protection of the Estonian state and to be faithful and faithful to the Estonian state, their regulations will be different from those of those who, for example, are not members of the Defence League or whose background needs to be checked more. There has also been a proposal on the Weapons Act that the weapons examination should be carried out in Estonian only in the future. We are discussing these proposals. However, whether or not there is a need to change the issue of weapons is not only due to our thoughts, whether or not the same test question for example, but it is now under discussion in the European Union whether or not the firearms that are moving within the European Union should be better controlled. Everyone has the understanding that, yes, it should be possible to better identify both weapons and parts of weapons, and this should also be jointly regulated, for example, how to deactivate weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U88	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is to be welcomed that in the future it would only be possible to pass the weapons examination in Estonian. But has the Ministry of the Interior also been discussing restricting the ability of non-citizens to hold a weapon? Of course, in many countries of the European Union, only nationals of that country are allowed to possess weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U90	Thank you. As I said in answering the previous question, we are most likely to differentiate the rights of gun owners. Those who are more loyal and loyal to the Estonian state and who have carried out such checks, such as members of the Defence League, will most likely have greater freedoms, but those who have not done so will probably be subject to stricter restrictions. Whether we stick to the restriction that a weapon can only be held by persons of Estonian nationality, I have little doubt, because we also have citizens of the European Union. For example, when hunters come here from another Member State of the European Union, the same question should be asked whether or not they need a weapons permit here. Similarly, if a person comes here, for example, from the United States, who is prepared to pass the weapons test and the weapons test, I am not entirely convinced that we should restrict this right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U91	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U92	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have read that in Germany the number of people who would like to buy a weapon has increased dramatically due to the increase in the number of refugees. My question has to do with this. Does the Minister not fear that the number of gun owners in Estonia will increase much after the first refugees have reached our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U93	Thank you. Every citizen of the Republic of Estonia and any person living in Estonia can obtain a weapons permit in accordance with the requirements of the Weapons Act. If a person meets these requirements, takes the test and shows the weapon he has acquired, then he has the right to possess the weapon. Are we going to restrict this right or not? As long as people meet the requirements of the Weapons Act, they have the right to obtain a weapons permit and, if necessary, a weapon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U94	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U95	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I come back to this nationality-related restriction. However, do you not think it would be more reasonable to provide that a citizen of the European Union has the right to acquire a weapons permit in Estonia? However, examples of citizens of the United States or Third World countries are very few exceptions. You have read to us that there are over 2,900 non-citizen weapons owners and 42% of them are citizens of the Russian Federation and 43% are probably non-citizens at all. That's close to 90%. 5% are Finnish citizens. Citizens of the United States or other countries are rare exceptions here. However, our security situation is still very different from that of the other countries of the European Union. Therefore, do you not consider this restriction necessary to provide only for the right of European Union citizens to acquire a weapons permit in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U96	Thank you. As I said, 10% are those who have other nationality, who are not undefined and who are not Finnish or Russian citizens. According to current statistics, weapons owners of other nationalities were probably 2963, so that the size of 300 guns is held by third-country nationals, including European Union citizens. We will review the amendments to the arms law, we will certainly ask the Chancellor of Justice's opinion, and then we will come to this Chamber and we will be able to argue further here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U97	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said there's a dozen of these Russian-speaking clubs and there's about 1,600 guns, if I remember correctly. How big are these clubs and how big are the membership of these clubs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U99	Thank you. This is where you misinterpreted. Don't put it in that form, for God's sakes! Once again, 87 companies or legal entities have 1674 firearms as legal entities. Among these are Eesti Pank, security companies, sports clubs and shooters' organisations. Don't take it the way I said that there are fewer than ten clubs, that these less than ten clubs that are predominantly Russian-speaking have 1,600 guns. That's very wrong. Let's get this sorted out. If you look at how many members there are in these clubs, we don't have a so-called clear countdown on it. We have certain reviews, but as I said, these are the kind of things I can't introduce to everyone here in front of me and in public speaking to the microphone. If you have a more precise interest and also the necessary permission, we will be able to introduce all this to you for your signature.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U100	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Having a gun is one thing, holding, carrying and storing a gun, another thing. You were talking about non-citizens and everything. How are they holding weapons, do they have weapons lockers, do they read them, are they watching, or are there more than 50 bullets in the safe? There may be a million guns in that closet, but there may be only 50 bullets under gun law. When will it be checked whether or not there will be any observation, whether there is an overview of it at all? You read to us that there are so many guns, so many citizens, but do you even know where these guns are?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U102	Thank you for your question. Yeah, we do. There is currently such an exception in the Weapons Act that if there is one handgun, there is no need to have a safe for it. There was also a debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on whether or not to change it. But if a person has more firearms, of course, all the requirements of the Weapons Act must be met. The Police and Border Guard Board are controlling it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U103	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We submitted this question because, as many interest groups mentioned here, we were astonished and disturbed by the explanatory statement of this bill. I'm not sure the Minister has read this explanatory statement, but the tone through it is hostility to possession of a weapon and to the owners of weapons. At the same time, neither the explanatory memorandum nor the legislative amendment itself paid any attention to the problems that we actually have with security. I mean the same gun clubs we asked about and what is, as we understand it, under the red temple. They may be sources of national security risk. What is our attitude toward weapons? There are three important things that need to be understood when we talk about the right to possess and carry a weapon. The totalitarian governments hate possession of weapons and weapons because the weapon is the hallmark of a free man, a free man. The weapon is not only of national defence importance, but it is of course the most important in Estonia. In Estonia, however, a very large proportion of the population should have armed themselves for defence purposes either through the Defence League or through the acquisition of a personal weapon. Another important element in the right to possess a weapon is the protection of property, family and home. The most sensible country is one where people do not have to call on the state to help, but they can work out their own relationships. The most reasonable thing is that a criminal knows that if he invades any other house, he has a chance of getting shot in the face. In this case, we have a much safer society than when all people are unarmed and have to call for help and wait for critical minutes or, as we do in Estonia, for hours until the police arrive. There is a third, very, very important thing that is known especially well by American citizens, because it is written in the Bill of Rights of these Constitutional Rights. That's a second point right there. The right to carry a weapon is an inalienable right of free citizens, by which they also defend themselves against the arbitrary use of state power. Unfortunately, in the light of the immigration crisis in Europe, we are seeing more and more of this abuse of state power, we are seeing a situation where legitimate power refuses to protect citizens because of political dogma or ideology, and at the same time starts to repress these same citizens, because citizens do not want their homeland to become a developing country of the Third World, say so. The state must fear the citizens, not the citizens must fear the state. Armed people are helping with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U105	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? No, it's not. I'm sorry, Mr Sults would like a word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U106	Honourable colleagues! Good President! I've always admired the southerners, the Chechens, the Georgians and the Sicilians, because of the order they have in the house. Once they have a man in the house because these men and these families know that everyone's got a gun under their armpits. If you insult someone, you know it will never go unpunished. If you hurt someone, you know it will never go unpunished. The order is completely in the house and not just in order, but in very precise order. There is a certain order in which operations are done, apologized and all other things done. Everyone can spit on everyone's face and nothing happens, there will only be an administrative penalty, five euros fine, and that's the whole story. I'm not in favour of killing each other, I'm not in favour of shooting on the street, so if someone comes into my territory, I'm gonna blow up, they're gonna clean up the bodies, and I'm gonna be the right guy. There's no way I'm in favour of this. I'm more like a pacifist. However, there is a very good saying that the colt made everything equal. He really made everything equal. Why aren't all these types of things qualified as weapons? In the law of weapons, one hundred-pound wolf dogs, black-belted taekwondo, aikido enthusiasts, hand-to-hand combat champions who will cut you to pieces in 2.5 seconds, so that all the tendons will disperse. They can walk around any way they want, they don't register anywhere, even though they're professional killers. In the old days, I did not nostalgize for the Russian army that he who came back from the landing forces signed that he was not allowed to use the techniques he had learned for three years. When he did, they shut him down. Why don't we have these things? We've got a lot of people walking around with guns all the time, and these guns are two fists, two legs and a head. Think about it. What do I do, for example, if I don't have my fists and legs and they do their job when I need to, I'm defending myself against some trained killer? But if I use a gun against him, I'm guilty because I didn't use an equivalent weapon or defense technique. That's what I wanted to point out. It's not the gun that kills, it's the man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U107	Thank you. There really isn't any more calls. We're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U108	Let's go to the fourth question. This is an inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, Külliki Kübarsep, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Andres Herkel and Andres Ammas about possible abuses at the Police and Border Guard Board, which has been submitted to the Minister of the Interior. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U109	Good deputy speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Indeed, some time ago he received an inquiry, motivated by two cheques. These cheques brought us a so-called whistleblower, and they showed that the director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board had misused the so-called state-owned credit card. It is not my nature to seek out how other people have used a credit card and done other such activities, but this story reminded us of an old Latin phrase, the quote "licet Iovi," "non licet bovi," which is promised to Jupiter, is not allowed for bulls. This phrase was introduced to describe double standards. It is precisely the double standards that bothered me and our group on this issue. We are such a small society that we should not have Jupiters or gods who can act the same, and a people, or ox, who must behave differently. If you come specifically to the Police and Border Guard Board, this is an office that basically controls the legal behaviour of all of us. Its leader should, in a sense, be a pattern person in society, or, as one of my friends says, he should show a directional signal even if there are no people around. The second thing I want to emphasise is what whistleblowers do. I don't want to judge the whistleblower, the woman who brought us those checks. He's a former Police and Border Guard officer who brought this violation to our attention. It's always a place of consideration, which is a whistleblower's motive and why he does it. I can safely say that 90% of whistleblowers' motives may be offended, but very many of the undiscovered acts have still been violations and, thanks to whistleblowers, many have changed in societies. If we come back to the Police and Border Guard Board, we know there has been a lot of reform in this office lately. This means that a great many people have to be gathered from there. During the redundancies, it is clear that there will be insults. All the more so, the Director-General of the Office should make sure that he does not commit irregularities himself, does not do wrong, and so on. One more thing I want to draw attention to, and what I have learned in the course of these events, is that the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board itself is very harsh in imposing penalties. Every single violation of the police officers under his command will be severely punished. If you're so tough to punish others, you're still gonna have to be a black man at the head of the institution. We are generally satisfied. It wasn't our intention to take the chief police officer out of office. We are generally satisfied that the government, too, agreed that there was an infringement here, and exhorted for it. But we call on all Estonian civil servants to behave with dignity and to set an example for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U110	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U111	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I didn't quite understand whether I had to answer the questions or not, but since the question has been asked, we are going over these issues once. The first question concerned my assessment of whether Estonia's security is in any way compromised or whether these expenses of the Director General have increased or reduced Estonia's security. I believe that this issue has been addressed quite a bit in the public media. The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board has also been quite open to commenting. He has drawn his own conclusions from both the substance and the ethical point of view. We also carried out an urgent audit. The audit gave certain recommendations that the Police and Border Guard Board should change in its behaviour. I'm glad they've already changed some things, but I'm sure there's still some process going on there. I very much hope that the Director-General learned a very good lesson, both from the discussion of the topic by the heirs and, more broadly, from the media. The second question concerned the human resources policy of the Police and Border Guard Board. I can say here, however, about the specific case to which you referred in the question, that the formal procurement and the related changes in staff policy were necessary at the time. This need has now also been assessed by the Labour Dispute Committee to which the fired person has turned. The Labour Dispute Commission has found that the decision of the Police and Border Guard Board to dismiss this person due to a loss of trust was correct. The third question concerned whether field workers have formal kits and how much time it takes to organise a new procurement. I can confirm that everyone who needs to do field work has a field form, but not all police officers may have all the uniforms. Among other things, the Director-General does not have all the formal elements. The new form is being developed. It is certainly important to develop a new form so that the form can be ordered on a rolling and flexible basis. For example, when a new employee arrives, he needs to find suitable models quickly. This logistics should be in place. One of the problems that the Director-General has explained to the public was this boot issue. One of the reasons for this was that there were problems with logistics and that there were no suitable boots at the time. But the new form is definitely going on. We want to get there with this procurement as soon as possible so that we can actually start sewing our uniforms. I've been working on the current police uniforms for quite a while. Even if the field forms are still very behind time, their fabric is not breathing, running after the villain in this uniform, sometimes, figuratively speaking, you have to pour water out of your pants. They've gotten way behind the clock, but the police must be wearing decent breathing clothes. I very much hope that this procurement goes to work reasonably and quickly. The fourth question concerned one particular member of staff who wished to stand as a candidate in the elections and who was then transferred to another post. I've asked for further explanations. Let it be said in the introduction that at the Police and Border Guard Board, servants can realise their own free will if they want to apply for something. It is simply a question of what position someone is in. It should be taken into account that the investigation of corruption offences means, among other things, that politicians are sometimes also exposed. It was therefore the decision of the Police and Border Guard Board that the work would be reorganized in this department. Such a solution was considered more appropriate in relation to that person. As far as I know, the appeal procedure on this matter has also ended. Question 5: How do you intend to act to prevent the PPA from becoming a closed and uncontrolled sanctioning body? ' As far as I know, the Police and Border Guard Board doesn't have any plans to be locked up in any way. The Police and Border Guard Board is open and has proven it. If it's necessary to share information, it'll be shared. But there's a little 'but' here. There are sections of the Police and Border Guard Board that cannot be publicly commented upon. This nuance must be added. Otherwise, I believe the institution is open. This may also be demonstrated by the media's own assessment of who admitted the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board as the press friend of the year. I am also personally deeply convinced that the police must share as much information as possible. The only restrictions that can be imposed still relate to the fact that disclosure could undermine one or the other specific procedure or the subject matter is covered by state secrecy. In other cases, I do not see any restrictions as to why the police could not give an overview of their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U112	Thank you, Minister. You have a question. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U113	Good President! Good minister! Indeed, this issue has been dealt with very much in the press. But there was also a joke in the press about a yellow card. What category of disciplinary sanctions does such a yellow card belong to, and what does it actually mean to give such a card? The second part of the question concerns the audit of the earlier period. Have you also audited the previous use of credit cards by the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and have you audited the use of credit cards by other members of the management?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U114	Thank you. As far as the yellow card is concerned, for the first time the expression was used by an Estonian media publication. If I remember correctly, it was the Estonian Päevaleht who used the expression that there is a yellow card place here. With regard to the substance of the assessment of this matter, when I took a decision, I appreciated what would be the effect of one decision or another, whether, for example, formally reprimanding as a disciplinary sanction would be more effective than what had already taken place at that point. In my opinion, it is far more important than the formal punishment that the Director-General understands the public attention involved in his activities and makes corrections accordingly. That's what he made. In my opinion, the impact of public condemnation here has been much stronger than the impact of a formal penalty on paper. That is why my decision in football was limited to a yellow card. As far as I am concerned, the Police and Border Guard themselves have published data on the use of credit cards in previous years. I have talked to the Director-General about previous expenditures and I have also received explanations about them. Likewise, as far as I know, the expenditure of the Police and Border Guard Board has been reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U115	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We're done answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U116	Let's go to today's final question. This is an inquiry submitted by members of the Riigikogu Uno Kaskpeiti, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla concerning the educational requirements of a police officer and a senior officer of the Police and Border Guard Board. The inquiry has again been submitted to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Uno Kaskpeiti!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U117	Mr. President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry was prompted by such an amazing thing that, since December 2009, the police and border guard office has been amended five times, if I have understood correctly. The regulation was formulated in such a way that the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Director-General of the Defence Police Department, their deputies and the Prefect must have a master's degree or an equivalent qualification. This Regulation has been repealed and the period for its entry into force has been deferred. During this period of the Minister's rule, I believe that this period has been extended three times; once again, the previous regulation has been repealed and a new deadline has been set. The last change in educational requirements was in January this year. Mostly, it's still a single hero, the director-general of the police department. Most surprisingly, the re-independence Republic of Estonia is already 25 years old, but we cannot find properly educated people who could work in this position. We therefore have some questions for the Minister. Firstly, how is it possible for the Minister of the Interior to change the conditions of employment in the Police and Border Guard Board according to individuals? Secondly, what is the motivation of those working in the organisation if they see that officials are made redundant for more insignificant reasons than the requirements of compliance with the law? Thirdly, how is it possible that there are persons within the organisation to whom a continuous discount is required in order to meet the requirements of the post? Fourthly, are there no suitably educated people in the entire Police and Border Guard Board, or is there any other reason for such a reduction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U118	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U119	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let's take a look at some professional requirements. To be honest, during my term of office, these have been specified four times. This was the first time in June 2014. We were then talking about border guards whose position changed and who were appointed to a second post from 1 July. They're the ones we promised to work on. At the end of December, we did indeed specify the wording of the head's educational requirement, which included a master's degree requirement. On 18 June last year, we talked about the requirements for cadets in police service, and at the end of last year, we specified the requirements for the physical preparation of police officers. This is what has happened during my term of office. There really was a change before that. As regards the requirements for the Director-General, the Government of the Republic discussed this issue at its meeting on 13 June 2013 and concluded that perhaps it would be reasonable to be a little more flexible with these requirements. Following a discussion by the government, the Ministry of the Interior also held a debate and it was found that since the top management was not considered necessary to have a master's degree across the country and the heads of the Police and Border Guard Board who had been in service had been able to prove themselves as capable leaders, the tightening of these educational requirements would not have been justified. However, it was considered appropriate that a master's degree be necessary for all those who would like to become the Director-General of this office in the future. The second question concerns people's motivation. As far as the ministry is concerned, I can answer that the Ministry has approved the human resources strategy, which also applies to the Police and Border Guard Board. Our interest is to promote a flexible and developing career for people. It also means keeping and training people and changing requirements over time. At the same time, we must take into account that this flexibility can also mean changing situations. People have been made redundant before. The grounds for dismissal are, of course, clearly stated in the law; this cannot be a subjective decision. The third question concerns how it is possible that a constant discount should be applied. If you can give me an example of something that doesn't comply with the law, I'd be happy to look at it. Here it may be appropriate to go to the fourth question: 'Does the entire Police and Border Guard Board have no suitably educated people or is there any other reason to make such a discount? ' Let it be said that at the Police and Border Guard Board, we know there are 450 people with master's degrees. Speaking of this day, I am happy to tell you that the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board has a master's degree now. But let it be said once again that it is not the most important thing that the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board has a master's degree. It is important that, apart from education, the Director-General has a great many other qualities, both personality qualities and other qualities necessary for the chief executive, be it team management skills, strategic thinking or something like that. Choosing a leader is a complex decision. Of course, both education and other characteristics of a person are viewed as suitable for one job or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U120	Thank you. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U121	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Do these other features include the correct handling of credit cards? But that wasn't my question. My question, however, is that if the current Director-General can continue to receive a discount on educational requirements, but the next ones will not perhaps have more stringent requirements and if more flexibility is needed, we will need to have such papers that are being converted according to people. In essence, however, you admit that these papers are converted according to people. Why do you want to do these pokazukhah papers? Couldn't there be more discretion and fewer claims? Perhaps you could leave the responsibility of someone who decides to hire one person or another instead of doing such a circus?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U122	Thank you. It's a bit of a philosophical question. You and the Prime Minister also had a little philosophical conversation here. If you ask me philosophically whether I am more in favour of discretion or more in favour of writing down, then in any case I am more in favour of discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U123	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! However, the fact that you say there are over 400 people with master's degrees in the system is somewhat confusing, but then the authority of a person with no master's degree is repeatedly extended. Doesn't that mean that the face of one person is chosen to be the so-called one? A new public competition should be announced, as the rightholder does not meet the requirements imposed by the state for this post and then select over 400 masters from among those who meet these requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U125	Thank you. I have a feeling you're not listening to what I'm saying here. I replied very clearly that the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board has a master's degree today. [[Interjection.]] As far as previous decisions are concerned, as I said, today's Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board was in office before I took office. In my opinion, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board has been a good leader. I have always had a clear demand for him: he must receive a master's degree. He's got it for today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U126	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It is demagoguery because it received this degree only at the beginning of this year and even at the beginning of the year another amendment to the regulation was made. So you shouldn't talk about it. It's only because of this person that the regulation has been amended three times, and now you're here to praise everyone that he's a superconductor. Nice super manager, when these credit card things, boot shopping and shit come out. I just don't have the words anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U128	Thank you. I realized it was a rhetorical question that didn't need an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U129	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U130	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, During this inquiry, it was confirmed that we really have special people in Estonia, according to which the system will be adapted. Indeed, the current director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board is so indispensable that regulations need to be amended for his sake, and his excellent working skills and personal qualities are so high that he can also close two eyes in the event of financial misuse. What we can say about these two enquiries is that there is a minister in the Ministry of Public Order and Security who, rather than being correct and straightforward, has adopted a certain culture of corruption, according to which mussing, wrestling and adapting to circumstances is a daily practice. We find it very sad that such a culture flourishes in the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U131	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U132	Good Martin Helme! Surely we have not adopted any corruption-stricken scheme, or whatever the wording you had. Like I said, Elmar Vaher was in office before I became Minister of the Interior. I've been happy with Elmar Vaher's work, I've asked him to take his Master's degree as soon as possible. He's acquired it for today. Elmar Vaher has been a good leader for the Police and Border Guard Board. If you have another opinion, that is your opinion. I am satisfied with Elmar Vaher's work and do not see the need for me to explain, justify or report anything else to you about him. The Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board will continue to work, he will meet all the requirements of the regulation and the law, and I believe he will continue to do this work well in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U133	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. Today's inquiries have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U134	Today's last item is a free microphone. Anyone who still has a desire to speak has the opportunity to do so after a hammer hit. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U135	Mr President! I'm not gonna take much time from you. I want to continue my series of free microphone calls last year, which deals with the issues of our Rules of Procedure, and to switch to questions relating to the work of committees. Today it is a question of § 106 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, which states which amendments can be put to the vote by the performer in this large Chamber and which cannot be voted on. Most of you have started working in the Riigikogu since the 2003 elections. Me, Eiki Nestor and Mart Nutt are the only ones who remember the rules of procedure that existed before that. This procedure was that, if someone tabled an amendment which was not supported by the Commission, in any case, the author had the right to request that the proposal be put to the vote, even if it had not received any votes in committee. Since the 2003 amendment, § 106 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu applies, the second sentence of paragraph 2 of which states: "Voting shall not be subject to an amendment which was not taken into account by the commission and which received less than two votes in favour. ' If we read the comments of the Rules of Procedure, we will see that the commentator is in trouble as a lawyer and says this: 'The second sentence of Paragraph 106 (2) of the ICDC does not put an amendment which was not taken into consideration by the commission and which received less than two votes in favour in the commission, i.e. one vote in favour or none. The aim of this provision is procedural economy: not to burden the vote in plenary on amendments which received only the minimum support of the commission, and which therefore have virtually no prospects of obtaining the support of the assembly. ' When I think about the time that I was a member of the Riigikogu last time, there was a lot of these cases when someone put forward a smart proposal, it didn't get any votes for the committee, the author of the proposal called for a vote, and the Riigikogu plenary voted in favour of this proposal. There were, of course, isolated cases of abuse of this right. I am reminded that during the process of processing the first version of the Family Act, a member of the Riigikogu must have been offended by the fact that his proposals with the second concept were not taken into account, all his proposals were consistently put to the vote. In the hall, it was then that these proposals still received one vote in favour and some kind of more vote against. Why am I talking about this? I recently had the opportunity to participate in a television show where people who were not particularly familiar with the work of the Riigikogu asked why the vote on the committee was done in a way and not differently. I was then able to explain that I consider this paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, which I am talking about, to be a complete crime in our Rules of Procedure, which works against the working principles of the Riigikogu. I, too, have had experience at present that the Commission, for example, had to vote on the proposals of a group which does not have any representatives in one committee or another, or those whose supporters in the Commission are few. I have promised myself that, for example, if the IRL, which has only one member in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, makes a proposal, or do so by the Social Democrats, who also have one member, I will vote second in support of it, regardless of the content of the proposal, purely so that they can put their proposal to the vote in the big Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-08_U136	Thank you. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Good night. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.54 p.m.
