ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 36 members of the Riigikogu are present in the Chamber. The members of the government will be Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, and Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence. As a result of the number of respondents registered yesterday, I will be able to ask one additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U2	The first questioner is Uno Kaskpeit and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! The construction of a state border is a nationally important undertaking and that is why today's questions are addressed to you. What about the construction of the border now, and how is border surveillance and border patrols ensured at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U4	Thank you. I fully agree with you that the construction of the border is a nationally important undertaking, and I am happy to speak about it regularly before you here. We have a total budget of EUR 70 million, which has been allocated over the years, according to the country's budgetary strategy. True, since some of the preparatory work has taken a little longer than expected in the first year, some of the work is moving from 2016 to 2017, but I have been assured by the Ministry of the Interior that we are on schedule for the final date. Just some of the design and preparation has taken longer than planned. I am also pleased to say that an agreement has been reached with a lion's share of landowners whose property is concerned with the construction of the border. More specifically, there is an agreement with 109 out of 112 landowners. The negotiations with the three landowners are still ongoing, but they may also be able to resolve the issues. At present, most of the border strip has been scrapped, only a 17 km section still needs deforestation, which so far has not been able to be done because too much rain has rained in the summer, and also because talks with these three landowners are still ongoing. As far as border surveillance is concerned while construction is under way, of course it is also meant for this. The security of the border must not be affected by and cared for the construction work being carried out. In general, we can be sure that Estonia will have a very safe eastern border.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U5	Questions to be specified. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm afraid I have the opposite information. At the eastern border, RMK has finished its larger forest work. The land by the border strip has been turned upside down by heavy machinery. Forest exports have created large rails, border guards have built sails and patrolmen have been broken. High brush has grown along the border, patrolling has become impossible because the border area has become impenetrable. How do you explain this situation? Or isn't it important at all? The main thing is that the state got its money from the harvest? Who's supposed to cut down the brush, reconstruct the patrolmen and the sails?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U7	Thank you. I think there was a lot of misinformation in that assessment. If a completely new border strip is established, along with new patrol tracks, along with new sails, it may happen that some of the existing ones will not be used in the future. On the contrary, with this investment, we will achieve that the border has not grown, that there is at least a 10-metre wide cleaned border band. Not only has it been cleared of the forest, but a sand strip is also being created, geotextiles are being laid down in many places, so that new bushes and other vegetation may not grow there in the future. All of this is being dealt with. My understanding is that it is much easier to maintain the new border than has been the case so far. It is no secret that border guards have had to do brush cutting and lawn mowing on the unbuilt border themselves. This isn't really a border guard job. So if we get a new, properly built border, the border guards can focus on border surveillance, which is their main task. They also get more decent patrolmen to patrol. It's all meant to be, it's all part of building a border.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U8	And the last point to be specified. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! You said nicely a few minutes ago that the border is a state-of-the-state very important facility, and it needs to be built up. Please explain to me why the Estonian border became very important in the eyes of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior only after this embarrassing incident with the Eston Suitcase, when one operation failed at the border and we, I cannot say, were captured by a scout or a coworker. After that, we started building the border, we didn't do it before. Did you really need a sudden incident that started to generate all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U10	Yeah, well, you can blame every government for not doing one job or another. There are a lot of things that previous governments have not done and that the current government is doing, such as building the Tallinn highway for four lines up to Mäoni and administrative reform. And there must be more. But I am far from complaining about failing previous governments. I guess there were other priorities at the time. We must also take into account that, since 2005, there has been a hope that it will be possible to ratify the border agreement quite quickly and, after that, that the border can be built in exactly the form that it is formally designated in the border agreement, not on the line of reference that we are currently guarding. After this case you referred to, we discussed the situation with the Minister for the Interior and with the Government in general and decided that we should not wait for the ratification of the border treaty because the lion's share of the border coincides with the control line. So there hasn't really been any physical impediments to these jobs. We discussed the situation and decided that this work was important to us. We have already agreed in a wider circle in the country's budget strategy, in the entire office, that we will give EUR 70 million, which is a very large investment. And so it's gone. Now this work is well advanced and in a few years the eastern border will be built. Once the border agreement is ratified, we will also be able to build the border within a few percent of what the border line is different from the line of reference, properly, as the treaty provides.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U12	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U13	Mr. President! Dear Minister, The question concerns the situation that began with Russian warplanes flying with unplugged transponders. Russia has invited the Baltic Sea States to participate in consultations on the security of the Baltic Sea in this regard. What are the possible future developments and prospects in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U14	Good questioner, thank you! To take all the tensions off this subject immediately, I say that we have informed the Russian Federation that we are not going to Moscow for bilateral consultations. The reason is very simple: we have a number of opportunities to discuss these issues with Russia within the framework of the existing formats. I would like to mention, for example, the NATO-Russian Council, which has already been together several times this year and where Moscow has raised this issue, as well as the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We have a series of agreements of every kind that Russia regrettably fails to comply with on these issues. As the good questioner said, transponder topics are very often raised, which is why air security aircraft from our allies in Estonia often have to take off. The Russians often do not respond to calls for aviation communications when they are asked who they are and where they are going. They just don't react, they don't make flight plans, they do aggressive air manoeuvres. There are many such issues to discuss, but the formats involved already exist and, frankly, we will not solve these problems on a bilateral basis. I do not think we can only talk about the security of the Baltic Sea on these issues. Security across Europe is uniform and indivisible. This is exactly what the Russian air force and the other military are acting unpredictablely everywhere, such as in the Black Sea region. We all know what happened in Ukraine. This is a very big problem, and not even in Europe, but I would say at a global level. There are things that we simply cannot accept as civilised and respectful countries of international law. Finally, when we are talking about air traffic, Tokyo, Beijing, Saigon is always flying planes across the Baltic Sea region, across the Baltic Sea to other Europe. So there's a lot of parties, we're not doing anything bilaterally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U15	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. We have two minutes to respond. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, If the allies, if we say that the neighbouring countries have been consulted, is there any other decision possible in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U17	Thank you. Yes, Russia's invitation was not only about Estonia, but also about other countries in the region, although not all the countries of the Baltic Sea. As far as I am aware, this invitation was not received by Germany, which has every legitimate right to participate in security matters in the region, nor by Denmark, for example. Since we are all good partners, friends and allies in Europe, I think it is self-evident that we are shaping a common position on these issues first and also responding to Moscow in the same way. As I have already said, we have informed Russia of our decision, and I have no reason to believe that other countries will take a different position on this matter. What does the future hold? I think that if Russia has the desire to be open and show good will in resolving these issues, we will put these issues on the table in the NATO-Russian Council or in other formats that I mentioned, for example, in the OSCE. It is also essential that Russia simply assume its existing obligations. There's been a talk here about whether we have good will or no good will. Of course, we have good will, but good will could also be shown by Moscow in fulfilling its obligations. We do not have to wait for any plane crash over the Baltic Sea to show good will and cooperation. These questions seem somewhat more complicated than they really are. I think we need to be ready for open communication with Russia, and in the formats I have mentioned, we are ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U18	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U19	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! If, as a Member of Parliament, I would like to communicate with Russian officials or Russian officials, from whom do I have to ask permission? Do I have to consult our partners in NATO in advance, or how does this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U20	Perhaps you need to communicate with the chairman of your party on this matter. I don't know how you got these things settled at the Centre Party. The members of the Riigikogu are, of course, free in their decisions, and I know that we also have a group of friends, which include people, I do not know how regular they have been with their Russian colleagues. I'm afraid that's all I can answer. You certainly don't have to come and ask me if you want to go on a mission, and that's justified. I recall from the time of my head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that our people also visited St Petersburg, for example. I do not believe that anyone in the Republic of Estonia is putting a hand on such communication. Of course, it's a matter of course what to talk about in these communication formats. I think we are shaping our positions together with our allies, and we have finalised them on this issue. I see no connection between your personal interests and relations between the Russian people and NATO and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U22	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U23	Thank you! Dear Taavi in the garment! In spring, the Riigikogu passed a framework law on administrative reform with reform parties, sots and IRL votes, setting a timetable and compulsory mergers. The representative of the government at the time, as well as the representatives of the government departments, promised that there would also be substantive laws laying down the role, tasks and funding for the municipalities in the future. They said that these content laws, even 18 pieces, would reach the Riigikogu by the end of the first semester at the latest. Now we're in the middle of September, the first half of the year has long passed, but these drafts have not reached us from the government. Are you deliberately delaying the Riigikogu to process these content laws in a few weeks at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U24	Thank you. First of all, I believe in parliamentarianism and that all the laws adopted by the parliament of the Republic of Estonia are precisely the laws of content. Mention some laws, including the law on administrative reform, which sets out the principles, content and details of one of the most important reforms in Estonia's history, in a way other than the law on content, I find it unfair to you. The most important decisions on administrative reform have been approved in this House a long time ago, and I am pleased about that. I am grateful to all the Members who have contributed to this. Indeed, there is still a plan to provide local authorities, either individually or jointly, within the county, with a number of functions that have so far been performed either at the state level or at the county level, but still by the central authority. Together with this, we want to give them the appropriate resources. The last time we discussed this on 25 August, we have now made a decision on what these functions are. An example is the task of developing the business environment, with which we hand over the transport of regional development centres. Or regional public transport centres, developed by municipalities and the Road Administration, etc. Actually, there's a pretty long list of things we can still give. In addition, on the same date in August, the government also discussed the fact that if we get large and capable municipalities as a result of the reform, it will be possible to abolish rural governments and assign some of their functions to local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U25	Kadri Simson, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U26	Several municipalities have turned to the Supreme Court because of the framework law on administrative reform adopted in spring. They will see that this law, and in particular the coercive alliances, goes against the meaning of the Constitution and violates the autonomy of local governments. I know that several more municipalities are planning to turn to the Supreme Court. Does the government have a plan B in case the Supreme Court recognises a contradiction with the Constitution and says that, in the way you intend to do, the municipalities must not be forced to join?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U27	Thank you. I do not believe that the purpose of the Constitution is to be a brake on the development of Estonia. Such an idea cannot be read out of it, and I do not believe that the Supreme Court will decide in favour of such an interpretation. I believe that these lawyers, including those who have written a very thorough opinion, and also Jüri Raidla, who have spoken very much on this subject, have the right to admit that any reform may be accompanied by certain barriers, but these barriers are clearly proportionate to the objective of administrative reform. There is nothing disproportionate here and this reform is necessary. On the contrary, it is one of those undertakings that your groupmate Heimar Lenk could rightly ask why this has not been done so far. So once again, the Constitution must not be used to hinder development. The role of the Constitution is to provide us with legal frameworks within which the Estonian state can successfully develop. The lion's share of municipalities has taken into account that administrative reform is necessary for this reform to take place. We have a total of 185 municipalities throughout Estonia who are either proposing or responding to the proposal in the accession negotiations. There are more than 50 of these regions, where the new municipalities are currently being agreed, and in two places the decision has already been taken by the government. More specifically, eight municipalities become two of them, there are agreements and there is a government decision. And in the autumn, these decisions will be added. So the administrative reform is already in progress in Estonia and those local leaders who want to develop Estonia are taking the lead all over the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Leaving aside the additional laws that you have promised and have not reached anywhere, at least not before us, my question is this. This very wide-ranging reform still creates things that cannot be foreseen and which require changes. You also referred to Paul Varul's opinion, who has stressed that the 5000-person criterion as the only criterion for accession is one-sided, and there are a number of other criticisms. What improvements or changes in the administrative reform law adopted in spring do you consider necessary? Are you planning on coming to Parliament with something like this and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U30	Thank you. First of all, I referred not to Paul Varul's opinion, but to Jüri Raidla's. Both gentlemen are respected lawyers and worked in the Ministry of Justice, but they are different people and have very different opinions on this matter. As regards the need to urgently improve the law adopted only a few months ago because nobody likes some of its details, this would not be a good example of legislation. I think that legal clarity in making such a major reform is very important. Moreover, I would argue that a clear numerical objective, which is objectively measurable, is a much better criterion than criteria based on considerations that are emotionally and more or less subjectively assessed. We discussed very thoroughly whether to set a specific numerical target. The latter, by the way, is due to the conclusion in the various analyses that very many functions can be performed more successfully if the municipality has at least 5 000 inhabitants. There are a lot of objective factors involved. For example, the proportion of money spent on maintaining the rural municipality's own management and support activities is drastically reduced if the municipality's size is at least 5 000 people, and this proportion is also reduced if the municipality has 10,000 • 11000 people, by the way. On the basis of all these arguments, we have decided that we do not want to go against soft decision-making, in which case the challenge would be even more likely, because there is always subjectivity when assessing whether these criteria are met. In this way, we have based our expertise on the ability of municipalities with more than 5 000 inhabitants to carry out their tasks more successfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U32	The next question is for Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Recently, a serious question concerning the people of Estonia has come to the agenda. It's medical funding. The fact that it is not possible to continue the current financing system started at least six years ago. When can changes be expected from the government to allow better funding for medicine so that the current long, even more than half a year, treatment queues are shortened and people get a doctor's appointment on time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U34	Thank you very much. I say, too, that the issue of the sustainability of healthcare funding has certainly not come to the table until recently. I have had these problems on the agenda for a long time and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian state have had them on the agenda for 10 years, if not longer. Analyses have been done around the same amount of time, both by our own experts and external experts, and in this sense the picture is quite clear. I am not here as a first-time discoverer that our healthcare financing system, based entirely on labour tax, is not sustainable. After all, the demographic situation is that the Estonian population is ageing and the number of people of working age is decreasing. People who pay taxes and maintain this system will be reduced, while those who need medical care will not be reduced. On the contrary, there are more people who need care for longer periods of time. Last year and this year, according to this observation and in accordance with the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, which also includes the analysis of health funding and the presentation of relevant proposals, a new picture of the state of affairs drawn up in cooperation with Estonian and foreign experts and submitted their proposals to the government. Their simple message is that more money is needed to ensure health care at the current level. In the coming years, the sickness fund's reserves will be sufficient to cover the needs, but more money will be needed in the future. If we want to improve the service, more money is needed. In the coming months, the Government of the Republic will hopefully discuss this in greater depth and will also reach decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U35	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I think that this government, as the Prime Minister confirmed a few minutes ago, will do things that previous governments have not done, even though this has been discussed for so long. The new system isn't invented. Now you can believe that the current government will do it. Here's the question. Simple things can be done, and I'm touching one of the moments a lot of people talk about, it's a duplication of samples and X-rays. Are there really no savings in this area by using internal reserves? Well, that would be easy, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U37	Thank you. Firstly, health care is one of these areas, as is education and others, where all people think that they are specialists because they have visited the doctor and heard something from others. I respect this system with great respect. It is a large and complex system that employs many wise and good people. However, things that seem simple at first glance and reasonable may not be the case for closer observation. If we look at how much Estonia spends on health care or how much our total health expenditure is in GDP, we will see that we are spending little and that we have still received a very good health care service. We have joint and several health insurance, which means that less wealthy people also receive high-quality health care. When we talk about the essential quality of this service, both patients and those responsible for the system are satisfied that we have competent specialists and the necessary equipment to provide world-class medical care. Of course, within the system it is still possible to find savings in terms of better management. I would argue that the necessary reforms have been carried out in due course throughout the period of independence and that almost the maximum efficiency has already been squeezed out. However, this can certainly be achieved by making smaller changes. As for the duplication of X-rays, if you talk to a doctor, you may hear that what seems like unnecessary duplication is not really there. The new picture may provide the doctor with much - needed additional information that he needs to make his decisions. Yes, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund, is looking for places where unnecessary spending can be reduced, but there are not many of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U38	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U39	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The Health Insurance Fund has a reserve of about 200 million euros and, as we know, social tax is quite well received. At the same time, 180,000 people are on the order of treatment. Is it normal for people to be kept in line for the sake of budgetary balance and for the money of the Health Insurance Fund to try to balance the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U40	Thank you. Treatment queues are another such problem, which at first glance seems simple, but it is actually complicated. The same number that you mentioned as a little bit into it, it turns out that the treatment queues have increased by about 10% over the year. Well, the people of Estonia have not gotten 10% sicker in a year; there are probably other reasons. For example, some people enroll in several hospitals at the same time, looking at where they can get an appointment more quickly. The fact that it has so far been possible to sign up to a specialist in Estonia in such a way that the referral letter from the family doctor is not yet available. Later, you go to a family doctor to ask for it, and it turns out that you do not really need a specialist visit. So we can argue about this number. At the same time, it is clear that there are treatment queues in Estonia; in bureaucratic terminology, its name is an uncovered need for treatment. It actually exists. Its financial capacity is estimated by the Health Insurance Fund to be around EUR 70 million and, of course, this issue needs to be resolved. We have solved this in two ways. One way is more strategic and a little longer, that is what has been said here in the Riigikogu Chamber. This concerns the strengthening of primary care. We are trying to reach a situation where fewer people need to go to a specialist, because the family doctor can solve most of the health problems on his own. To this end, we will strengthen the teams of family doctors by increasing their competence, broadening their service spectrum and financing the establishment of modern health centres from European Union funds so that all services can be provided better. On the other hand, integration of social services and health services is an important issue. Unfortunately, this is very few in Estonia, and especially in the case of older people, this is an important issue. We are piloting the local health model from next year, according to the example of Viljandi Hospital, in an effort to combine these different levels so that people can get the best possible service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U42	Question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U43	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Yesterday, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise introduced his annual activities in this Chamber and received the majority approval of the coalition and opposition ambassadors for both the content and the effective structure of his report. I hope that you, too, have been able to read it, or at least have been referred to you in the main points of this text. The members of the Free Party are concerned by the Chancellor of Justice's statement that Estonia is moving towards a society of command and prohibition rather than the expansion of everyone's freedoms. The Chancellor of Justice also often referred to the forthcoming overregulation. As Prime Minister, how do you comment on the views of the Chancellor of Justice and see yourself as the head of the government's duty and opportunity to face up to this bad tendency?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U44	Thank you. First of all, I'm very grateful to the Chancellor of Justice for that look. This is certainly necessary, and Parliament will probably be able to examine these views in detail. However, as far as overregulation is concerned, we have set a specific objective in the coalition agreement that overregulation must be avoided and the proportion of plans to be developed significantly increased in order not to come up with further legislative changes at all times. If we always look at the facts, it is wise to base our government on facts, we will see that both in 2015 and 2016, which are the years of the current government's office, the number of billings both initiated and approved by the Riigikogu has been lower than in previous years. For example, in 2012 and 2013 the Riigikogu passed 139 laws in both years, 187 laws in 2014 as a whole, but in 2015 this figure dropped significantly to two formations. In 2016, 69 laws have been adopted so far. You can see a clear downward trend. I have also come across the reproach that the submission of draft laws has, as if, been monopolised by the government. I have good news: the adoption of laws is still a monopoly of the Riigikogu; no one else can accept them in Estonia. Nor can the President simply veto them, according to his own discretion, even though some of the candidates may get that impression. If we look at the proportion of these drafts in the number of laws adopted for which the government has been the initiator, then this figure has also fallen. This means that more and more of these drafts have been adopted by the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U45	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U46	Thank you. I would like to take your word for it and continue the debate on'Monopoly of Law-making'. You will also understand well that this is not a formal issue. To school students, we all explain that the laws are passed by the Riigikogu. It's the attitude. As representatives of our opposition, we do sense that the current coalition does not demolish the wall between the coalition and the opposition, but builds it up again and again. The question is how the amendments made by the members of the Riigikogu are treated when the officials who drafted these proposals take seriously the attitude of the entire government. I'm sure you actually understand this delicate suggestion from the Chancellor of Justice to monopolise legislation. Do you have any plans to make a difference here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U47	Thank you. I feel the same way in Parliament with great respect and respect and in Parliament's work. The only reason here is not that my career in Parliament has been longer than in the government. I really believe that Estonia is a parliamentary republic and that the adoption of all laws falls solely and exclusively within the competence of Parliament. But let's look at the facts again. The laws adopted by the Riigikogu in 2012 and 2013 were initiated by the Government of the Republic in 76% of cases. We are looking at the same figures for the current membership: 63% of all adopted laws and decisions in 2015 and 69% so far in 2016. So, compared to the previous years, Parliament's own initiatives have increased very significantly, and this is far from being monopolised. Economics is more familiar with this situation under the name oligopoly. Now, from positive examples. If you look at Ülle Madise's presentation in detail, as well as this written report, which is quite substantial, we can see that he also gave a number of positive examples. One example is the regularisation of the collaborative economy, which has been a purely parliamentary initiative and where the government has tried to think and contribute. In my opinion, it is not only in Estonia, but also internationally a good example of how Parliament, on its own initiative, is doing something that others have not been able to do. However, examples of cooperation with regard to Parliament's initiatives are still, for example, the amendment of the Identity Documents Act. As you can see, in just 63% of cases last year, government-led drafts were adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U48	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The question is this: when will you bring the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act into line with the Constitution? This thing's been lingering for a long time. We have proposed an initiative here, but your party and your coalition will not allow it to pass. And the other side: in addition to the practical discrepancy with the Chancellor of Justice, you also have a philosophical difference of opinion. You spoke here about the fact that a numerical estimate is better than a blurry assessment criterion. The Chancellor of Justice said the exact opposite yesterday that officials sometimes fear the criterion of consideration, but this criterion is nevertheless very necessary, because the contrary, the reading of all the criteria for every case of life really leads to overregulation and also to inconsistencies in legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U50	Thank you. Well, we can argue which one is a better counselor, either facts or emotions and assessments. I have always considered facts important in my work and in my activities. If we look at the proportion of how much of all the laws adopted by the Riigikogu have been initiated by Parliament itself, this is clearly on the rise. How to judge it, let it be up to everyone, but the facts here point to a black white trend that proves that there's really no talk of monopolisation. On the contrary, the trend is the opposite. With regard to bringing the law you referred to into line with the Constitution, it was also discussed yesterday in the Cabinet. We agreed that in the near future we will come back to this issue once again, addressing precisely the part that the Chancellor of Justice has found necessary to resolve. Here you can argue for a long time whether a person can run a business and, at the same time, be unemployed, whether running a business is a job or a hobby. This is a very interesting philosophical argument. However, it must be acknowledged that the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out clear contradictions with the Constitution with the other provisions of this law, and this must be taken into account. Parliament has said that yes, the Chancellor of Justice must be accepted, and we do not object either, but we will find an opportunity to present these amendments, and hopefully Parliament will also accept them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U52	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. The question will be asked by Marika Tuus-Laul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U53	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! I can clear up a little bit in this hall. Chronic underfunding in healthcare began after Marko Pomerants in 2003 when he was a minister. So it's been stable for 13 years. For a long time this portfolio has been largely in the hands of the Reform Party: Maret Maripuu, Urmas Kruuse, Hanno Pevkur, Taavi Rõivas. That's right. And things haven't gotten better. Now, this spring we have put our hopes on you because you came out with a message that you are getting extra money and launching major debates in the government. You had very good concrete proposals, and we had a lot of people who approved them. We were really hoping that health care would get a little better. And you talked about it in the fall. Now suddenly, completely overnight, you said that there is still a lot to draw together in healthcare: with medical queues, with favorable medications, we limit overwork in hospitals, the visit fees have been changed for a long time, as well as the bed-day fee. Why the sudden change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U54	Thank you. Firstly, I certainly agree that the honourable President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, was a good Minister of Social Affairs. However, in answering your question, a distinction must be made between the problem of financing short-term and long-term healthcare. The issue of long-term financing relates in particular to our demographic situation and to some other issues specific to health care, such as rapid innovation and the resulting price increase. This concerns our long-term financial sustainability and has been analysed for a long time. During the summer, concrete proposals were put on the table of the Government of the Republic. One debate has been held. As I said, I hope that in the coming months we will also come to the necessary decisions. The truth is, as I said in answering Tarmo Tamm's question, that the Health Insurance Fund will have enough resources and reserves in the coming years to cover the need for health care. Therefore, the fear that the Health Insurance Fund will not have the money in the coming years to fulfil its obligations and provide people with medical care does not exist. As far as short-term financing is concerned, because health is a large system, its costs are very well projected. Otherwise, it would not be possible to manage the budget. But as always with forecasts that predict the behaviour of more than a million people in the big picture, mistakes may occur. So there was an error in forecasting the current budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The reasons were, for example, an outbreak of viral diseases in February, which was higher than expected, as well as the transfer of a number of patients with hepatitis C to a new highly effective but very expensive medicine. Consequently, the result of this year's budget implementation is negative. In this context, we have proposed a few minor measures that could make this minus smaller and at the same time do the things we have planned anyway. Let's just do it at a little faster pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U55	Marika Tuus-Song, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U56	Thank you. The situation is very acute and, at the same time, you certainly know that the current lack of money is part of the long-term lack of money. When we talk about planned treatment, its so-called capacity has decreased by 8% in two years. However, one in five people in Estonia are in the order of special medical care. What do you have on the agenda right now? And what can we do in the opposition? We've asked you a new question, we've presented them in the past about the medical rankings, we're gonna make a statement at the Central Party Council and we're gonna take it, but what are you gonna do? What do you say today to those health professionals who were forced to strike across Estonia yesterday? Do they have to come out again, or what do they have to do? We see that, as things stand, our health care is increasingly moving towards paid medical care, as well as harm as it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U57	Thank you. Member of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Marika Tuus-Laul! Members of the Committee on Social Affairs have been discussing this issue for very long hours with my involvement, looking at the data on the number of treatment cases and the number of patients served, etc. There is no reduction in the number of treatment events. For a long time, there has been a declining trend in the number of stationary days, which has been a reasonable course of health management. Instead, new treatments have come, especially in day care, but also in outpatient services. The volume of treatment has certainly not decreased in Estonia. It is true that this volume is inadequate, the treatment queues are a clear example of this, and it is also true that we have seen that many more people have turned to emergency departments in the first half of this year's overtime. One reason is that the scheduled treatment queues are long and people turn to emergency services in distress. It's all right. That is why we have proposed our proposals on how to resolve this issue. In addition, we are making quite a number of changes to the health arrangements concerning the strengthening of first-level assistance, which I have already talked about. As far as own contribution is concerned, Estonia has come very close to the target that we have set ourselves, which is 25%. At present, this figure is 22.23%. It is true that, in my view, an increase in the burden of holding is generally not an option. At the same time, participation in Estonia is quite unevenly distributed among different types of treatment, and WHO experts have long recommended that we harmonise it. That's what we're dealing with, and maybe in some places we're adjusting it up, and in some places we're adjusting down. But it certainly cannot be said that this is the solution to the whole question. However, the solution is to give health care extra money. I've been talking about this for a long time, so there's no reason to refer to a change of heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U58	Tarmo Tamm, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U59	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I'm sorry to have to take away the opportunity to ask my colleagues, but you didn't answer my previous question. The Health Insurance Fund has a reserve of approximately 200 million euros, with more social tax due. I ask why the state budget is kept in balance with the health fund's money. Before you didn't answer it, maybe now you'll answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U60	Thank you very much. I'm really sorry! Two minutes is too short a time to talk on such an extensive subject. But I've been telling you everything for hours. If there is any further discussion, I would be happy to respond to your questioning and to discuss the matter further. But the answer to your question is that the budgetary results of the health insurance fund, the unemployment fund, many other institutions and local authorities will be included in the calculation of the government's position. This is completely elementary, logical and understandable in itself. When putting together the state budget, or rather putting together the state budget strategy, account shall be taken of the results of which social security funds, including the sickness fund, will also end. This is, of course, the requirement of our own law, which the legislator has put in place, but this is also required by the regulations established on the basis of the rules of the European Union. In itself, it makes perfect sense for the state to look at this picture. It is true that, in addition to the minimum reserves of nearly EUR 100 million at the Health Insurance Fund, the sickness fund also has a non-distributed result from previous years. It is also true that this unallocated result has already been used for several years to cover the minus of the current year. That is also the case this year, and that will be the case next year. It is clear that, in the longer term, the healthcare system needs reform and additional money, as reserves do not last indefinitely. But in answer to your question, I once again assure you that the reduction in the amount of health care is not on the agenda and the sickness fund has the money to pay for medical care.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U62	Question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We are all more or less familiar with how we constantly increase Estonia's military capabilities through both our contributions and NATO support. But I have a completely different question. How are we prepared in the Republic of Estonia for the protection of Estonian citizens in the field of civil defence, both in material terms and in the sense of people's awareness? I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but as far as I know, there are no civil defense exercises in schools right now. I am a representative of the older generation, and in my youth, civil protection training was almost mandatory in school, not to mention companies and institutions. How are we prepared to protect the Estonian population in an emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U64	Thank you very much. Estonian defence is based on a broad-based approach to national defence, which means that defending the state does not only involve military defence, but must be prepared by every state institution and, in fact, the whole society. The most important foundation for the protection of the population is, of course, the common sense and education of people on defence issues. We promote education through military service and the Defence League, as well as through higher national defence courses and the training of national defence in schools. In addition, in December 2015, on the basis of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, we launched a task force on the protection of the population aimed at increasing the awareness and preparedness of the population for possible crisis situations, so that something could happen. I expect this task force, in particular, to draw up a concept for the protection of the population for the country, which includes the tasks and activities to be carried out in this regard. I also expect them to have a manual with instructions on how to behave in the event of a crisis. At the same time, I would stress that the fact that we are dealing with various risk scenarios, or the fact that the state as a whole is preparing for risk scenarios, does not mean that these risk scenarios are about to start. It is simply common sense to say that it must also be prepared for scenarios that are unlikely to materialise, but which can have a very devastating effect on society. So I'm sure you'll agree that these issues need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U65	Your point of clarification, Arno Bridge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U66	Mr. Prime Minister! So I'm going to ask you more specifically like this. A task force has been formed, and it has probably taken action. Is there funding for this in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U67	Thank you. Like other task forces, there is a budget to act on it. In addition, I would like to emphasise once again that the various activities relating to defence and defence, namely, in a wide range of areas, we have also provided resources for the administration of other ministries, not only within the administration of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior, which are so-called "traditionally ministries of security." I consider it very important that all members of the government and senior officials of all ministries take part personally in these exercises, which we have already carried out for the first time in Estonia's history on several levels of government. This is what we want in the next few times, because all areas, from health to culture and from rural to rural, have a certain impact on dealing with the crisis. Everyone should be involved. This, in my opinion, is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U68	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The Republic of Estonia is 25 years old. As I understand what you're saying here, you don't know much about this. When I asked you once in this very Chamber how you intend to protect our civilian population in the event of war, you gave me a very interesting answer. Your answer was medium-range anti-aircraft missiles. It's amazing! However, there are two high-ranking officers in your party who are competent in these matters. Why don't you ask the knowledgeable people how to protect Estonian women, children, old people during the war? That should be the prime minister's job number one. But as I understand it, you don't care about our civilian population at all. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U70	Thank you for that question. I understand the end of the question was quite rhetorical. I strongly doubt that if you've asked me about civil defense, I've answered you with a lecture on mid-earth air control. I don't think that's gonna make any sense to me. At the same time, I consider it my duty to recall that the Republic of Estonia is legally consistent and is not 25 years old, but very soon, on 24 February 2018, we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. Such very important facts should certainly be well understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U72	And now we're in a hurry. Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski answers two quick questions from Monika Haukanõmme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns your second area of responsibility alongside health care, i.e. the area of work. Minister Tsahkna came up last week with a rather innovative idea of raising the retirement age to 70. It is not a question of numbers, but of how we would be able to work longer and whether we have the necessary working conditions. One way to increase older people's employment is to offer them flexible forms of work, such as part-time work or smooth retirement. In Estonia, it is still relatively in its infancy. How can we increase the interest of entrepreneurs in employing older workers and what measures can be taken to raise this interest? What are the plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U74	Thank you! Firstly, as far as the analysis of pension reform is concerned, the Government of the Republic or, in fact, the ministries of the sector have been working on it for a very long time. The Social Security Reform Committee has been associated, and Margus Tsahkna and I belong to the Minister of Finance. This analysis has been very long and thorough, but I also received a somewhat unexpected message that we will raise the retirement age to 70. In fact, the main content of the Committee on Reform's analysis has been the idea that we could move towards a flexible retirement age. This was clearly supported by the Government of the Republic in the debate that took place last week. People could retire, move to a substitute income depending on their ability and desire to work. Some people want to be with their grandchildren, others want to work longer. It should be possible to choose more and retire smoothly, to which you referred. For example, if a person wishes to work part-time after working full-time for a while, he or she will receive half the pension. At some point, he decides he's done, then he's gonna get a full pension. In our analysis, we have focused in particular on the objective of increasing flexibility and making it easier for people to participate in employment. As regards employers' interest in older people, this is increasing mainly because the working age population in Estonia is declining and employers find it harder to find employees. So there are significantly more offers for older people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U75	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U76	My second question concerns lifelong learning. At the moment, both the unemployment fund and the Ministry of Education and Research are working on this, which means duplication at times, but maybe dissipation on the other hand. How is it planned to support the retraining of older people to be able to work in another field?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U77	Thank you very much. In this regard, first, certain activities are already ongoing. The Minister of Social Affairs was then in Taavi Rõiva when these topics were discussed, and now some things have also started, though not very much. The government only discussed and will discuss the new package prepared by the unemployment fund tomorrow, called'measures to prevent unemployment'. The unemployment fund would be training not only the unemployed but also the people who are currently working. One clear target group is older people, people over the age of 50, whose qualifications may have become obsolete, or their jobs are in a sector that is a disappearing sector in the Estonian economy. In this case, people can receive further education and retraining using unemployment fund money. They will also be able to apply for university of applied sciences or vocational training in order to renew their qualifications. Of course, this concept of lifelong learning also requires a change in people's thinking. A 50-year-old actually still has a quarter of his or her working life ahead of him, but we often experience employers' mentality that, well, these older people are about to retire anyway. Of course, people in Estonia will live longer, even healthier, and this will allow longer working lives. Participation in lifelong learning, including in-service training, is certainly essential. I can say that we in the Ministry of Social Affairs have paid very much attention to this, and the unemployment fund has prepared a training programme, one of its target groups being the elderly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U78	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski! Thank you, Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U79	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U80	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to turn 20 members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. This concerns the working group on housing associations' debts. In 2010, the Act amending the Law on district heating and social welfare was adopted, which made the situation a little easier for housing associations. It provided that heating could be interrupted from 1 October to 30 April if the heat company had sent a debit note to the building management company and 90 days had elapsed since that date, during which the consumer had not paid the debt. However, this change has not served its purpose. As you may know, there are now about 100 apartment buildings in debt across Estonia. In February of this year, it was decided at the government meeting that the Minister of Enterprise, Liisa Oviir, will set up a working group to analyse the possibilities of dealing with the debts of housing cooperatives and local governments, which will propose the necessary changes to resolve the problem. Unfortunately, so far, this task force has only met once. No proposals have been received by the government, and a hundred apartment buildings are standing across Estonia without heating. The fate of these people is in question, but they'll probably have a cold room waiting for them this winter. We have four questions for the Minister, we expect an oral answer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U81	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U82	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! It is a great honour for me to hand over the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance on behalf of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. There have been situations where people have been made redundant, but somehow the employer has not transferred the documents to the unemployment fund within the five days prescribed by law. We propose in the draft a correction that if, within five days, the employer has not taken the papers to the unemployment fund, the employee has the right to do so himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U83	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good folklore! Hello, good guests. Yesterday, the Chancellor of Justice said in his closing remarks that if we in this Chamber consider it necessary to help even one person, we could come up with a bill to amend the law. And this is the case today: solving one person's problem can help many people who are waiting to solve the same problem. At the beginning of August, Jüri Jaanson, Helmen Küti and Andres Metsoja and Minister Ossinovski visited the family doctor in Tõstamaa, Madis Veskimägi. We discovered that this is perhaps one of the most advanced family doctors in the world, working according to a European family doctor's model: the family doctor has such equipment that he is able to detect a diagnosis in quite a number of areas of specialised medical care and then decide whether to send the patient home with a happy message for pills or to ask the EMO car out and ask the man or woman to be taken to the surgeon's table immediately. This bill is not very substantial, it only concerns the addition of § 14 of the Health Services Organisation Act, but sometimes the devil may also hide in the details, and the removal of the devil from that section is what we intend to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U85	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U86	Ladies and gentlemen, The 16 members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on problems in public enterprises and public procurement issues. Several important cases in state companies show that the Government of the Republic does not have the will, competence or ability to manage the rational and caring use of taxpayers' money. On 24 May this year, the National Audit Office disclosed that the decision of the European Commission on Estonian Air would have been avoidable if the government had complied with the principles of the State Assets Act. A few months later, former Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts praised the government's decision that the Port of Tallinn will be the partner in securing the ferry. The former Minister considered the positive experience of the port in investing in an icebreaker and its financial capacity to be particularly important. However, the current situation is not in line with the long-standing Minister's description. There are also problems with contracts without public procurement, with a lot of money moving blindly through different ministries. Two years ago, the Minister of Finance drew the Minister of Justice's attention to the problem that the idea of the Public Procurement Act is essentially not followed. Inquiries have become suspicious that the country does not have a Prime Minister. That is why we have made an inquiry to the Prime Minister. We expect an answer to the question of whether or not the country has a prime minister, and we hope to hear how it plans to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U87	I hope that the two drafts and the two requests for information will meet the requirements of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are currently 87 members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U88	Agenda item 1 is the first reading of draft 234 of the Riigikogu decision "Publication of the materials of the VEB Foundation', submitted today by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. For the starters, waitress Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U89	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It's an ancient and evergreen subject. The problem of the money of Estonian banks and companies frozen in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union has been dealt with for many years. This issue has been examined by the Defence Police, the National Audit Office and the Committee of Research of the VEB Foundation of the Riigikogu, which was established in 2013. The tasks of the Commission were to determine the circumstances in which the VEB Fund was set up, the organisation of its work and the processing and settlement of claims brought together by the VEB Fund, to identify the infamous misrepresentation of the letter sent by Eesti Pank to the Russian Foreign Economy Bank in 1995 with the audit of Eesti Pank, to identify the losses caused by the activities of the VEB Fund to the state and private sector companies, to submit conclusions to the Riigikogu and the public. [[There's a really big buzz in the hall, the manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U90	I'm sorry, Henn Põllamaas! Thank you, Riigikogu! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U91	Thank you. By decision of the Riigikogu, the Committee of Inquiry was tasked with submitting the material to the competent investigative body in the event of a breach of law or any circumstances referring thereto. The main reason for the creation of the committee of inquiry was a forged letter from Eesti Pank, which came to the public during the audit, by which Eesti Pank proved that TSL International, a Russian resident company, had a bank-related claim of 32.3 million dollars in the Russian Foreign Economy Bank. In 1998, TSL International received a claim from the VEB bank in cash and in Russian government bonds on the basis of forged documents. Companies with real requirements, however, had to wipe their mouths clean. The person who took the money out of Kapo and also the VEB Foundation's Inquiry Committee has been informed, but I think the next one has been emphasised, perhaps dark, at least to the public. It is also evident that without Russian accomplices, the authorities and the FSB, such a financial fraud scheme would not have been possible. However, I do not want to dwell here on the activities of the persons involved in the VEB Fund affair and the Committee of Inquiry, because the story of money fraud is extremely complicated, and it is one of the major tangles of irregularities, omissions, counterfeiting and lies. A total of 49 persons were heard at meetings of the Commission. Their statements were recorded and recorded. For some reason, the members of the Commission decided that the recordings and other materials made during the work were not to be made public. This is said to be because, in that case, people will come and speak more frankly. Despite the promise of non-disclosure, however, many of those invited did not show up, such as one of the key players, Alexander Matt associated with TSL International. In addition, telling the truth in the Commission was perhaps not very common for everyone, but it was vulgarism and amnesia. Let it be said that the law obliges invited persons to come and cooperate with the Committee of Inquiry. The Office of the Riigikogu has consistently refused to disclose the work materials of the Committee of Inquiry, including recordings. Reference is made to the protection of personal data. The disclosure of the information on the record requires the consent of all parties concerned, as disclosure of the information adversely affects their rights. Therefore, even Vahur Kraft, whose signature was on the letter with falsified information to the Russian bank, and who is thus a direct accomplice to the affair, should be allowed to examine the materials. A number of persons, such as journalist Toomas Tenl, attorney-at-law Indrek Leppik, businessman Vambola Kolbakov, liquidator of the VEB Fund Rein Järveill and others, have been granted permission to make the recordings of these conversations public. According to Toomas Tenl, however, those heard in the Commission have not even had access to their own statements. The recordings of the VEB Fund have also been sought by other journalists, but the Chancellery considers that the press is able to obtain information about the subject in a less damaging way, using the websites of Eesti Pank, the National Audit Office and the Riigikogu, etc. It is clear that these sources are under no circumstances sufficient. However, if you look at what is behind these personal data, what they mean, on the basis of which the publication and release of material has been refused, I do not see at all that any personal data is contained in these materials. Personal data shall be deemed to include, in particular, all data relating to an identified or identifiable natural person, which reflect the physical, psychological, physiological, economic, cultural or social characteristics, relationships and belongings of the person. Delicate personal data are, according to law, data that describe the person's religious, political and world-view beliefs, ethnic and racial affiliation, health status, disability, heredity-related information, union membership and sexual activity. There is nothing like this in the Commission of Inquiry's material, and it is absolutely groundless to impose restrictions on access under the personal data protection label. Did the Commission ask people about their sexual orientation and health? I don't think so. According to the Registry, partial access restrictions apply under the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. However, the situation should be the opposite given the legitimate interest of the public. The Money Laundering Act is designed to prevent illegal and dim activities from being secret and to undermine confidence in the functioning of the state and the financial system. One of the reasons why VEB Fund materials have been refused to be disclosed has been the reference to information containing state secrets contained in materials, for example, which reflect the conversation with Siim Kallas. He himself has told the press that there is nothing like this in there, and even if it were a state secret, the Committee of Inquiry will be able to separate the part of the state secret from the records and allow the rest to be heard. The restrictions on disclosure can only touch a few details, there is no need to classify all material. Confidential data can always be deleted; this must not prevent disclosure. Similarly, the reasons for imposing restrictions may fall away for some other reason, which may be the legitimate interest of the public, the emergence of information through other sources or any other circumstance. The reasons for the classification of these materials are clearly sought and inadequate. However, it has gone so far as to claim to national broadcasting that the recordings have been destroyed. It is not true unless it has been done recently. According to Viljar Peebu, Head of the Data Protection Inspectorate, the desire of the public sector to impose long-term restrictions on access to documents is largely stupid, lazy and sloppy. However, comfort and workload must not be decisive in setting access limits. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise also stated in his speech yesterday that Estonia seems to be moving towards a command and ban society. However, society is weakening, and the disillusioned are growing more and more because of any new ban. This also concerns the prohibition of disclosure. The cover of state secrets has become too easy to use in Estonia, thus preventing the truth from coming out on issues of great public interest. The material of the VEB Fund did not reach the criminal investigation because of years of concealment in Eesti Pank and because the kapo did not respond to the suspicion of a crime when one of the creditors of the VEB Fund reported the existence of a forged letter. During the 25 years of Estonia's independence, we have seen a variety of shameful political parties and their members, as well as different attitudes and activities in dealing with specific problems, depending on whether they are coalition or opposition. The coalition has also tried to sweep this subject under the carpet. If, in 2004, when the topic of auditing the VEB Fund was up in this very hall, the Riigikogu had given the National Audit Office the task of auditing the VEB Fund, the police would have been able to start criminal proceedings, then the errors detected later had not yet expired. However, this was not done. The same parties who voted last week in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs against the disclosure of the documents of the Committee on Inquiry of the VEB Fund were opposed to auditing. The disclosure of the Commission's recordings and other investigative material is important because the case has the characteristics of the crime and has caused financial and reputational damage both to the state and to companies. Let us not forget that there is also a risk that the country will have to compensate for the damage caused to the creditors of the fund. A number of companies have turned to the European Court of Human Rights in this case and the claim is EUR 300 million. At first, their lawyer was not asked to disclose the relevant information, but it was done on the basis of the public interest. So everything can be made public if you want to. A letter sent to the Committee of Inquiry stating the names of the person or persons who received or took $20 million shall be classified for a period of 50 years. The Committee of Inquiry, headed by Rainer Vakraga, applied for the declassification of this letter to both the Defence Police and the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. The replies from both institutions were negative. I really don't understand why the names of criminals or suspects are hidden. What social benefits could this bring? The secrecy of the recordings of the committee of inquiry and the letter of the Defence Police Department erodes society's trust in the state institutions and deepens the mistrust of whether honest justice and the establishment of truth are possible in Estonia. It is elementary that any doubts that arise in the country's life must be resolved and resolved to the end. The first person in charge of this is this hall, perhaps your esteemed ambassadors! If there are questions about certain things among the people or in this Chamber, then we need to find answers to them, not put it down and be classified. This is important for the reputation of the Riigikogu, the credibility of the representatives of the state and the coherence of society. The public wants answers to questions about the VEB Fund. It has been about 20 years since the events, and therefore the disclosure of information does not undermine Estonia's security in any way. The disclosure of the recordings is undoubtedly of little importance in connection with the current presidential elections, as the presidential candidate, the then Governor of Eesti Pank and Siim Kallas, who allegedly no longer remembers or knows many things, are also directly involved in the VEB Fund. Auditor General Alar Karis and Auditor General Tarmo Olgo have stated that memory is a serious problem for many people who are involved with the VEB Fund and who can shed light on the scheme. In addition, a number of documents have been lost from both Eesti Pank and elsewhere, including audits carried out at the National Audit Office's VEB Fund. The recently published book by Toomas Tenl on the VEB Foundation's affair lists the person who took the money: Igor Kostikov from the investment company AVK. Kostikov has been in high state offices in Russia and has been involved with FSB. This is a clue which leads us to the actual background of the VEB Fund transactions initiated by Eesti Pank's scam and to where and who received the money. Sadly, the Ten says that he, as a journalist, is shorthanded. Let's extend these hands! The idea of classified the tapes and other materials of the VEB Foundation's Inquiry Committee was lost by bringing this information and many other data to the public by Tenl. It is likely that the recordings may also contain information which was not considered relevant in the final report, but which, together with the new information, would shed additional light on this affair. It was counterfeiting, fraud, theft, concealment and corruption, in other words, a blatant and vicious crime. But no one can be called a criminal, because no one has been convicted of this crime and probably not understood, although every working-age resident in Estonia was harmed by 900 kroons. Although these things are now out of date, the perpetrators of this affair must be brought to light only so that such persons cannot continue to sit in high places and stand for even higher positions, such as the President, by taking an honest face. Both they and their accomplices must be put to shame so that such people do not have feelings of impunity and that such things cannot be repeated again. It must also be borne in mind that the hidden people of Russia with the veil of secrecy have been silent for some reason, and that requires easily blackmailableness. This poses a direct security risk to Estonia and is an extremely serious and worrying aspect of the whole case. Unjustified secrecy undermines society's trust in the institutions of state representatives. It does not fit in with the principle of democracy and openness. The crisis of confidence and the gap between people and those in power is already clearly striking. However, this loss of trust can be compensated by disclosure of information and honesty, by revealing the truth. Otherwise, it is not surprising to say that the entire state's roof is corrupt, that the government and the Riigikogu are contributing to the concealment activities by which the authors and money miners of the forgeries of Eesti Pank and the VEB Fund have hoped to escape responsibility. I hope that the Riigikogu will decide to prove that this is not the case by disclosing the documents of the Committee of Inquiry. The need to protect individuals' privacy and personal data in such a serious case does not outweigh the public interest and societal benefits. The Commission was still set up with the aim of clarifying the financial machinations and forgeries that were kept secret by Eesti Pank. Then why would these materials be hidden from the public? Moreover, secrecy on a legal basis or on a false basis is a misdemeanor. By the way, until 2015, it was a crime, now it's a misdemeanor. For whose sake? If anyone has nothing to hide from the light, why not accept the lifting of access restrictions? This can be done by the Riigikogu in its decision. That can be done by you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U92	Questions for a waitress from the initiators. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when this issue was discussed. There was no representative of the initiators, but even without him, the argument became very fierce and long. I will say immediately that I support this draft decision. You were just talking about these factors, these arguments why these materials should be disclosed. Can you tell me why you think anyone could vote against this decision? What arguments may there be as to why people do not support this draft decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U94	Thank you for your question. We have already heard these arguments. None of them are competent. What I have pointed out here, which is the reference to sensitive personal data presented by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, is not true, it is not true. It is also argued that the Commission promised not to disclose. It was hoped that people would come in, speak more frankly. That's not true, either. We know that part didn't show up and part of the vassal and still lied. Since the law obliges people to come and cooperate with the Committee of Inquiry, there really is no basis for making any such promises. Why doesn't it really agree to be made public? Well, the reason is that the threads lead to quite a lot of people. Many of the people in our society who were then in high places are still in high places. Thomas Tenl, in his study, has pointed out what is being hidden from us: who was the specific taker of the money, the recipient where the money went. Now we need to look into it further. We have leads to find out where the money has gone, who it was finally distributed between. But it is probably precisely because these persons do not come out so that they do not come out to whom the money came in, how it was used, many do not support disclosure. In fact, Estonian society supports, Estonian society has a legitimate and justified public interest in it. It has remained very sharp for years and neither the government, the Riigikogu nor the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has any right to hide these recordings and other materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U95	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U96	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! In your report, you mentioned a number of specific people who have given statements and agree that their statements will be made public to everyone. Is it not a strange situation where, on the one hand, there are people who want everything to be transparent and their statements to be available to the public, but on the other hand they still do not? Does this not conflict with the principles of a democratic state, one of which is transparency?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U97	Thank you. Indeed, it goes completely against the principles of democratic state and openness. Secrecy can only be considered in certain specific cases, if there is a real reason for it. Just because someone promises something to somebody, that we're quietly pushing it down, it's not a legitimate justification for secrecy and access restrictions. It doesn't apply. And if we still want to be, not just say that we are a democratic state, a rule of law, then we must follow these principles and act on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U98	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr Henn. A very serious, voluminous report, and you said some serious words about a crime that didn't turn into a crime. But my question concerns the question of faith. It is often emphasised in this Chamber that believe me. Eesti Pank is trustworthy among the Estonian people, but counterfeits were committed there too. How, then, can we believe what is said? And how much faith must be, and how much documentary proof do we need in life?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U100	Thank you. This case proves that we must not be blue-eyed, we must not be gullible. It's been a completely amazing sequence of lies, vassis and forgeries that have come true. This in itself proves that these things need to be dealt with, these things need to be brought to light, otherwise nothing will change in this society, otherwise it will be possible to make such schemes, cheat, lie, steal. This has got to end. Today, we all have the opportunity to contribute a little to this by disclosing all the materials. The final report has indeed reached the statements of most of the persons questioned or interviewed, but these are only a few sentences, a few passages, individual fragments, which do not give a complete picture of everything they said. In addition, important information has come in the meantime, and if this is taken into account with their parents' data, perhaps new perspectives for the truth will be opened up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U101	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U102	Thank you. I have two questions, I'm trying to fit them within the time frame. One question you have already touched on, and that is that all members of the Riigikogu are actually able to examine this material and find out the names and the events that have taken place there. But what happens if I go to the newspaper office with the information I'm gonna find out about it? Is it stopped? Actually, the information is there. In practical terms, this restriction needs to be removed so that we cannot be punished when we talk about these things. Isn't that right? Maybe you'll be more specific. Secondly, we have come forward with this because it also concerns the politicians currently in action. We are in the middle of some elections, and this also concerns the candidates currently nominated. Whatever the way today's first vote is going, this decision will not be able to enter into force until the presidential elections, or at least before the elections in Estonia, but it would actually be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U103	Yes, of course we can go as members of the Riigikogu and listen to these recordings, read these materials, but it will be of little use if I cannot even tell my colleague about this. If I leak anything to the press, of course we'll know who came to see and who leaked and we'll be punished. But to be punished for the truth, forgive me, it's absurd. We must eliminate this situation, these things must be made public, whether the press finds something new or not. Take, for example, the case of companies that brought the case before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Their lawyer was finally granted access, and the reason was precisely in the public interest. So, in fact, there are no obstacles to publicising these things. But indeed, if we follow this VEB Foundation saga, we will see that there are a great many people who have been directly or indirectly affected by it, who were in high positions at that time and could have influenced the process in one direction or another, who were at the time, for example, when these audits of the National Audit Office went missing, in office at the National Audit Office or who were ministers at that time. Of course, all these things must be highlighted and made public. And if there is one presidential candidate directly involved in this affair, then there is no doubt that we must also talk about it, and it is not possible to think about it differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U104	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, I'm sorry if I go a little too far with my question. You don't have to answer when it's really over. However, I am thrilled by this aspect: in European literature on democracy, administration and archives, there is a strong view that the proportion of classified or restricted public access information in any country is inversely related to the democratic state of society. I mean, secrecy is a measure of undemocraticism. Estonia has been laughed at many times. Do you remember the case when Estonia was once trying to classify the official missions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a longer period than the largest state secrets of the Scandinavian countries? Maybe Europe is a little lost in this, maybe it is not an indicator of democracy. Or maybe Estonia is different, maybe we are a democratic country, but we just had a difficult childhood? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U106	Yes, our childhood was really difficult, and our geopolitical location and current political trends in the world naturally affect us in the most direct way. Since we are at the forefront, we must make sure that our truly confidential information is not leaking. We have some very sad experiences with this. But that doesn't mean that we can become a hysterical society of prohibitions, commands and secrecy, where even completely elementary information is declared secret, the stamp "for institutional use" or "Perfectly secret" or whatever. It's not normal anymore. It is already very much detracted from normal European democratic practice. The political parties of power want to take the example of Europe in all kinds of things, and I refer here to gay law, and to whatever, but I think it would be much more justified and proper to set an example, namely the behaviour and real openness of a normal society. As the honourable questioner pointed out, the more languages, commands and secrets, the less democracy there is in the country. I believe that our common goal is for Estonia to be a truly democratic state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U107	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I know that Toomas Tenl has done good work on the final report of the VEB Foundation Inquiry Committee and has written his book on this basis. However, I have a very specific question for you as the author of this draft decision. Have you yourself used your right of ambassador and listened to these recordings and studied other work material? If you haven't listened to those records containing hundreds of hours of talks, can you at least, with your hands on your heart, confirm that you read this 400-page final report before you brought this bill into this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U109	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, I have not been listening to these tens or hundreds of hours of tapes, for that there must be, first, much time and, second, determination and purpose to discover something. To do this as an outsider, I have not been able to do so in this committee. I've read the final report, but I have to admit, not very deeply and very thoroughly, but still enough to get some insight into it. And I find, despite everything, that my identity and listening to these recordings by me are of no importance at all. The public interest and publicity that journalists, the people involved and many others have wanted is important. If anyone wants to hear from the recording, exactly what was said at the seventh minute of the nineteenth hour, I think he must have a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U110	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U111	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! As a result of everything related to the VEB Fund, AS A.O.Imbie also went bankrupt. Indrek Leppik, attorney-at-law at this company, Glimstedt, can't get to know these materials either. What may be the reason that even a representative of a bankrupt company cannot get to know the materials? What is the inherent reason for this secrecy? Why would it be classified? I don't understand! I certainly don't want to hear these recordings, because I don't understand anything anyway. But what is the inherent reason that such material is classified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U112	Thank you. I have tried to answer this question, but it is indeed a question to which I do not have an answer. I understand that there may be something in these materials that is confidential as far as state secrets are concerned. It doesn't have to be published, these places can be covered, they can be erased, whatever. But it doesn't justify the secrecy of the rest of the material. The rest of the material must be public. Perhaps those who have so far done so and wish to continue with secrecy are the most accurate reasons for refusing to disclose it. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U113	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I note in a reply that in the 1960's, I think the Moscow Bulgakov novel Master and Margarita was printed. I read it as a French edition for the first time on xeroprindi, where the text promised by the censorship was in normal writing, and in italics what the censorship did not allow in the Soviet Union. Then I realized I didn't want to read anything that was censored, and that's my right. It's like cooking without salt, it's impossible to eat, you don't understand anything. But here's the question. We are trying to follow the example of our neighbours, Finland and Sweden. Do you think, in an affair where everyone understands what has happened, it would be possible for these countries to be classified as we have in Estonia in the case of the VEB Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U115	Thank you. That's a very good question. This puts our country and society in comparison with other democratic countries whose democracy has lasted longer than we have because of their history. And indeed, I am quite sure that secrecy of such things would not be possible in other democratic countries. We see and hear all the time how some sort of scandal explodes, how something comes out, and how it goes to the end, so that those who are politicians, businessmen, heads of state offices, whoever they are, bear specific responsibility for their actions and omissions. In Estonia, we see no responsibility whatsoever, neither political nor economic. EUR 32.3 million has disappeared. This equals the top-up of four years that Estonia could give to its farmers if we supported them. It's a huge amount of money that we can offer our kids free food, anything. That money's gone, and nobody cares. That's not normal! Of course, things like this are gonna have to be naked, to be taken public to the last cent. Everything should be made public, done what is within the power of our investigative bodies and now ours. If we still want to talk about democracy and compare ourselves with other democratic countries, it is our direct responsibility. Remember, in Sweden, a minister who accidentally bought pantyhose using his work card once resigned. He paid them out of his pocket later, but he still had to give up. We don't have tens of lost millions of people in charge of anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U116	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'd like to generalise a little bit. We all know that there is now a debate on which materials reflecting the work of the committees should be stored at the level of the committees, how much secrecy or destruction could be maintained. The question, however, is: what can be done against the mentality of this general secrecy in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, where it is advised not to retain the recordings of the committees and to fight against the disclosure of the recordings of the VEB Foundation's investigative committee? Where do you start and what do you do to get this thing going?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U118	Thank you. I'd say the fish is starting to rot in the head. Indeed, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has had to respond to requests for disclosure, but the Registry has not established or decided on this procedure. They carry out the task assigned to them. So while the names of the office staff run through these refusals, it is actually quite inappropriate to blame them. The parties in power and their members, members of the Riigikogu, who, for some reason, support secrecy and have raised their hands on it, who disagree with the abolition of restrictions on access, who have advocated that the records of the committees be destroyed so that they are not archived, so that the verbatim records are not made, so that only protocols remain that will not provide the necessary in-depth information for a serious historical investigation. Full records of committee meetings, the archiving of which would not require any additional costs, would provide in-depth information. I think all of this depends on the conscience and head of the members of the Riigikogu itself. Do we want to have an honest and open society? Do we want citizens not to accuse us of corruption or concealing it? Do we want to be honest and justify our hopes? It is in our own hands: we must act, we must work openly and we must work honestly. And if there's nothing dark to hide, if no one has any sins in their hearts, if we're not involved in these affairs and thefts, then I don't see the slightest reason why anyone should be opposed to losing these access restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U119	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U120	Thank you! Good waitress! You very often use the words 'classified', 'classified', etc. There are several stages of secrecy. What classification has been applied to this report or to individual documents as a whole? And the second part of the question is that you spoke of punishment, but I ask you why you might be punished. Can you enlighten us a little bit about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U121	Unlike you, I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not trying to invade such nuances. I am still speaking in a language that we all understand and which ordinary people understand. Yes, of course there are different levels of secrecy, but this is not relevant in the current context. The restrictions on access to the data are not a secret, it is set on the working documents, on the recordings made during the hearing of persons, as well as on the written material. The final report is public, but the final report does not deal with all this material. And we know very well that if we disclose materials that are subject to restrictions on access, which are for official use, it is a punishable act in accordance with Estonian law. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U122	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U123	Thank you. Here's the question. Because of this restriction on access, there are all kinds of speculations that can be made, people can be cast into the shadows. The charges are still in the air because no one can confirm them or disprove them. Is it not also in the interests of those who have been cast into a bad shadow? Then once upon a time it would become clear who was and who wasn't involved in certain things. After all, those people who have been cast into hiding should also be in favour of disclosure, unless they have something to hide. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U124	There are now two things that can be distinguished: the talk that the person said in the committee, and whether the talk he said in the committee of inquiry is true. If a person did not cooperate with the Committee of Inquiry when he could no longer remember anything when he was suddenly hit by amnesia, which in principle can hit anyone at any moment and in every job, he may, of course, agree that his statements will be made public. But it doesn't bring the truth to light. However, it reduces any speculation about what it then told the Commission whether there was something in this story that is not true. Whether the speculations that have spread in the public about his sayings and what he did are justified would be known. So, of course, any person who was heard in that committee should want these things to be made public. I have read to you the names of a number of people who have asked for the disclosure of materials who agree that their statements will be made public. Unfortunately, it has not been done. I was talking about the reasons, they're not true. But in any case, it is in the interests of the people involved, the people in this Chamber and the whole society that it is in the interests of the people involved, the people in this Chamber and to avoid any misinformation spreading and speculation, and, of course, to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U125	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Mr Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U126	Hello, good Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The meeting of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on this issue took place last week on Tuesday 13 September. As has already been mentioned, there was no committee meeting where this draft was discussed, the initiator's representative from both the Commission and the political group. Nevertheless, we had an interesting and lively debate with both political and legal content, which can be taken forward with this draft and what legal prospects if it were to be approved. I will then introduce you to the course of this debate. The Commission's advisor presented the history of the draft. It was submitted on 3 May and provides for the lifting of restrictions on access to the documents of the VEB Fund's Committee of Inquiry. This committee was set up, as you all know, to examine the circumstances in which the VEB Fund's claims are dealt with and met. The work produced a wide range of materials, which were gathered in the report and presented to the public for inspection. The committee held a number of hearings, and the persons invited by the committee were informed that, as the meetings of the Riigikogu committee are closed, their statements would not be disclosed literally. The Commission's meetings were recorded and the purpose of the draft is to lift the restrictions on access to the recordings so that the public can access existing information. The councillor explained that the recordings do exist, but first they are covered by the principle of the closed nature of the sittings, which follows from § 36 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. While the VEB Foundation commission was working, it was not yet certain whether the principle of adherence was held in court, but there is now a Supreme Court ruling on 11 May 2015 in which the court states that the sittings of the Riigikogu committees are generally closed and only by a majority of the committee's votes can the sitting be declared public. The Court held that this principle does not apply only to the possibility of attending a sitting, given that it is justified to base itself on the general principle that the deliberations, speeches and other documents, including recordings, of a closed sitting are not, in general, publicizable. In the view of the Court, such a restriction has the legitimate objective of ensuring free debate. § 1581 (1) and (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides that although documents drawn up or submitted to the Riigikogu and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu are public, documents are not disclosed in the cases provided for by law. In accordance with the amendments to the Home and Working Procedures Act, which entered into force on 13 May of this year, draft documents and supporting materials used for their preparation, as well as materials prepared for discussion and consultation, shall not be regarded as documents. In addition to the principle of the closed nature of the meetings, it should be noted that the VEB Foundation Board has heard, analysed, consulted with those heard, and imposed restrictions on access to material on the basis of clauses 35 (1) (12) to (15) and (19) of the Public Information Act, state secrets and classified external information law, and § 43 (1) of the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. The introduction of restrictions on access is mandatory for the holder of information pursuant to § 35 (1) of the Public Information Act. If disclosure of information would undermine the privacy of a person, the restriction on access to information is imposed on the basis of subsection 35 (1) (12) of the Public Information Act. The councillor added that according to the principle of the hierarchy of legislation, individual acts at a lower level must comply with general legislation, in this case the law, and hence the principle of the retention of sittings laid down in § 36 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. As the restriction on access is imposed under the law, this draft Decision would run counter to the laws obliging public authorities to impose restrictions on access to information or to recognise information as a state secret. The decision of the Riigikogu cannot change the law. At our meeting, this review was followed by an exchange of views between the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, one of the objectives of which was to debate whether this decision could change the previous principles laid down by law at all. For example, the question arose as to what promises can one or another committee of inquiry give to the persons to be heard in the future if, by law, the information they share, which does not directly concern the specific investigation, can be disclosed. Certain promises may undermine the authority of future committees. Member of the Commission Jüri Adams pointed out that there were legal and political problems on this issue. Firstly, there is no understanding of what the Riigikogu is and what is the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and how the body serving the Riigikogu does not disclose the materials created during the work of the Riigikogu. There was also an argument that the Riigikogu could not take a political decision that it wanted to abolish access restrictions, and that the decisions of the Riigikogu do not have to be consistent with decisions taken by other state institutions based on different motives. Mart Nutt, a member of the Riigikogu, spoke in a number of speeches on issues such as the principles of state secrecy, the general principles of state secrecy, their functioning in the rule of law, why they are so long and why this principle is based on the fact that, if a matter has already been recognised as state secrecy, the removal of this restriction must, above all, be decided by the creator of a specific state secret. Several members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also asked me questions because I had the honour of being a member of the Committee on Inquiry of the VEB Fund. Unfortunately, however, I did not participate in this work until the end, as I took up ministerial duties in spring 2014. I would say that this is all in summary from the debate. We also made procedural decisions. The chairman of the committee proposed that 234 be referred to first reading by 20 September, i.e. yesterday. But as you know, part of yesterday's agenda moved to today. It was proposed that the Commission be appointed rapporteur here and that the members of the Commission agreed with the consensus. The chairman of the committee proposed that the draft 234 be rejected. Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Kristjan Kõljalg, Andre Sepp, Anneli Ott, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits and Jüri Adams voted against and abstained from Kalle Muuli. I think that everything has now been said about procedural decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U127	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. This draft is very focused on recordings and their full disclosure. The previous waitress, the initiators' waitress, said that she would not become involved in legal and nuances about the different levels of state secret. But still, there's a public interest here. Was the Commission also discussing some sort of intermediate option to make verbatim reports of those invited to the meeting who are prepared to disclose what they have said? Perhaps some level of classification could be reduced or the whole section of this material covered by state secrets and some other part separated by mass? At the moment, it still looks like the right mediocre result if we simply reject this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U129	Thank you. Perhaps these questions should have been asked a few years ago, then we agreed on these details. What can I say now? Well, it was a consensual decision taken at the time of the Commission's first sitting that the Commission was following the principle of the law that the meetings were closed. At the same time, as I read the same summary, I dare say that all that the Committee of Inquiry considered necessary is stated in this summary and in the reviews of people's statements. The part that was left out concerned the state of health of one person or another at some point in time and, for example, the alcohol problem of some of the persons heard. That's what came out in the poll. During the Commission's discussions, it was discussed that we must, of course, perceive the overall smell of 20 years ago, but it does not have any value in terms of carrying out the Commission's research. At the same time, it may affect people personally, and some of the footage material was left out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U130	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U131	Mr. Anvelt! You are an infinitely more experienced person in this field than I am. My question arises from the fact that if some texts and papers are created during the work of the Riigikogu, they will eventually reach the archives. But the intermediate situation seems to be that, with some periodicity or under some circumstances, they move to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I understand that this could legally mean that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu provides the Riigikogu with a so-called temporary document-keeping service. At the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, some papers are also born that are not directly relevant to the work of the Riigikogu, but which also somehow reach the archives. Is it possible that the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu or any other official will say that the documents transferred to our Riigikogu will no longer be returned to you if, for any reason, we wish to get them back?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U132	Thank you. Good George, I think you have a much greater experience of parliamentary work than I do. But what can I say? I have been studying a little over these days how these things are possible if we want to listen to these recordings or see any other Commission document. There are no problems with its committee, but this is the work of the previous Commission. According to my information, this is one major deficit in the work of the office, because this procedure does not exist directly, which would state how a member of the Riigikogu would have a free mandate in carrying out his work, and such a desire is perfectly normal to get acquainted with the so-called AK documents of another committee. It's kind of forgotten. In the old days, this was the case, then had to be asked by the chairman of a particular committee. However, in this case, this procedure would not work because the Commission has long ceased to exist. In general, we are in a state of sadness. For example, in order to examine any other commission's AK document, we must go to the board of the honourable Riigikogu, who will discuss the matter at his meeting and perhaps give us this right. This is, in my opinion, a highly bureaucratic and unsuccessful solution. I think the Chancellery of the Riigikogu must definitely change that order.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U133	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U134	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we heard Mr Rait Maruste's question: why can't we talk about these things, why we don't go and read these materials, do not go and demand them out? Now we have the answer from Mr Anvelt. It's very viciously put in place: we can talk, but we get a criminal charge, we can't run again next time, and we're out of politics. So the only thing that really matters to a politician is that you may end your political career if you talk too much. The solution would be disclosure. What's the point with the VEB Fund? The point with the VEB Fund is that it is a real sin of Estonian politics. This is a much more serious subject than $10 million. This is essentially the beginnings of the Reform Party in Estonian politics. It has now developed into a group of criminal associates who have spread their grips or transfers not only in politics, not only in the public sector but also in the private sector, and built up circular defence and circular guarantees over the years. If we ask why the kapo has classified one or another material or why the DA's office doesn't initiate it, the other or the third, the answer is there. It runs back to that time and to the sums and their agreements, to the criminal cases relating to the VEB Fund. Perhaps some limitation periods have passed, no one can be punished anymore, but we still need to make public: names, faces, dates, times, who took out the money, who passed it on to whom, where the money moved, among other things, at whose expense. It was the money of Estonian entrepreneurs, which was essentially stolen. Everything needs to be made up of wood and red. It is a highly complex scheme, but it can be understood. We do not think that everything should remain silent and allow these people to move forward peacefully, yes, these people are still moving forward, they have not all retired or died. And when we talk about the presidential election, that is what this is about. I repeat that those people who have been cast into hiding should be most interested in clearing things up and making them public, whether they have been cleansed or confirmed by doubt. People whose names are on the unfair list of suspects should fight to reveal their nails and teeth. Somehow we see that they do not do what indirectly confirms their guilt. I call on all my fellow Members to support disclosure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U135	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U136	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Having now examined the draft decision of the Riigikogu, I am pleased to comment on this as a representative of the social democrats. However, having been the chairman of the VEB Fund commission, I do need to clarify something. Today, some questions have been thrown up in this Chamber and no specific answers have been received. First of all, this idea, the idea that all data should be disclosed, is correct. I fully understand the position of EKRE in a sense, in a way, a parallel with the starting phrase of "Spring" that by the time Arno and his father arrived at school, the classes had already begun. The VEB Fund was exactly the same: when EKRE arrived at the Riigikogu, the lessons had actually started. Half an hour for the incoming person to recapture the facts and go over everything. We also recall the members of the Commission at the time: current Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants of IRL, Andres Anvelt of the Social Democratic Party, Väino Linde of the Reform Party, Rainer Vakra of the Party, Aivar Riisalu of the Centre Party, his alternate was Heimar Lenk. With consensus, it was unanimously decided that we would not make it a public forum broadcast. At that time, an analogy was made with one example of the Committee on the Environment that, when a discussion on the banning of fur animals is started, a vigilante comes, takes pride in his fur coat, but realizes that he is live and listened to, speaks selflessly for 15 minutes, when a beautiful animal is a squirrel and that he should not really be hunted. In order to avoid this situation, we did indeed decide at the time that the work of this committee would be closed. I agree with both the Free Party and Andres Anvelt that, in the future, we can indeed take the example of Britain, where the work of such committees of inquiry is public. We must take into account that some people, perhaps also members of the Commission, are also using this platform to get as much media attention as possible. But it's only one piece of thought and a cornerstone. On the other hand, at the time the Riigikogu decided to set up this committee, the aim was to take down all questions and all tensions. In reality, all 101 members of the Riigikogu are able to listen to these tapes. If you feel that this is too much on your own, make a deal with your benchmate, your party partner, and share the months, listen in part. And then you have the basis to talk about whether there's anything really hidden or not. In fact, we shouldn't speculate here on the remote that there are some tapes full of very interesting information, and maybe there's something suspicious. Don't speculate! Take one week off, take these tapes out and listen to them from start to finish! And when you find out that we've left something important unwritten in the summary, come back here and tell me what didn't happen. I have read Mr. Tenli's book, and I commend it. His book is based on original texts. His book is based on the audit of the National Audit Office and the final report of the Riigikogu on the VEB Foundation. On the contrary, it cannot be said that the so-called basic document, the source document, is more incomplete than the book written on the basis of it. It just doesn't make any sense. If you produce research and write to the source of your work, the original documents will be more extensive than the brief summary you have made. The book is more beautiful and reader-friendly, as the previous waitress said: less legal. Less legal terms have been used, but the content is still based on the final report of the Riigikogu's VEB Foundation Research Committee. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U137	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U138	So I have a very sincere and friendly suggestion: interrogate those tapes that have an interest, and then wonder if there is any reason to speculate or not. Let us not spread speculation and horror stories in this board and in the press. A colleague here, asking and giving examples of democracy in relation to our situation in the rest of the world, has no reason to fuel passion here. I would also like to comment on a question that Mr Anvelt, our Member of the Commission and the rapporteur from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, did not answer. I have, indeed, written twice to the Defence Police and also to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, that there is only one piece of classified paper. You have access to all the other materials, you can all listen to these recordings. However, this one paper, too, did not contain anything that I believe could not have been made public. It was also a particular reason why I repeatedly wrote to both the Defense Police and the Ministry of the Interior about this, offering that it would be reasonable to publish this paper because there is nothing classified there. If there were such interesting information, as it has been in the exciting speculations of the greatest fairy tales here, it would have been known a long time ago. Believe me, this letter has been read by over ten people, as far as I know. If there were such a list as some people would have in their darkest dreams or imagined in their fairy tales, it would have come out in Estonian society a long time ago. There are no names there, no facts that have not been included in the Tenth Book or in our final report. And this whole issue was raised by Aivar Riisalu, a member of the previous Riigikogu and a member of the VEB Foundation Committee, who said at our last press conference that the truth will be revealed when the Defence Police discloses their documents. It is precisely because of this sentence that interest in this subject is so amplified. His words have been interpreted a thousand times differently. If he hadn't said that sentence, we wouldn't be discussing this issue here today. It's just there's no reason to dissect the subject anymore. Unfortunately, this liturgical and fairytale sentence will probably remain for the rest of his life, at least 50 years, on Aivar Riisalu's personal conscience. Why did he do it, and why did he throw it in the air with a pretty smiley face in his mind, humorous, humorous? I guess he didn't figure it out himself back then either. Unfortunately, this is ultimately a fact that we will be discussing for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, I'm asking you if the EKRE proposal to remove the access limit is perhaps an open door break-in. On the Commission, you said that everything was actually in the book of Thomas Ten, except for kapo's letter 01476UL. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U140	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the commission is to reject the draft 234 at first reading and I will put it to the vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Today's first item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! You were once at the VEB Foundation Research Committee and in the Tallinn Port Corruption Investigation Committee, we had the honour of being together. The port investigation committee also had to break the ice when meeting people to get them to talk more. Yet all these materials, which are just as sensitive as the VEB Fund's, are actually public. Everything that's recorded will be heard if anyone wants it. What is the important difference now that the material of the VEB Foundation Committee of Inquiry must be classified, but not the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U142	Thank you. This is also the legal approach. As I noted earlier, the law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu is clear and now it has also found judicial confirmation, which are documents and which are not. We have improved that law in the spring of this year. It all depends on how the Commission agrees. May God forgive the opposition, but that was the opposition's dominant committee at the time, I was just watching, three out of five members of the Commission were the opposition. Let us remember that there was a so-called Alliance of Democrats in the previous Riigikogu. People who left the Centre Party also got a member of the Commission, even though they did not form a political group. There were three representatives of the opposition and two representatives of the coalition, so there was even an advantage of the opposition. When I went to that committee, I was also a representative of the opposition. And then, if I am not mistaken, at the first session, a consensual agreement was made that we would act in the form of closed sittings. Now it's hard to assess afterwards, it was the right or the wrong decision. I think I should have made the same decision as Artur Talvik, in the case of the Port of Tallinn. He remembers it better, but I think we have taken a consensual decision in this committee that everyone is public, and we have also warned the people to be heard accordingly. That is the simple difference: the composition of the Commission made one decision on the basis of the law at the time; in the case of the port, it was essentially decided, in accordance with the second provision of the same law, that the Commission could declare its work public if it so wished. Then they did it the other way around. It's that simple, there's nothing complicated about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U143	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! Your answer to the last question, as it turns out, is that laws are an obstacle, but in the meantime, it seemed that the data concerning people were obstructing. Do you not feel that when it comes to crimes, it is clear that the things that have been committed concern people? From this point of view, nothing should be classified; known information should be made public so that people cannot live comfortably using secrecy, hoping that people are clean and do nothing forbidden. Or do you have any other thoughts to add?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U145	It's really hard for me to add something to this line of thought right now, but I'm trying to interpret it somehow. The point is that the Riigikogu Committee of Investigation does not carry out criminal proceedings. Yeah, there's a rule in criminal proceedings that if this goes to court, it's all public. At the time, the committee of inquiry was governed by the law that the sittings were closed, and that law is still in force. After all, our day-to-day meetings of committees are also closed unless we decide ourselves that we will have a public hearing. This is due to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Secondly, it should be noted that, although the sittings were closed, the summary drawn up from them is public. This thick book that appeared contains everything that was said in the Commission. As far as the protection of persons is concerned, I do not think you have noticed, but I have emphasised that according to the Public Information Act, these recordings, which, by the way, are not documents adopted by us under the law, have not been issued because they contain information that does not directly affect the Commission's work. As I said, they also reflect someone's state of health, addiction problems, changes in someone's personal life, for example, that before living with one person, after having lived with another person, etc. These are personal issues that are not directly relevant. The committee of inquiry will read all these matters, and if the members of the committee find that some information adds a nuance that is relevant to the investigation, they will take this into account. All in all, as a former member of this Commission, it is difficult for me to see some very deep conspiracy in all this in order to protect one person or another. I think some people actually got themselves a stamp on their forehead when they tried to file false documents with the Commission. Yes, these things are out of date, but as we can see, this is still going with those involved, and here we are discussing this box today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U146	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U147	Mr Anvelt, I am going to ask my second question as a certain construction, perhaps it will be easier. We are both members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs right now. Suppose the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs comes from somewhere side by side with a document of whatever its content is, and no matter how it came. And now we consider it necessary to decide with the membership of who is present that we are imposing a restriction on access to it. The question is who would ever be justified to change that decision. I imagine that it is generally the case that the substantive decisions of the committees are changed by the Riigikogu by its vote in the course of some procedure. The committee decides, for example, that we exclude this draft from the procedure, but the Riigikogu thinks differently. How does this mental scheme fit in with the current problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U148	It's a legally interesting construction. Let us start by saying that the easiest thing is, if we create a document in the Commission, then we decide that this part of it is completely public, and that part is for professional use of the AK. In general, however, the winnings of our committees are, of course, largely public. The documents that come in to us provide their input into the documents we are creating, and they may acquire some new value in our debate, so they may no longer be intended for professional use. You're free to go! For example, if a ministry sends us an opinion on something that should give us a certain base to make a decision, we will make our decision based on that opinion and this document will no longer be for professional use. As far as further processing of documents is concerned, the law is above all of us. According to the Public Information Act, restrictions have been imposed. For example, in the case of the AK documents held by the VEB Fund committee, the restriction lasts for five years and may then be extended for another five years and then is essentially all. I am currently indebted to see how this would go directly to the Riigikogu, but I think that the holder of the information at another state institution will decide whether the document is future AK or not. At the same time, the requirements arising from the Public Information Act must also be complied with. If the material contains personal data and is specific, talks about a person's health status, or follows from other legal provisions of the AK, it cannot be disclosed. In this case, the Riigikogu's Office of the Riigikogu was subject to the Public Information Act, which I have here in good time, namely § 35 (1) (19), which notes the other information contained in the Act. This is where we come to the same law, which is the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which actually declares these documents to be AK if we have not decided otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U149	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U150	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Following the example of an experienced colleague, I will start with flattery. Even before your political career, you had outstanding experience in assessing whether people's statements were true or false. You have now participated in meetings of committees of inquiry, which have been open and have been closed. Did this obsession help to obtain more detailed and frank statements? Do you consider it fundamentally worth declaring the work of such committees closed in the future? Does it have practical value?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U151	My personal opinion... I have been on three committees: first, the committee that investigated the granting of residence permits, then the VEB Foundation Commission and now the Tallinn Port Research Committee. I dare say that the work of the parliamentary committees should be public. I think it would affect the person who comes there to testify even more to tell the truth. If the hearing is public, then the public will know everything immediately, for example through the media, and the media may be checking what they say faster than we have the opportunity. Maybe when you talk to some people, it is decided that we will do this sitting in camera, because it really concerns someone's private life. But in general, I think that in the future, I think, unfortunately, these committees of inquiry must be formed, there are still things that happen in the country to be public and only in certain specific cases to be closed. When you talk to a person about something, no one always wonders whether the information will remain confidential or not. So I don't see any difference here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U153	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let's get down to business. On September 17, two years ago, Hardo Aasmäe said that the millions of VEB Foundation took out a leading reform party. The 10th book says that this person was Mr. Aleksandr Kostikov. You've been reading this classified letter at 01476UL for half a century. My question is: is Mr Kostikov a leading reform party? Secondly, which of the leading reform parties was next to him for 20 million withdrawals? Thirdly, perhaps one of the leading Reform Party members appeared at the time under Mr. Kostikov's name?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U154	It's getting exciting. I haven't gotten to that chapter in the Ten Books, so I don't know how to comment on it. You're asking if it was written or not, and here I have to exercise my right to refuse statements. Otherwise, in time, either during the criminal investigation or after the criminal investigation, I will have to waive my mandate because I will be found guilty of declaring state secrets. So I can't even say it. I guess it's the kind of game you're gonna ask if the information was in the file. Uh-huh! But was it? Oh, it wasn't. It wasn't, it wasn't, and then maybe you'll get what might have been there. So, good colleague Peter, I owe you an answer, but when I get to that chapter in Toomas Tenl's book, I'll tell you if it was in that book and what it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U155	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Artur Talvik, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U156	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party came to the Estonian political sky with a very clear aim to change political culture. And the major aim of changing political culture was above all to change the society of commands and prohibitions, or to minimize orders and refuse to minimize secrecy in our society, to make Estonian politics as transparent as possible. That is why the Free Party supports the draft decision taken by the EKRE, which is also important for us. As far as transparency is concerned, Erkki Raasuke, on the Tallinn Port Research Committee, was asked to examine how state companies operate in the Nordic countries and how they differ from our own, gave a single example. He said that the only way to improve the governance of public enterprises was to make it more transparent. Transparency is therefore a major objective. It can also be said, precisely, about preventing corruption and general political governance, that transparency will improve this. If you come to the committees of inquiry, a draft is coming up in the Free Party Group, the approval of which could change the nature of the committees of inquiry. One principle is, however, that committees of inquiry may a priori be public. And if, in the course of these processes, anything concerning state secrets or sensitive personal data is discussed, the sessions will be held in camera. Let us look at the United States Senate Committee of Inquiry and take the latest cases, such as the scandal that has touched on us by Hillary Clinton. Imagine what the consequences would have been if the Senate's committee of inquiry had conducted its inquiries behind closed doors! Therefore, we are in favour of the disclosure of the VEB Fund's material, but as the previous speaker has said, a number of frog eyes have emerged during the process which prevent this disclosure. These frog eyes are very much related to the Riigikogu's domestic and operational rules and other laws. There's always some sort of legal justification in the back pocket for not being able to disclose one thing or another. That, in my opinion, is basically wrong. Once again, the Free Party Group supports the draft decision taken by the EKRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U157	Thank you. Martin Helme of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U158	I dare say it is. I haven't finished reading this book of Toomas Tenl. That's what they say, on the nightstand, when you read documents all day long, unfortunately in the evening you can read two or three pages, and sleep takes over. Not just for this book, of course. But I'm going to move on quietly. What I'm trying to say is that really, the writer has done some serious work. I myself helped Thomas Ten to write this book, and in his time his thoughts were changed. This book is at the forefront of the book, I have never seen you take a paper book before, read the QR code on it with a smartphone, and immediately go to photocopies of various materials that are available either on the website of the Riigikogu or Eesti Pank or somewhere else. Yes, it certainly contains, as I dare the writer to say, links that are a little arbitrary and may be derived from the belief that one or the other thing might have been that way. But in general, this book is a literary approach to the work of the Committee of Inquiry. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U159	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U160	We will proceed to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Civil Service initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U161	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President of the meeting. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on Tuesday 13 September. In addition to the members of the Commission, Monika Tappo, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, had also been invited to the debate on this item. In short, the purpose of the draft law is to supplement the Civil Service Act with a new section on decisions applicable to officials performing official duties in connection with the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The first reading of the draft was already held at the spring session, namely 8 June. The deadline for submitting amendments was 1 p.m. on 22 June. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline. The Ministry of Justice has tabled proposals to amend the bill. They are all technical in nature and are due to Brexit, in connection with which the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union has moved six months earlier, i.e. it will start on 1 July 2017. The proposals of the Ministry of Justice have been drafted into one amendment, as they are linked. They are intended to amend the deadlines in the draft, as at the beginning it was based on the assumption that Estonia will become President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2018. The initiators were also asked some questions. First of all, Commissioner Jüri Adams asked whether the Commission had consulted the Committee on Social Affairs when discussing the draft, as the subject of additional leave falls within the remit of the Committee on Social Affairs. This question could not be answered by a representative of the initiators, but the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laane, replied by saying that such a question did not arise in the Commission and therefore there was no reason or reason to address the Committee on Social Affairs. Member of the Commission Mart Nutt asked whether bringing the Presidency forward could cause problems for Estonia, for example, that it would not be ready with all the preparations. Advisor to the Ministry of Justice said that he could respond to this in accordance with ATS, or the Civil Service Act. The regulations laid down in the draft should ensure the functioning of the Presidency. If these changes are made and enter into force on the basis of previous proposals, it will be possible for the HR managers to recruit people associated with the Presidency, pay extra fees, etc. Certainly, bringing the Presidency up early will cause more tension, and officials will have to bring themselves up to speed. However, in the opinion of the representative of the initiators in general, as well as the members of the committee, the earlier introduction of the Presidency does not lead to insurmountable problems for Estonia. All members of the committee had been present in favour of the amendment. It was approved by consensus. I also read the names: by Kalle Laanet, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Anvelt, Peeter Ernits, Kalle Muuli, Jüri Adams, Lauri Luik and Andre Sepp. The chairman of the committee proposed to refer the draft to second reading by 21 September, i.e. today, and to conclude the second reading. Nine people were in favour of this proposal, and no one opposed it. The abstention was one member of the Commission, Jüri Adams. The committee chairman also proposed that the draft be sent to third reading if the second reading should be completed, and this third reading, in the Commission's view, could have been carried out on 28 September inclusive. This proposal was agreed by the Commission in a consensual manner. So, there is one amendment to the draft, which is tabled by the committee and awaits the decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U162	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. An amendment to the draft has been tabled, the author of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and which has been decided to be fully taken into account. No further amendments were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 240. The second reading is closed and today's second item is under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U163	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft Act 256 amending the Labour Working Conditions Act, the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and the Employment Contracts Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce the draft law 256 initiated by the Government of the Republic, which transposes Directive 2014/67/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council into Estonian law. The deadline for transposition of the Directive was 18 June inclusive. Thus, Estonia is a little late in transposing it and, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, I apologise for the fact that the draft has reached the Riigikogu proceedings later than planned. As of September, 13 Member States of the European Union have transposed the directive, so we are not the very last in this process. The Directive concerns the rights, obligations and related national regulations of posted workers. The law itself has been in force for a long time; now, in accordance with the agreement of the European Union, some of its provisions are intended to be clarified in accordance with a common desire. And now some of the most important changes that we want to transpose into Estonian law with this draft. Firstly, with this draft, we will change the scope of the current law. In the future, the law will not apply to workers coming from third countries, such as workers posted from Ukraine, but only to persons coming from the European Union. It is stipulated that the employer of the posted worker and the person who ordered the service from him or the person with whom the posted worker works in Estonia agree on who is responsible for meeting the requirements of the two health and safety regulations. If no agreement has been concluded, the customer or the person with whom the posted worker works in Estonia is responsible for complying with the requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act. Under current law, the contracting authority or the person with whom the posted worker is employed is not able to agree and is responsible. In order to facilitate national supervision, the person who ordered the service from the employer of the posted worker or the persons with whom the posted worker works in Estonia is obliged to provide the employer of the posted worker to the Labour Inspectorate. The current law does not provide for such an obligation, which means that our country has a more limited view of this area, these people and their employers. And now the most important provision of this bill. At the moment, if, for example, an employee is posted here from Poland, he will do his job here and the employer registered in Poland will not pay him his salary, he will be able to claim it from his Polish employer in a Polish court. If he or she does not receive the money there, for example, the employer has already been liquidated, the person will be deprived of any charge. In accordance with the specification of the Directive, this draft contains a provision governing the procedure in the area of one particular service, which is construction in a broad sense, but in particular the construction, repair, maintenance, conversion and demolition of buildings. From now on, if the employer does not pay the salary of the posted worker, the employee has the right to claim the remuneration of the person who ordered the service, i.e. the company he is working with, up to a minimum of one month. This is the case if he is his real employer, the same Polish company tried to obtain remuneration, and a judgment has been handed down in Poland which cannot be enforced. Then this person can try to get the money through the court in Estonia. Under current law, an employee has the right to apply only to the employer. The procedures for cross-border notification and recovery of a financial administrative measure shall also be laid down. The competent authority is the Labour Inspectorate, which will carry out further work in this field. No cross-border notification of financial management measures is foreseen so far. Finally, these are minor changes to the European regulation concerning posted workers. On the one hand, they are certainly worker-friendly, on the other hand, allowing countries to monitor better. The broader debate on the regulation of posted workers within the European Union is very active and intensive. This concerns a fundamental dispute where, on the one hand, Estonia and other countries have an interest in providing services across borders. On the other hand, of course, countries should have the opportunity to check that national social guarantees extend to all working people and that social dumping, as it is called, is minimal. The aim is to prevent all the forms of unfair business that we are seeing in Europe today: the regulation on posted workers is being used to guarantee poorer social guarantees for their workers by formally sending them from another country. In these cases, the tax revenue will also remain in the country from which the workers are posted. However, discussions on the directive on posted workers are still ongoing at European level and it can be predicted that there will be a thorough revision of this regulation in the coming years. At this point, however, please let us make this one small change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U165	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U166	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Am I right to understand that some third country has a brigade, 20 people, coming to Estonia, and during the season they are doing some work in an area where we do not have the necessary specialists? From here in Estonia, payment will be transferred to the third country, the company that sent them here. They will return to their homeland after the company has ceased to exist, and then they will have the right to be paid by the same Estonian company for this month's work, for example. This means that the Estonian company will practically pay twice. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U167	Yeah, basically, that's the point. Let us take an example. Most workers are posted to Estonia from Poland. From Poland, for example, the construction brigade comes here to build a house that the Estonian company has ordered from a Polish company. The Polish company doesn't hire staff from here, it sends out its brigade from Poland. People do their job here, the Estonian company pays the Polish company a fee and the Polish company pays its employees. The point of the amendment is, indeed, that if the Polish employer has been wound up by then, i.e. unable or unwilling to pay out the salaries, and it is not possible to obtain the money through the Polish court, then it is possible to come and collect the money from the company that ordered it through our legal system. But, of course, it is unlikely that there will be a lot of these cases in practice. It is a beautiful complex procedure and a requirement is placed on the ceiling: it can be up to the minimum monthly wage. When it comes to why this idea has been taken into account in the directive, the idea is actually to motivate contracting authorities to better check the background of businesses in other countries and to conclude contracts with them, which also include guarantees for the payment of employees' salaries. This will prevent unfair competition. We've had cases where the business model is built on the idea that we send our employees to another country, they do their job there, but we don't pay them. That's the point of the change. At first glance, it seems strange that the company has ordered the job and paid for it, but then there are more requirements to pay the salary, but the purpose of the change is preventive. The Estonian customer should better check the background of the other company and conclude their contracts in such a way that the risk in question has been mitigated. These risks can, by the way, also be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U168	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I ask why it has to be that the contracting authority is responsible for fulfilling the conditions of safety and health at work. The Confederation of Employers has also paid attention to this. This bill devotes a lot of attention to construction, but the scope of the law is not only construction, it covers a wide range of other areas. Let me give you an example. I'm the manager of an industrial plant and I'm ordering equipment from Germany, and that's where the technicians from the German plant come along and put it up here, working here. How can I be responsible that these German technicians won't hurt themselves if they set up a machine here? It's a practical example, I've been in the role of a client like that myself. Why is it even that the contracting authority is responsible for fulfilling the conditions of safety and health at work? It is also within the current law, but the Confederation of Employers says that this bill will further increase this responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U170	Firstly, under the current law, in any event, the person with whom the posted worker is employed is liable. The new law, one can say, alleviates this: it is possible to agree which of them is responsible, whether the dispatcher or the one with whom the work is carried out. It's a matter of agreement, agreement. Why, however, is this principle in regulation from the outset? The reason is still the same issue of worker protection. On-site employers, or subscribers, in any case, are better guided by the health and safety requirements that apply in the country, so it is more likely that they will also be able to meet them. Employers coming from other countries pay less attention to this in practice, and thus the safety of work is also less guaranteed. In the event of this amendment, it is possible for the contracting authority to sign the contract that the person who provides the service is specifically responsible for safety and health at work. As such, the law becomes more "subscriber friendly." On the other hand, it is still clear who shares this responsibility. Estonia has so far been more a dispatcher than a recipient of posted workers, and so our companies have also been convinced that the administrative burden required by the other country to which they are sending their employees to get to know the regulations of these countries, be it occupational health care, employment contract laws, tax laws, etc., is extremely difficult and annoying. The purpose of this regulation on posted workers is to promote the provision of cross-border services in the European Union. This implies that the obligations imposed by the legislation are reasonably enforceable. In the past, it has been found that their execution should be ensured by the contracting authority in the country of destination, the employer who orders subcontracting. This amendment can also be agreed in other ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U171	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, it is quite long and interesting to note how the procedure for the registration of workers posted to Estonia has been analysed in the same way and in the opposite direction, in order to clarify what the most effective procedure could be. Do you think that the solution currently found is short-term or long-term and how do you think this registration should go at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U173	I have not read this explanatory statement for a long time, but as far as I can remember, there is really hope that there will be a European register of posted workers where they are all registered. At the moment, every country is presenting these people somewhere, and then we find out through these countries that we have had some people working here. It's actually pretty incomprehensible. If there is a specific European labour mobility regulation, it is elementary that this includes a register that allows countries to get a full picture. It's allowed, but so far it's not. Things take a long time in Europe. As far as registration in Estonia is concerned, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, our first preference was that it could take place in the Tax and Customs Board's register of work, which is the easiest available to our employers and employees. It's understandable, good record. But there was a concern that since those workers who have been posted here are not taxable persons in Estonia and pay their taxes in another country, they are not, by their very nature, suitable for the register of work in Estonia, because there are people who should pay taxes in Estonia. The Tax Administration has wished to keep the register of its work as simple as possible, so that this agreement with the tax administration was not concluded with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U174	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U175	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, the directive had to be in force more than three months ago, and now it is going to take some time. Why is it at least four months late? And there are 50 proposals for a single labour market and for the organisation of the business landscape. Can you tell me what these important proposals are? It appears from the explanatory memorandum that there are differences between countries in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U176	I guess this political assessment of the difference between the East and the West is also due to the attitudes expressed by my colleagues from other countries, particularly the Nordic countries, who have clearly defined it that way. When we look at the broader picture of foreign policy, we see that there is nothing to say about the old East-Western Europe gap that we have hoped to overcome, in recent years, has started to grow again in relation to various issues. I think it is bad for the Estonian people that it has started to grow. In general, Estonia has behaved significantly more responsibly and rationally in the last few years than any of our fellow fates, which I consider to be good. All the more so, all kinds of compartmentalisations for the east and west are poor from the Estonian point of view, but unfortunately in many other countries this is what it looks like. As far as regulation at EU level is concerned, cross-border movement, be it labour, goods or services, is, in any case, an essential issue for the European Union. The proposals made by the European Commission on the regulation of posted workers can and can be rejected. Of course, there are also economic reasons why we should or should not support one or the other position. But to say that these questions are not a matter for the European Union, I do not believe that they are essentially competent. The European Commission, which assessed this protest in the framework of the yellow card procedure and considered that this was not justified, has again come up with an identical communication. So, in my opinion, this is not, in itself, an argument with which these discussions can be prevented in any way. However, it makes sense for us to find an argumentable medium between the proposals put forward and the Government of the Republic has tried to do so. I think that it could be in Estonia's interests, both from the point of view of the labour market and from a foreign policy point of view, to deal more broadly with certain issues of the directive, but of course we must at the same time bear in mind the interests and problems of our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U177	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a presentation by Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U178	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this topic at its meeting on 12 September. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Mariliis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Peep Peterson, Chairman of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation's Confederation, and Ago Tuuling, Chairman of the Management Board of the Central Association of Employees (TALO). The Minister of Health and Labour gave the Commission an overview of the draft Act 256 amending the Labour Working Conditions Act, the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and the Employment Contracts Act. The draft directive transposes the European Union Directive on the improvement of the working conditions of workers posted to Estonia in relation to the provision of services. The views of the Central Organisation of Trade Unions of Staff, or TALO, were then presented and further questions were put on this subject. The trade union representative and the members of the Commission also asked various questions and we also received good answers to most of the questions. Now I have a request for you. As little as you guys are here, read this bill! For the first time in five years, I'm gonna say this. The directives are nice things. I am expressing my personal position now, not the Commission's position, but please read it and wonder whether we are ready to impose such obligations on our contracting authorities, on the main contractors and also on subcontractors. A lot depends on what level somebody's not paying money. And is the construction sector the only sector that is very bad and bad? Let me just give you a few examples. In the construction sector, the average figure is that the cost of work is 30.35%, but in the case of demolition works it can reach 96%. Suppose an Estonian company orders demolition work and pays all the money for them. If a salary is not paid in another country, in six months' time it may happen that all of this will be recovered from the Estonian customer. Believe me, all of us, Estonian citizens, we can be the subscribers. The contracting authority may be a state, may be a private person or a private company. That's why I suggest you read this bill carefully. However, the Commission also made decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments and to appoint a speaker before you as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U179	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 256. Sorry, I forgot the negotiations. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No, it's not. Therefore, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 256. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 256 amendments, including 5 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you, see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4:34 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U180	Thank you. I honestly didn't understand exactly what 50 proposals you were talking about. That statement's pretty thick. Could you elaborate on your question, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U181	Please, mike!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U182	This is from the point of view of the European Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U183	Thank you. However, I did not get a precise reference, but I assume that these are proposals at European Union level on the issue of the working conditions of posted workers in general. This amendment to the directive, which has entered into force and which this draft will transpose into the law of our country, is the minimum of what has been agreed. Discussions continue, very tense. There are really great differences between countries, and in a large picture they are divided between Eastern and Western European countries. Those countries that have more postings, companies from these countries, including Estonian companies, are protesting against excessive harmonisation of social guarantees. Governments and companies in those countries that accept posted workers from other countries are trying to protect their social model and would therefore like to impose additional restrictions on the social package for posted workers. I cannot tell you how long these discussions and discussions on proposals will continue, perhaps when some more comprehensive package will be reached. As has been said, the political differences between countries are very large, but we are talking, among other things, about wage conditions, holiday arrangements, the length of postings. The length of missions is currently not regulated. In general, we imagine posted work to be a month or two, but it could also be a year or two, and then it is already a question of whether it is the posting of workers or ordinary residents who work in that country. So there are quite a lot of these discussions, and they really are polarising, because they hit the core of the European Union's functioning. On the one hand, the free movement of services is a common objective. This also means that there are no artificial barriers to the movement of services. On the other hand, countries are, of course, entitled to shape their'social model', their labour law and other regulations according to their own procedures and political desire. Finding a compromise between these two objectives has not proved to be overly simple. As we know, the Riigikogu started the so-called yellow card procedure in this area at the beginning of the summer, which concerns wider discussions. Well, they're still going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U184	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. How do such schemes work? At the beginning, you said that 13 countries have transposed this directive. Is it necessary that all the countries of the European Union plus Switzerland take over so that it becomes effective? If not, how does it work if it is not taken over in one country and in another and if there is a problem somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U186	The deadline for transposition was 18 June. By then, Member States had to transpose the Directive into their national law. The Directive itself is not directly applicable. This means that if these standards have not been transposed into national law, they will not be in force in that country. To date, 13 countries have transposed this Directive: Denmark, Germany, Ireland, France, Italy, Latvia, Malta, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Slovakia, Finland and the United Kingdom. So, in most large countries, it has been taken over. It has been taken over in two of our neighbouring countries and has also been taken over in Poland, which are the main countries from which we are being posted. One important country that has also transposed the directive is Germany, where there are also a large number of people who have been posted to Estonia. In those countries where this regulation has not yet been transposed, the requirements of this directive do not apply. However, the functioning of the European Union is structured in such a way that the European Commission initiates infringement proceedings against countries that do not transpose the directive in time. Finally, it can also go to the European Court of Justice. Since quite a few countries are still missing here, I believe that we will be able to transpose it into Estonian law before the European Commission takes action.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U187	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U188	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When we talk about working time, minimum wage or rest time in connection with this law, it is as if everything is clear. If, by this law, we oblige the Labour Inspectorate to deal with a collective agreement and, as has been said, on a large scale, then I honestly do not understand. Some collectives who work in Estonia today do not have a collective agreement. They don't even have it. Is there anything you can do to explain this to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U189	I didn't quite understand the question. The framework for the amendments to this draft before you is very, very narrow. As has been said, we are taking out third-country workers, only European Union workers remain. We specify the responsibility for safety and health at work between the dispatcher and the recipient. We really place the obligation to register workers on the Labour Inspectorate and extend the rights of the Labour Inspectorate to deal with these workers and their employers across borders. We are talking about the construction sector in a broader sense. A person working in the construction sector will be entitled to claim a minimum salary from the contracting authority if the employer who posted him does not pay it to him. That's all that's on the table right now. It is true that other discussions that are taking place in the background are also talking about collective agreements and their implementation, whether the minimum wage should be set at the level of a company's collective agreement or sector's collective agreement or at the level of the state's minimum wage. There is also talk of harmonising holiday regulations, etc. But this is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U190	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-21_U191	Thank you. Dear Minister, I heard one of your sentences before, where you divided those countries that participated in this yellow card procedure in the spring, and Estonia was among them, the East and the West. I think it's a somewhat unfair compartment. Rather, it is a division between countries that think that dealing with 0.7% of EU workers could remain at national level and not have to resolve all issues across the Union, and who do not. Indeed, there is a small number of people involved here, especially given the situation we currently have in Europe. Now my question: do you think that the European Union needs a common labour law or a common labour law policy, or is it up to the Member States in particular to decide what kind of labour policy they have?
