ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the second working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft radiation law. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in processing the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the State Assets Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of State Administration Arto Aas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U3	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry into the situation in Kohtla-Järve. You have probably heard what has happened there: at least three apartment buildings have been shut down from the heating system because the buildings have debts from the previous season. But most landlords have paid their bills properly and have no debts. As the supplier contracts directly with the building management company, as long as not all debts are covered, he will not turn the heating on. Families with young children also live in the house. I've seen it myself, for example, in a situation where the heating is off from the apartment, right now there's an electric radiator or some other thing that heats up a little room, but the rest of the apartment is totally cold, there's a minus temperature. Radiators have already burst and this whole system should be replaced, these houses are uninhabitable at all. Therefore, the members of the Centre Party Group have questions for the Prime Minister. We're afraid that with the electrical system overloaded, the worst thing could happen. We think the government should behave a little differently. We are therefore going to ask some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U5	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U6	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I have another question for the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. General contractions and redundancies have resulted in the following situation: Since 2011, statistics have been collected and it has been apparent that there were 2 500-3000 such children in 2011 (7.1-17. (until the age of 18) of whom the state knew nothing. It means four schoolloads of kids were somewhere, but where, nobody knew that. Children who are not listed anywhere are in Estonia. That is why I have some questions for the Minister. How many children in Estonia do not comply with school obligations? What are the main reasons why children have not reached school? How does the Ministry of Education and Research address this problem? Has the situation improved since 2011? How many of those children who do not reach school have the state identified and found and how many of them will not be found? Which department in the Ministry of Education and Research is directly responsible for finding children who do not fulfil their school obligations? Who deals with the families of these children? How many people work in this department, and what is their salary? In anticipation of Jürgen Ligi's possible response to the local government's task of looking for children, I say it doesn't. To this end, there are national structures that are looking for and registering these children. The State Department will have to write down if the children move to another country. But there are simply no social workers, no youth police, etc. I hope that my questions will be answered sensibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U7	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I will re-submit to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act in order to end the conflict identified by the Chancellor of Justice with the Constitution. It is not possible for members of the company's management to receive unemployment insurance benefits. The current regulation does not comply with the principles of equal treatment, freedom to conduct a business or the fundamental right to property. The Chancellor of Justice gave reasons for his position with the same thoughts and conclusions as were set out in our draft submitted last September, which unfortunately was voted down in the Riigikogu. That is why we are putting forward the draft to speed up the process and shorten the time when the state is violating constitutional rights. The background is that, due to the change made in 2014, a person who has paid unemployment insurance contributions will still not receive insurance if he or she is a member of the board. In order to be compensated, the company should either wind up the company or resign from the management board. When this amendment was introduced in 2014, one of the reasons was that it was intended to prevent abuse, but it has not actually met this objective and has been like throwing a grenade at a fly. In addition, I would point out that the insurance coverage possibilities of the management board of the legal person, as well as the members of the supervisory board, have decreased even further since that year: health insurance cover was reduced from two months to one month after the termination of employment. We hope that if this issue reaches the big hall, it will receive the support of all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U9	Andrei Novikov, please! Andrei Novikov changed his mind. I have adopted four drafts and two inquiries. We deliver them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu. We need to confirm the week's agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U10	The first question to be discussed is Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Reps. On behalf of the heirs, please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U11	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the inquiry that was handed over to the Minister of Finance in November. The question is about which taxes the Estonian state collects, but above all which taxes in other parts of Europe the Estonian state has given up collecting. In 2000 a tax reform was carried out in Estonia, the main content of which was to replace the taxation of profits earned by the taxation of profits distributed by the company. The amendment was intended to give the owners of the company an incentive to reinvest the profits earned by the company. This, together with the expected influx of foreign capital, should have created the preconditions for creating new jobs and for rapid growth in GDP. When we handed over the inquiry in November, Swedbank's latest economic forecast had not yet appeared. But this forecast says that last year we reached a situation where corporate investment fell in the fourth quarter in a row and their share of GDP fell therefore to the lowest level of 20 years. So Estonia's tax distinction vis-à-vis the rest of the European Union has led us to the point that the level of investment is the lowest for 20 years. Unfortunately, profits are not always reinvested in Estonia, but are often given to the parent company as an unlimited loan. This is why we have reached a situation where companies with foreign participation have greater opportunities to withdraw their profits tax-free than companies operating in Estonia. Instead of dividends, the loan is used, on which companies do not pay income tax, because it is not, formally, a distribution of profits. This is clearly legal action. However, compared to the distribution of dividends, there is a significant difference here: in the case of borrowing, a company that sends its profits to the parent company does not have to pay 20% income tax. Last year, Estonian Express brought out a number of well-known companies whose parent companies are outside Estonia. For example, Neste, a foreign-owned company holding a nationwide gas station network, was lending 55 million euros last year to its parent company. If this money had been taken out the way Estonian companies do, 13,75 million euros of income tax would have been paid to the state. But Neste didn't have to. In theory, the loan taken from the company must be repaid to the company at some point, but the practice shows that the owners extend the loans and do so indefinitely. These are hidden dividend payments, which result in a very large amount of tax revenue not being collected in the state budget. The Ministry of Finance, which is looking everywhere for every last euro cent in order to comply with the promises of the Coalition Agreement, should certainly also be familiar with this channel of cash withdrawal and could deal with it. We therefore have five questions for the Minister of Finance that I am not going to read about in terms of time savings. It is more convenient for the Minister himself to read the question and then answer it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U12	The question must be answered by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I respond to an inquiry, the content of which is the removal of corporate income tax-free from Estonia. I've been asked five questions. First I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. The first question: 'The idea of exempting reinvested profits from income tax should be to revive the Estonian economy, but today it applies as an exemption to outstanding profits that can be taken out by the parent company as an unlimited loan. In whose interest is such an opportunity made the Estonian tax system? " Borrowing and lending are a normal part of the economic activity of many companies. Since the profits of companies are only taxed in Estonia when it is distributed, the undistributed profits of the company can be used for any investment, with the possibility of lending, including to a person related to the company, such as a parent company. In the latter case, the loan must be granted in accordance with the market conditions for loan terms, interest, possible guarantees and other components, since, if the parent company is granted a loan on more favourable terms than an equivalent loan between independent parties, the tax liability arises under the transfer pricing rules. If loan transactions can also be misused, the granting of the loan to the parent company cannot automatically be equated to the distribution of profits. The Estonian tax system alone is certainly not an incentive to grant the loans. The second question: 'How much tax revenue is left in the state budget due to the exemption from income tax on reinvested profits? Has it been analysed at ministerial level? ' The success of the income tax system cannot be assessed solely on the basis of tax receipts. The study "The impact of the non-taxation of undistributed profits on investments and economic development', which was completed in 2010 in cooperation with Praxis and the University of Tartu, found that the tax exemption on reinvested profits had a significant positive impact on investment volumes. The growth of liquid assets has improved the ability of companies to cope with the economic crisis. A positive impact on productivity and GDP was also found to be positive. It is important to have an accounting effect, which is reflected in the recognition of the actual profits of companies, as there is no incentive to hide the profits earned. This will help companies to mobilise both foreign investment and improve their credit capacity. Delaying the taxation of profits to the moment of distribution has also had a positive impact on the reputation of the Estonian investment environment. According to studies carried out among foreign investors, a favourable tax policy has been assessed as one of the most important factors for investing in Estonia. Estonia's effective tax rate on capital is not much lower than in Latvia and Lithuania, for example. The third question: 'What is your opinion, is it too costly in Estonia to pay dividends, which is why people are looking for ways to circumvent it? The question does not reveal what is too costly to pay out dividends in Estonia. It is clear that paying taxes is more expensive than not paying them, which is why there are always tax evasions. In countries where corporate income tax is already due at the time of profit, the possibility of tax evasion takes place earlier, may conceal profits, shift them to lower tax countries or use other methods to reduce taxable profits. Unlike many other countries, dividends are paid income tax only once in Estonia, at the time of distribution of profits, and there is no additional taxation at shareholder level. As the nominal tax rate on distributed profits is 20%, it may give the taxpayer a false impression that the tax burden is high, but it forgets the fact that the profits earned are tax-free. One way to make the payment of dividends even more attractive to companies is by proposing an idea that I have come up with myself: tax rules to encourage possible regular distribution of profits over time, so that regular distribution of profits can be useful for the company because of the tax percentage. Question 4: 'With the leadership of the Social Democrats, your government's work programme reached a point in the spring: 'We will give further attention to transactions between parent companies and subsidiaries. Every month we undertake to declare loans and deposits granted to and received from related parties, together with interest and returns, in order to facilitate the control of the tax authority's withdrawal of profits from Estonia. " Has this point been implemented, and with what results? " The Ministry of Finance analyses the issue of loans with a profit distribution character in a broader way than merely from the point of view of the obligation to formally declare. We have also discussed possible solutions somewhat with accounting and tax experts, who tend to take the view that declaration alone would not reduce possible abuses. Question 5: "What would your proposals be to prevent the hidden loss of profits? 'There are various ways of preventing the hidden removal of profits, starting from intensifying the control of the tax authorities until formal rules are laid down, including tax liability for loans granted to the parent company. When considering possible solutions, it should be taken into account that, although these measures may increase income tax revenues in the short term, there is a risk that Estonia's attractiveness as an investment environment, including as a financial centre for multinational groups, will be undermined in the longer term. That is why we in the Ministry of Finance have set out to analyse a number of ways of limiting the hidden distribution of profits without making it difficult for legitimate economic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U14	Questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U15	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In Europe, it is common for corporate income taxation to be subordinated to the interests of the country of origin of this profit. The owner chooses whether to spend the profits himself on the development of society, such as education, health or wherever. In that case, the taxable profits of the company shall be reduced by that cost. In the second case, it pays the entire amount of income tax. It's as if we don't want to do either, but get the profits out of this country tax-free and invest in your country. Such a reform was made once during the Laari government, and later minor improvements have been made there. But people still don't think it's fair. Why is our tax system frozen, so that we do not want to change it at all? After all, the European Union is actually asking us to do the same thing as other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U16	Thank you. You have made assessments in a key that I do not think is right. Why isn't it right? When I interpret your question and your introduction, you said that our tax system is somehow frozen and we cannot go on with this system. I don't think that's right. In my opinion, the opposite is true. Of course, there is no parallel world and we cannot measure results and know what would be the situation if we had a classic income tax system. But I am inclined to think that this is also demonstrated by the arrival of direct investment in Estonia and the declared profits of companies after the Law of 2000, that, even in 2008, when there was a global financial crisis, the possibility for entrepreneurs to survive in the context of the financial crisis was that the state had not taken any percentage of profits each year, be it a fifth or more, as an additional fiscal measure to the state budget. Look, if entrepreneurs are alive and businesses are able to develop, it also means new jobs. However, new jobs will in future mean tax receipts in the state budget, not to mention the well-being of people. I think that our tax system, which was created in 2000, has provided an opportunity to make Estonia more attractive. Let us not forget that, in fact, all countries are actually fighting now to get investments and that businesses would be attractive in that country. One important measure is certainly tax policy decision-making, not to mention, of course, regional measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U17	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I agree that non-taxation of profits will have a significant positive effect if this money is reinvested or paid into loans domestically, but loans to foreign companies without interest will not have any positive effect on the Estonian economy. Do you agree with me? What is the positive impact on the Estonian economy if profits are borrowed tax-free abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U19	Thank you. I also stated in one reply that the nature of each loan, such as interest rates and tax rates, should be monitored. If the loan does not meet the conditions prevailing on the market, then the automatic tax liability arises under the transfer pricing rules. This option exists and is based on borrowing whether the loan is granted to a third party or to a related party within the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U20	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U21	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! This is another dogma that Estonia does not want to give up in any way. I would remind you that this is a unique experiment in the world, no such experiment is being conducted anywhere else. As the author of the inquiry said, Estonian foreign investments are in the lowest position for 20 years, so this experiment has not met its objective. I will give you an example of a neighbouring country, Latvia, where foreign investments are larger than in Estonia. There's a classic corporate tax, which is 15%, real estate tax, car tax and a lot of taxes, but the investments go to that country for some reason. We have talked to business organisations who have said that it would be perfectly normal to introduce a classic income tax of 12 to 15% in Estonia as well. They said they'd be satisfied. Couldn't the solution be that this so-called reinvested profits cannot be dragged forward infinitely, but that investment should be made within a limited period of time, for example in two or three years, so that this investment can find its place and that money is not taken out of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U22	Thank you. I would keep two issues separate: possible reinvested profits and possible credit processes in the context of the profits generated. There's no equal sign between them. In the introduction to the question, you gave an example. You said that we are at a low level of investment and that investments go to countries with car taxes, property taxes, corporate tax and all other taxes. I dare to doubt that investments will go to those countries where there are as many and as high taxes as possible. Businesses will certainly rather look for countries with a simple and clear tax environment and as low a tax burden as possible. It is certainly preferable, not a situation in which the State collects taxes from an undertaking through a number of fiscal policy measures. Several studies have shown that Estonia's exceptional tax system has brought more entrepreneurs here. I think that if it were not for the tax system, we might now see an even more difficult situation in terms of investment. It is certainly worth looking for the cause of the decline in investment in other aspects, not the fact that Estonia is attractive to entrepreneurs. Let's see the bill. In 2000, this amendment was put into effect. In 1999, the total results of all companies were negative, but already in 2000, the companies showed real profits, all of them together. We have not talked about dividend policy today, but in the distribution of dividends, in the distribution of profits, the company has a real obligation under tax policy to transfer the income tax on dividends to the state budget. Looking not only at the last few or three years, but at the last six or seven years, the picture shows that companies have paid out half to a third of their profits in dividends. It could not be said that companies, making profits, are not paying it off and either are lending to someone or are keeping this money on the bill. The dividend policy also shows that companies are paying out 33 to 50% and more of the company's profits in the form of dividends.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Finance! I listened to your answers, but to Question No 2, which was very specific, you skilfully failed to answer. I'm going to ask you directly, without judging. How many billion euros have been removed from Estonia tax-free since 2000, in 15 years? Please answer by number and not by philosophing!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U25	Thank you. I think that no billion have been removed from Estonia in the accounting context, exempt from tax. Investments made in different countries do not mean that this money has been withdrawn tax-free. On the contrary, we may ask how much Estonian entrepreneurs have invested in foreign countries today, creating subsidiaries there, transferring loan capital and investing in new projects. We could ask you this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U26	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U27	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I listened carefully to your answers. If I understood correctly, to the last question, what are your proposals to prevent the hidden loss of profits, you replied that you were not going to do anything because classic corporate income tax would undermine Estonia's position and reduce our attractiveness, for example, as a financial centre for multinational groups. We have been operating this tax system for 15 years now. What multinational groups can you name that have brought their financial centres here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U28	Thank you. In the introduction to your question, again, you spoke of what did not respond at all to what has been said here today. The Ministry of Finance is analysing the real situation. Of course, we could get the formal part of the Government's work plan confirmed. You also stated that the government's work plan states that the government will pay attention, which means that it will have to declare every month the loans and deposits granted to and received from the related parties, together with interest and return. I think it's a formal side that can and should be implemented. The other side is substantive. It is important to make sure that the Estonian business environment does not lose its attractiveness, and we need to understand why one or the other loan activity has taken place within the group. This analysis will take time. We have met several times in the Ministry of Finance with leading audit firms that are represented in Estonia. They have given us quite a number of inputs, the current situation reviews are, of course, based on the confidentiality of the client, not on customer-centred basis, but on the general principles of how possible lending activities are carried out within the group. In the near future, we will come up with proposals. We must always take into account when proposing, so that our attractiveness is not damaged. The place where you started is that the state of Estonia and the state of Estonia's budget are damaged by the fact that there is no classic corporate tax is not correct. As I mentioned, companies are now declaring up to half their annual profits. I think that if they do not have to pay income tax on profits, they have been given the opportunity to invest in capital goods and new projects. This, in turn, means possible new jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U29	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Are you ready to lift the cover a little bit and introduce the content of the proposals you spoke about in your answer to the previous question? When are you going to come out with them? I have understood what you have said at the moment that this point in the government's work programme, that the transactions between parent companies and subsidiaries must be taken into consideration, is certainly correct, but you feel that this second sentence does not constitute the most effective measure. Therefore, you want to replace it with some better and more effective measure. What could it still be? It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U31	Thank you. I'd rather look at them in combination, they don't rule out each other. In order to formally comply with the points of the government's work plan, it is indeed possible to enter into a regulation, a decree or a law that it is necessary to declare its loan and any additional indications relating to the loan, from the length of the loan to the interest. The second option is proposals for a broader approach. I do not want to speculate until all aspects of taxation and attractiveness are clear. We certainly cannot create a situation where, at one point, Estonian entrepreneurs are in a more difficult situation than their competitors and partners in other countries. It requires analysis. I think it's early to speculate. You asked about the time factor when you could come up with any suggestions on the table. I think it's gonna happen in the next few months. Once the final proposals are in place, they can be clarified and the advantages and disadvantages of each proposal can be highlighted. This is the work we are doing today, and it is quite real. Quite a number of times have come together, as I have already emphasised in one reply, with the tax policy leaders of the four largest audit firms, to talk about these issues and to feel the changes that could make Estonia less attractive and what changes that would maintain its attractiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U32	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U33	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I must begin by stating that the answers prepared for you were, I'm sorry, in my opinion, quite formal. With answers to further questions, you have made them very clear, but I still want to ask you a question. Do you think that the problem described by the inquisitors is also a problem, or do you simply see the opposition's malicious approach here? How big a problem is that? You have consistently avoided all accounts. Have your ministry officials found out about the amount of these loans to parent companies abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U34	Thank you. The question of whether we see a problem in this is the answer to the government coalition agreement and the work programme. The government's work programme states that we are focusing on loans between parent companies and subsidiaries and that we want to focus attention on them. As you said, the deeper we go into the content, the more additional questions about the pros and cons will arise. When a company creates a subsidiary, makes a new investment and provides loan capital through this investment, it is a move in one direction, when a subsidiary returns money to the parent company, it is a move in the other direction. We do not want to lose our attractiveness, but this is an issue that we want to deal with. Since we have not yet set out all the obligations to declare, I owe you an answer as to the total amount of loans between companies, particularly as regards, for example, the parent and subsidiary or the subsidiary and subsidiary. This is also a question of a subsidiary of a parent company granting a loan to another subsidiary. I think it would certainly be worth paying attention in the future to parallel loans within the so-called group, I mean two subsidiaries of one of the parent companies within one group, and certainly attention should be paid to a higher level, i.e. the level of the subsidiary and the level of the parent company. But we must also make sure that the attractiveness does not suffer. Yes, once again, I don't think it's against the opposition. I think it is very reasonable to draw attention to this. As I said, I will be ready to discuss this matter in the near future. It is always a good idea to discuss issues when there is a very clear understanding of why one or the other measure would contribute to solving problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U35	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The exemption from income tax on reinvested profits is undoubtedly the most favourable tax measure for growth and investment. In addition to all this, however, public perceptions have often emerged, just as if no corporate tax was collected in Estonia at all. I think it is quite appropriate for you here, perhaps, to mention from this remote control the amount that, in fact, every year, despite the fact that we have a tax exemption on reinvested corporate profits, corporation tax is still due. I recall that Swedbank alone paid EUR 100 million in corporate tax last year, which, yes, was a great thing for the state, but sadly, it has to say that it increased our tax burden by half a percentage point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U37	Thank you. I'll start from a distance. True, every tax received by the state budget statistically increases the overall tax burden as a ratio to GDP. Statistically, that is true. Now I'm going to go to your question. As I said when I answered one question, when I looked at the breaking point, the time when the law was passed, 1999 versus 2000, the declared profits increased exponentially. Companies declared profits of EUR 754 million in 2000, when in 1999 there was a substantial minus or EUR 14 million in total for all companies. It is remarkable what happened at the moment when there was no reason to hide the profits, if you could say so, for those who wished not to pay taxes or wanted to increase their cost base. It went on and on every year. I am not saying that the declared profits increased, but I would point out that in 2002, the declared profits were EUR 1.2 billion, EUR 1.6 billion in 2003, almost EUR 2 billion in 2004, EUR 2.5 billion in 2005, EUR 3.9 billion in 2006, etc. In 2008 there was a general financial crisis and the net profit declared in Estonia also decreased. After the financial crisis, we can see that, in a stable way, I have data for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 that have started to increase again. In 2010, there were EUR 2 billion, in 2011 EUR 3 billion in profits, I am talking about profits, we are about to reach dividends, in 2012 EUR 3.5 billion and in 2013 already EUR 3.7 billion in profits. So there has been an increase in the so-called declared profits. When we talk about dividends, here is another question as to whether or not dividends are paid at all. Statistics Estonia has collected data on dividends since 2005. I have a dividend payment schedule for the last ten years. Once again, we can see that, while EUR 516 million of dividends were declared in 2005, on which income tax was also paid, in 2006 this amount had already increased to EUR 680 million, in 2007 it was almost a billion, in 2008 as well as almost a billion, in 2012, 2013 and 2014 already more than EUR 1.3 billion, for example in 2013. These are the dividends that have been declared. Now, in turn, when we finally come to the question of whether income tax will be paid on it, if it has been declared and disbursements are taking place, we can say that we will also see the real budgeting of the money. EUR 159 million were received in 2010. If we look at the level of declaration, 2 billion net profits were generated, 804 million dividends were withdrawn and the dividend tax was 159 million euros, which actually came to the State. We can see that it was 164 million in 2011, 197 million in 2012, 265 million in 2013 and 276 million in 2014. Every year, income tax on dividends has increased steadily. Perhaps, in answer to your question, entrepreneurs have started to withdraw dividends more and more. Whether this is due to the fact that there are not enough investment objects is a separate issue, but we can see that more and more are not only declared, but that dividends are actually withdrawn by paying income tax on it as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U38	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U39	Thank you. The increase in excise duties on fuel and VAT on accommodation facilities was done by the government, although it is not included in the coalition agreement. The issue of exempt corporate income is mentioned in the Coalition Agreement, but the government does not deal with it. So the government has a pretty interesting approach to the coalition agreement. But if you do not want to tell us how much income has been taken out of Estonia as tax-free loans, perhaps you will tell us how much of these loans have been paid back to Estonia in this 15 year period?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U40	Thank you. I like to debate, but it is difficult to debate with you if the statement in your question is not correct again and half the time you answer has to deal with the rejection of your claim. You said that the government was not dealing with this, although I spoke in most of my speeches about the analysis being carried out, in a few months you will have proposals on the table and so on. But you say, well, the government doesn't. It's really hard to debate like this. We're working on it and more. Making the business environment attractive is one of the important objectives of the current government. If you take note of what this means in its very nature, we are now only talking about tax policy decisions, you will see that labour taxes, which are one of the important inputs, are falling in the coming years, both labour taxes relating to the worker and labour taxes relating to the employer. The tax-free minimum increases and the social tax percentage decreases. When labour taxes fall, certain taxes (i.e. taxes related to consumption, certain vices and the environment) will rise to maintain tax neutrality. It cannot be said that the government is not dealing with this issue. He's doing more and more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U41	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U42	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The high profitability of commercial banks operating in Estonia is generally known. But give further examples of some Member States of the European Union where some commercial banks have just as high rates of return. How would the welfare of the owners of a commercial bank be reduced by introducing a classic income tax and what effect would it have on the Estonian Treasury?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U43	Thank you. When I answered one question before, I gave examples of the sums that have been received into the state budget over the years, the money has been in hundreds of millions every year. It's a reality. Maybe I feel wrong, but let's not be afraid of companies making profits. That's not a problem. Let us not fear it! God would give companies more profits, because the more they have profits, the more they have the opportunity to invest and create new jobs. That is not a question, and that is not a problem. In our opinion, it is important to have an interest in creating new businesses in Estonia. It is not a question of one sector or another. Not only banks, but quite a lot of companies have big profits. We hope that this trend will continue. We also see a different trend. This is caused by a number of world markets which the state is unable to control, although it has never been said that it should control the price of water and electricity, etc. We are not able to control it, the world market is doing its job. We can see that some companies will also find themselves in an attractive environment due to the problem of world market prices, where they are forced to lay off people. These are our problems today, not when one or the other company makes a profit. Let us try to create a situation where Estonia has an interest in creating businesses! In this last example, I meant Ida-Virumaa and VKG. I think we need to review tax policy. What is the resource fee? This is a fee for the use of state resources by a particular company. If we are in a situation where the state has received a resource fee and taxes on existing jobs, plus more dividends, but if at one point these products can no longer be sold on the world market, both the resource fee and the jobs could disappear. Consequently, at that point in time, the State has to consider whether it would make sense either to reduce the remuneration or to link it to world market prices. In this particular example, the State is dealing with this. These are the issues that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U44	The Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu gives the Riigikogu an opportunity to ask only one oral question during the discussion of the inquiry. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U45	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said it was the interest of the state to create new businesses. But life shows that where you're going to build, you need three or four things: electricity, water, sewerage, etc. Where they exist, it's easier to do it. I remember 20 years ago almost 38% of the core funds were in Ida-Virumaa. Today, however, the biggest problems with jobs are in Ida-Virumaa. This means that in recent years no one has been involved in this region's programme. Can your government take responsibility for what's going on there now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U46	Thank you. I will first say to those gentlemen who wanted to ask a second question that I will still be there afterwards. I'm ready to answer all the questions later in the hallway. These aren't going to be written in the verbatim, but all the questions will be answered. As regards Ida-Viru County, your constituency, when putting together the 2016 budget in autumn 2015, there was a specific discussion with both the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Enterprise on how to increase the attractiveness of this particular region. You certainly know that one example is industrial parks where the state actually puts taxpayers' money in, precisely in order for businesses to come and create new jobs. Of course, if we look more globally, there is no parallel world, as I said in one of my responses. But I think that our current tax system has been so attractive that it is wanted to come here, that it is wanted to create jobs here. Moreover, you can always compare yourself with those countries with which the same starting position has started. Let us look at our good neighbours Latvia and Lithuania. Certainly, a number of our statistics are such as median wages, average wages, size of investments, that we have nothing to be ashamed of compared to others. We have our other neighbours, Nordics, Scandinavia, as our goal. But compared to those we took off with 20 to 25 years ago, we have no reason to be ashamed. I think our tax system has worked perfectly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U47	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U48	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of Mrs Põllea. If you do not know or do not want to say how much money has been taken out of Estonia under the name of a loan that could be taxed, then perhaps you can tell how much of these loans have been paid back to Estonia? We know that one of the reasons why we have so-called negative investments is actually that a lot of money was borrowed to Estonia in its time, then this money was collected again from here and this stream went negative. How many of these loans have come back?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U49	Thank you. We do not have separate statistics on how many loans go out and how much comes in. We are looking more at direct investment, they are like more important. Remember, an investment doesn't always mean a loan. Rather, it could be said that a very large number of investments are made not in the form of a loan, but in the form of a real investment. Here you cannot automatically mark an equal sign that if an investment has been made in Estonia, it has been made in the form of loan capital. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U50	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You did not exactly answer my colleague Jaanus Karilaiu's question, so I will repeat that. In which country of the European Union do commercial banks still have as high a profit margin as in Estonia? In 2011, we did not receive any cents of corporate tax from commercial banks. Are any other countries as powerful as Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U52	Thank you. I ask you in return: do you want to be taxed on every activity, every single euro that comes in profit, and as high as possible? I think it's the other way around. We should rather be proud of the fact that banking in banking and in all other sectors does not make any sense to mention here in isolation just because Estonian companies have had the opportunity to invest profits in several projects before taking away a quarter, a fifth or even a third of the profits. I think we should be satisfied with this and look at it this way. If you look at last year, you can see that the banks are also beginning to reach the point that they are paying more and more dividends and tax on them. One example is Swedbank, which you mentioned in one question. Perhaps less is known that SEB Pank has also made the first historic dividend payment. Banks have started to pay dividends. If you want to talk about this particular sector, the banking sector, and build your own question on this basis, I will tell you that the banks' current profits have also provided an opportunity to increase their credibility in meeting several criteria. Perhaps, as a result, the price of their own issued capital has been cheaper for customers. So once again, apart from one particular sector or another, I think that, in view of the overall picture, our current tax system is much more attractive than if we were to take on an ever higher corporate tax. That is what market participants say. If you ask them what affects their decision to come to one market or another, it turns out that there are a lot of aspects. One important aspect is certainly the tax system. Of course, it is also important whether there are infrastructures and what the overall level of payment is. It is also important whether you have to pay the income you earn immediately or whether you have the opportunity to make additional investments in the course of enlargement. If you don't have to expand anymore, you're gonna pay off the dividends to the owners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U53	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The tax environment is very important and your story is very good and beautiful. But I will give a slightly different example of our tax system. The Committee on Economic Affairs visited a company such as Estonian Cell, which produces wood pulp. This is the largest electricity consumer, i.e. the company that consumes the most electricity in Estonia. When this industry was developed in Estonia, the plan was to set up another company here, which would have brought 150 million euros of investment, but unfortunately our tax policy in the field of electricity did not allow it. The company has been working at a loss for ten years, precisely because our tax policy on resource or electricity has changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U55	A question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U56	Does it not make sense to you that, in the course of the work process, taxes are first changed and then you can think about taxing profits?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U57	Thank you. I do not know if you are also one of the initiators of this inquiry, but with your question you go against the other members of your group. The essence of your group's questioning is that we are going to tax profits first, but you are asking whether we should pay attention to other inputs. Yeah, I think it's time to turn. This is very right, and we have done so. We are paying attention to reducing taxes on labour, for example. You gave an example of the Estonian Cell. I've also met with the leadership of Estonian Cell. It is a question of electricity excise duty, which is not, by the way, the biggest source of expenditure at all, which is 4 to 5% of the total cost. Estonia has a simple, clear system with few exceptions. Of course, it's not cut into stone, there can be changes. But we must definitely be careful when making changes, because it is always a temptation to make the VAT on food go down or the like. Once again, it is a question of who wins from it in concrete terms, whether it is the richer consumer or the poorer consumer. Any exceptions definitely require in-depth analysis. But once again, your question was correct. We should not pay attention to how to tax businesses as highly as possible, but we should deal with exactly what you have pointed out in your question: how to make Estonian entrepreneurs more attractive to be here and to act. That's right!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U58	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U59	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance! I think the time has come for the Estonian tax system to be reviewed. I think the Minister has figured that out, too. The goal that this system has ever achieved is no longer fulfilled. Let's look at the same corporate tax. Such a tax system is used in the world only in Estonia, as far as I know, and no one even tries to follow it. I wonder why they will not be infected by this positive example and will not, like Estonia, tax only the profits that are being carried out? If it were a golden environment, Estonia should be flooded with investments, but unfortunately it is not. The investment volume is the lowest in 20 years. There is nothing to do; in neighbouring Latvia, the volume of investments is larger, despite the fact that there are taxes that do not exist in Estonia. If the Circa billion euros of free money is taken out of here, it means that the environment is not so good for us to invest or reinvest here. In addition to the banks, the fuel companies also issue the money. Recently, we read the news that the G4S brought out 87 million euros and borrowed the money from Britain. It has been said that jobs will be created. But if money is borrowed from Estonia, jobs will not be created in Estonia. They arise in the countries to which this money is lent, either Sweden, Finland or somewhere else. The aim should, however, be above all that this money should start creating jobs in Estonia. We have spoken with representatives of several business organisations. It has become clear that entrepreneurs in Estonia would also be satisfied and agree with the introduction of a classic corporate income tax, which could be 12 to 15%. In Latvia, it's 15%, I remember, we could be a little bit cheaper. This would lead to stable revenue for the state budget. What is so much to rejoice about here when Swedbank paid 100 million euros to the state budget last year? It would have been like a big gift, so the bank representatives should be invited to a reception somewhere and given them a special prize. But don't forget how much this bank has earned in Estonia and how much it has taken out of here! As I recall, I have presented a question to the Prime Minister on this subject ♪ had made a profit of 2.9 billion euros in Estonia by 2013 alone, and on that he had paid income tax in the order of twenty million euros. What are we happy about? Other banks, SEB and other groups can be added here. Where is this victory? Our victory would be if this money were invested in Estonia, there would be no victory if this money was borrowed tax-free from Estonia. I think it's time to review the tax system. Our questioning is certainly not malicious. We agree to debate with the Minister of Finance and the Ministry, but it cannot be that the rest of the world is stupid and Estonia is the only one smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U60	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U61	Ladies and gentlemen, You got a few answers to scratch your ear. It seems that the Minister for Finance, who is an IRL member, believes that commercial banks operating in Estonia are like sacred cows, which are not very encouraged to touch, and do not dare to touch their high profits. We asked twice very specifically, but there was no answer as to whether there were still Member States of the European Union where the banks had such high profits and where their contribution to the welfare of society was so low. We also gave a very clear example of how much profit they made in 2011 according to Eesti Pank, and showed that their contribution to the Treasury was actually round zero. It was very strange to hear the story that the VKG would be rescued. Let me give you an example. When the law of the earth was pushed through in the beginning of the summer, in June, there were 14 days and three readings were made during it. On top of this large press, it was promised that 500 new jobs would be created in Ida-Virumaa on the basis of this law on the ground, adopted under the accelerated procedure. This was promised from this speaker, both ministers and politicians from the coalition promised new jobs. It's too late to deal with the VKG. Why these signals were not heard earlier, it is a question of its own. I do not know how an increase in VAT on accommodation establishments will affect employment in Läänemaa, Saaremaa, Valgamaa and Võrumaa. The Minister of Finance did not answer that question. On a number of issues, the Minister for Finance actually shunned the answer, showing both our weak economic policy and our fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U62	Members of the Riigikogu do not want to speak again. Does Secretary of Finance Sven Sester want to say something at the end of the negotiations? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U63	The next item is the question of March Sults, Peeter Ernitsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Erki Savisaare, Valeri Korbi, Kadri Samson and Jaanus Kariladi. On behalf of the heirs, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U64	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! The inquiry was submitted on 18 November m. a Minister of Education Jürgen Ligile. The content of the inquiry is the situation in the educational landscape, but basically the fact that teachers have been taken away from career paths. There is no career ladder as such, and neither is the definition of who is a teacher. I mean, it matters whether he's an hour giver or an hourwalker. According to Gaussian distribution curve and statistics, one third is teachers, one third is hourly, and one third is just employees who are "hole-filled." But these things aren't defined, they're denied, they're not. Wage disputes and wage negotiations were all so brutal that teachers were like some kind of rag dolls who were all calling out, that why they were not happy with what they had, they had everything, they had a warm job, they had a sure-for-nothing pay that they would definitely get on a certain date, a long vacation and everything. What are they whining about? But at the same time, there are no stages of development. There is a minimum wage. Then the sentence is that the local government does not prohibit anyone from paying as much as possible. The next thing is, if you want to raise the pay of teachers, you have to increase some of them's standard burden and pay the minimum wage by a coefficient so you can differentiate the pay of teachers. It's no secret to anyone that if you want to know how much the teacher costs in the eyes of the students, you'll see how many students there are in class during the eighth-to-one hour. I think you, too, Jürgen, took a break from the eighth or ninth hour when there was some senseless teacher. I am absolutely convinced of that. You didn't go to the first class when there was a senseless teacher. But this pointless teacher received a different salary than a meaningful teacher when you and I went to school, because a meaningful teacher was either a senior teacher or a Methodist teacher. You're saying there's no need to label or put on a bunch of teachers. Yes, I do. How to Tallinn 7. High school, or the current English College of Tallinn, received its image? He got it by not employing a single person who at least didn't have a senior teacher's degree. Only then could she apply for a teacher's position. Or Sven Sester wouldn't have the multiplication table in his head as well as the school where he studied and got his education wouldn't have a cruelly required multiplication table, knowledge of the laws of physics, logic, etc. So there's nothing to do. I must say that Tallinn Art High School also provides a hell of a good education. Sven Sester, look, it's okay. I have questions, too. Since this enquiry was submitted on 18 November, some of it has already expired. But the questions, if that's what's left. Don't you think that if the Minister of Foreign Affairs answers questions about his field 'don't know' or 'can't say', it gives the outsiders an incompetent impression of the Minister? That is the question that was put last year, because when the budget was made, Mr Nearly could not really answer the questions. Maybe he can now. Secondly, we ask what components are the teacher's salary. We are interested in what proportion and what different sources of funding (municipal, public and private) are used to shape teachers' salaries and how teachers' salaries are calculated. We want precise instructions and rules. What is the development of, and what arguments are based on, the regional bounty coefficient (municipal schools, state schools)? We had one more question. A kindergarten teacher meeting national qualification requirements has not yet been treated as a teacher in general education. What is the reason? Why can't the state pay out the difference between the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers in different counties? If a large part is paid by the local government and the missing part is paid by the state, this is not a complex formula. In total, the municipal school teacher's minimum wage would be paid. This fork may be 50.100, maybe 200 euros. But it can't be paid because the Ministry of Education and Research and the government can't admit that they've been miscalculating somewhere. I ask for concrete and meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U65	Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U66	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! I believe Mr. Sults already has the material to post Facebook. I don't have to spend any more time on questions. I'm telling you, I didn't skip school. I was so disciplined, yeah. I did trouble in class, but I never skipped school. My mom would have found out about it right away. She was a teacher at the same school. But now I'm going to answer your questions. Already in your introduction, you had a fundamental statement, which you did not ask about later. It was whether or not the grades are an incentive for young people. Unfortunately, they are certainly more of an obstacle to going to school for work. These stages, that's probably the right word, which used to be, favoured careers, but not entry into the labour market. In this sense, your claim is inaccurate or, let's say, wrong. In itself, the differentiation of teachers' salaries is still one of the most important driving levers in the school itself; it is not done here from Tõnismäe or from Munga Street in Tartu. We want to increase the independence of schools all the time and trust them more, not dictate wage policies to them. On the first question, I am accused of saying that I do not know things, and I give the impression of incompetence. You know perfectly well the circumstances under which I have responded in this way. This took place when the issue of pay was unsolved by the Riigikogu and the government. The expectations were finally bigger than the cover, and I didn't hide it. But generally, I advise all politicians not to play dumb. If you don't, you have to say I don't know, not say I do, and bullshit. I've never gone to that glue before. The second question was: What are the components of the teacher's salary? These components, as you know, are two: one is the minimum wage, which is EUR 958 this year, and the other is the variable component, 20%, which can be divided into a wage fund according to the teacher's contribution and the size of the tasks. There's no more intervention here. What is the basis for the distribution of salary, I have said here many times. You can ask again, and I can answer, but the answer is still the same: the Alliance of Educational Workers, the Association of School Leaders and the Ministry of Education and Research have concluded a good intention agreement which sets out the guidelines on how to guide teachers in their pay. A full-time job is considered to be 35 hours, which includes all activities, not just contact hours, and it is estimated that there are up to 24 lessons per week in it. At one time, some felt that the teacher could also be required to spend 35 hours in front of the class. That is certainly not what we consider right, and that is what this agreement describes. However, 21 lessons are used as the basis for calculating educational support. This corresponds to an average efficient school network. It has a certain margin, but it also shows that in itself the salary may be much higher if the decisions on the size of the classes and the number of schools have been bold and practical. What else? What are the components of the teacher's salary? As I said, there are two components, and the driver decides how he divides this variable part. The salary of a teacher working in a vocational education institution has the same minimum as that of a teacher working in a general education school, and the pay of a kindergarten teacher depends on the agreement between the Director and the teacher. Here the state does not intervene in any way, it is the result of the municipal wage policy. In what ratio and what different sources of funding are used? These sources of funding are well known to you. Vocational education is more national, municipal schools receive education support and cover their own operating costs from the municipal budget. How the private sector works, we will not tell them in advance. But private contributions, including tuition fees, can also be used as salaries if they wish. Let's see if there's any more questions. The third question: 'What will be and what arguments are based on the regional bounty coefficient (municipal schools and state schools)? ' As you know, the possibility for schools to pay their teachers' wages varies from region to region. This is why a regionally levelling coefficient system is used. We want basic school to be closer to home, and upper secondary schools could be less than they have been so far. They may also be further away from home. But we have created a system of coefficients to ensure that the teacher's salary is broadly the same across Estonia. In municipalities with more than 640 students, the coefficient is 1,0, with 100-640 students, with a coefficient of 1.0-1.44 and a coefficient of 1.95-2.4 in municipalities with less than 100 students. The regional coefficient of the upper secondary school is also required to ensure that education is as similar as possible across Estonia. The emphasis here is placed on the volume of selective courses so that it is the same in different regions and municipalities of Estonia. Where there are more than 500 students in in-patient education at upper secondary school, the coefficient is 1.0, with 400-500 students in in-patient education, the coefficient is 1.09 and where there are less than 400 students in in-patient education, the coefficient is 1.12. This shows that there's less differential here. This reflects that the number of students in upper secondary school is likely to be lower and that the number of schools is also lower. So they could be further from home. The regional component is weaker here. The fourth question is that a kindergarten teacher meeting national qualification requirements is still not treated as a general school teacher. This is again a question answered many and many times. These two jobs do not have the same qualification requirements, and the owner of the institution is often not the same. The wage of kindergarten workers is decided differently in the municipality. In schools, the state runs an equal wage policy across Estonia. It shall not be able to make those decisions on behalf of the local authorities or to enter those obligations in their budgets. It is also worth respecting the rights of local governments. The kindergarten is certainly a place that is much more self-governed than its membership. That's what the questions are about. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U67	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U68	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, I ask you to tell me a little bit more about these regional coefficients. Besides the number of students in the municipality, is there anything else that affects this coefficient, such as whether or not the municipality has already organized the educational network? Are there any other factors? How often will these coefficients be changed and revised? I met them about a year ago, and there were contradictions. Is there another system of coefficients in place today? Maybe there are other circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U69	Thank you. In general, education support is divided by the number of students and coefficients differentiate and mitigate the regional difference in the number of students, which affects the burden on teachers and the size of classes. The end result is influenced by the regional situation, but not by the distribution of education support. As I mentioned, municipalities whose school network is more economical can pay a higher salary than others. The number of contact hours is also not based on 24 but on 21, which means an average efficient school network. According to this, education support is distributed. It can be said that regional or municipal wages vary greatly depending on whether the school network is optimal. There's nothing we can do about it. Fortunately, we have this closer to optimism than some of our destiny mates who have had major problems. Southern neighbours have more problems with the school network and its funding. This free choice has resulted in very different teachers' salaries, and they are not happy about that. Right now, they're about to change that system. In education support, we put emphasis on the pay of teachers and put a strong sign on it so that no money can be transferred from there. Southern neighbours are in a situation that we have tried to avoid, where teachers tend to keep inefficient schools open at the expense of their salaries, and wages are often very low as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U70	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U71	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'll continue with the country schools. Today, many of these schools are quite small. The problem is that in some schools there are perhaps no children or very few children. The question arises as to what are these measures if they exist at all, so that the state can support the survival of some smaller schools in certain regions. Or do you think that if the county centres are basically the only place where basic education is given and only six classes remain in smaller places, then this is also one of the possible solutions in the future education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U72	The retention of schools depends on the distribution of education support, which is still distributed on a student basis. We have two major investment programmes aimed at organising the school network: the comprehensive school measure and the establishment of state secondary schools. Firstly, we are, of course, greatly reducing the burden on local governments to invest. Secondly, we take away the obligation to finance upper secondary school from municipalities with state secondary schools. So they have more resources, but that doesn't always make sense to keep small schools. For small schools, the emphasis is, yes, that the younger the age, the more reasonable it is to keep it close to home. This is how we do it in cooperation with the local governments. If we give them investment, these agreements also have an idea of which schools are sustainable and which we must, in any case, keep close to home.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U73	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You've brought out 21 normal-load hours. Can you tell me how many schools in Estonia today can be effective and guarantee teachers' salaries in this 21 hours per week? As a real person, I don't know much about this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U75	This 21 hours applies to the estimated load, which corresponds to the average efficiency. The available resources are divided by this. However, under this good intentions agreement, a higher number of hours is also acceptable. It's up to 24 hours. Exactly how many schools are there, it's hard for me to say, but about half the teachers don't work full time. That in itself is a sign. The number of schools will certainly decrease, it has decreased so far, and the number of schools that can provide full-time work will rather increase. Fortunately, we also have a bilateral demographic shift towards an increase in the number of students in the short term. One reason is the birth rate, with more children due to the higher birth rate of the last decade. Another reason is that our school education is pulling parents back from abroad. It's not the only factor, but it's one factor. Children are happy to be placed at school in Estonia not only because they study here in Estonian but also because they understand that they do not receive better education abroad, but rather because they receive better education in Estonia. Hundreds of families have returned for this. This, of course, also affects the fulfillment of the classes. We had this year's budget surprises that, on the one hand, there were more children than had been predicted and, on the other hand, their placement was more effective. This means that more full-time teachers and more full-time classes were in areas where overall the school network is more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U76	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The teacher is one of the strongest supporters of our good school system and good education. With regard to the teacher's motivation, you rightly said that one of the best motivators is the salary. But what do you think, and in the current interpretation of the Ministry of Education and Research, are these directions or initiatives that we should certainly do quickly to increase the dignity and importance of teaching in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U78	Thank you. Quite a big picture begins with the appreciation of education in general. I think we've done some cancer here. Like science, in my opinion, education has rather been linked to career opportunities, but education itself should also find a higher value and thus ennoble this profession. In any case, respect for the teaching profession today is not what it has been in history. But hopefully this trend has turned a little bit in the other direction. I have these doubts, but the gut can be deceiving and measuring it is difficult. Teacher training is, of course, important for improving the reputation. We cannot get over or around whether the teacher is competent in all that is expected of him. In IT, for example, we are making a turn at school as an option, but teachers are not as strong in this area as the students to whom it has all been a companion since it was small. And also, teachers' rights. A bill on this subject is coming up, so let's bring it here and discuss it. The teacher's ignorance of his rights is a problem. This is also generally reflected in his uncertainty, his reputation and certainly makes it difficult to come out of crisis situations. We must also not underestimate the issue of teachers' rights. I hope the Riigikogu will make wise decisions here. In the beginning, however, these decisions must be taken in the draft draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U79	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U80	Thank you, manager. Minister, I ask you about the teacher's salary. The teacher's load should be 21 lessons. But as we know, the teacher's minimum wage is 955 euros, but the average is, I don't know exactly, 1130 or 1140 euros, something like that. What's the difference? Are teachers who receive such a high salary more qualified or are they working overtime? What is the difference? Doesn't it happen because of overtime?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U81	Currently, more precise figures are such that EUR 958 is the minimum and EUR 1149 is the average. 20% is the variable part of the payroll, which is distributed within the education allowance with a label that this money must not be put elsewhere. But the pay policy is 20% of schools do. In addition, the school network is of course important. If the municipality has more energy to support a larger number of schools, it is certainly possible to contribute less to wages and the full load of teachers. That's how it's going to be, or so it's going to be. As I said, there are regions where this target can already be paid at present, in principle, with the available resources, teachers could be paid this salary of 120% of the average wage, as the performance of schools and classes is so effective. Studies confirm that smaller classes are not more effective according to the test results. In terms of social skills, the situation may even be the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U82	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Teachers' Pay Fund was one of the hottest subjects in the budget debate. What did the percentage of the payroll end up this year compared to last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U84	Thank you. The increase in the payroll was 6.4%. Of course, I had a bigger application, with the goal of reaching 120% by 2019. The debate on the budgetary strategy is now open again, and this issue is once again fixed in our area, with a preference for R &amp; D funding. Again, we intend to achieve better results, and this time the attention to teachers' salaries seems to be higher. I hope that the result will be better. But the problem is that there are no more internal resources in our budget. They exist in the school network, where municipalities make more decisions themselves, but internal sources, I mean, there is no room for redeployment anymore. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U85	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Märt Sultsi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Thank you to Minister Ligi. But he had a bit of a mix-up there. In 1983, when I went to school, I was a junior teacher. The salary was 75 rubles. Upon becoming a senior teacher, you could apply for a period of five years or if you had given up 12 to 16 hours of open time to the Commission and other teachers and had received a satisfactory grade for it. I mean, the motivation and career path were completely there. I was 23 when I went to school, when I was 25, I was one of the youngest teachers in Tallinn. The difference was that the junior teacher's salary was 75 rubles and the senior teacher's salary was 120 rubles. The methodology teacher received over 200 rubles. He received a salary from the state budget, a senior teacher from the local budget, or city budget. So please don't mislead me that money is the main thing! For man, the main thing is self-realization; for man, the main goal is where he wants to go. If he knows the target, he knows the way to get there. In 1983 there were also teachers who had their fur cap cleaned and glued to the chair. These teachers never got beyond the junior teacher's career; they had left school after three years, both from the womb of the sesamune cow and never came back to school again. But those who remained were real teachers. I say more abundantly, in terms of money, I have never lived as my first five years of school. I had money like horseback poop, so there was nothing to do with it. But everything was earned honestly, for the hours you've been given and for your qualifications. It all happened in three and a half years. At the moment, you do not think that you need to define a teaching profession, that a teacher does not need to be on any level, that he does not need to know the basics of differential psychology, that he does not need to be able to behave ethically, perform before an auditorium or establish himself. Let the school teach him. Everyone gets the same spanking. And the 20% limp that Mr. Near was talking about right now is a dream. It's to mislead people. It usually doesn't get to school because electives and all the other things cover it up, and the director doesn't have a lot of choices about how to pay his salary. He has to squeeze out this last salary somehow and then make big, big, crying cat eyes and tell those who have, say, only four or six hours at school that they can't be paid more than that and that's it. Then they both look a little sad. But whatever you do, kids have to be taught. That's how it goes. But the country won't be on that sled for long. That sled might say one day, "Oh, look, no more driving, and there's gonna be a reset." Don't believe everything the Minister says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U87	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U88	We will go to the third question that has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Külliiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas and Ain Lutsepp on 24 November 2015. An inquiry is about nature conservation and bears the number 108. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, responds to the inquiry. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Külliiki Kübarsse, to introduce him to the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U89	Good manager! Good minister! One of Estonia's largest assets is our own nature, which we can pass on to future generations. Although this is a common responsibility for all of us, the owners of protected private countries have this responsibility to a particularly large extent. If the State imposes on private land a nature conservation restriction that completely eliminates the use of the land for other purposes, the State shall place the landowner in full responsibility for the preservation of the nature on that land. As a result of such a disproportionate obligation, the State has provided in the Nature Conservation Act that, where the area protection regime severely restricts the use of immovable property, the State acquires its immovable property at the request of the landowner. This is where we're gonna have a big problem. In particular, when we submitted an inquiry, this list of properties was so long that it contained 229 applications. There are 217 applications left today. In an article published in the country newspaper in September, the Minister pointed out that if the practice of the last year continues, if the acquisition of these countries was to take place at EUR 4 to 5 million, then there would be somewhere to be reached. In our opinion, this money could be used to solve the circa 50 statements, but unfortunately, this year there will be only 0.8 million euros in this fund, which, according to our calculations, would take more than 17 years until we can solve the problematic statements. The purpose of our questioning is to raise awareness of the problem, but on the other hand, to clarify the reality of the situation. How many landowners, private landowners, are affected by this problem? What are the Minister's plans for the resolution of 217 applications for the acquisition of immovable property? There is a name on the list even since 2005, but mostly there are unresolved problems since 2006. Of course, we want to know from the Minister what his ideas for the future are, how to solve these problems. Does the Minister also intend to introduce any new regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U90	Thank you. Mr Marko Pomerantsi, Minister of the Environment, speaking chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U91	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Good questioners! The answer to the question is long. I hope you can separate the blades from the chuckles. I can also give a short answer, of course, it consists of a few sentences. First of all, Minister Pomerants has acknowledged the problem. Secondly, Minister Pomerants is working on the problem. Third, he's still working on it this week. Fourthly, he is not sure that, as a result of all these efforts, there will be no people in Estonia who will die by hating nature conservation without having a concrete solution to their problem. Fifthly, the Pomerants have declared that 2016 should be the year of nature conservation and human convergence under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, so that both go on in quality, both the people we communicate with and the people who represent nature conservation in a narrower sense as officials. And maybe we should split up. But you have asked specific questions, and it is up to me to answer specifically. On the first question, you are asking what nature-owned land is subject to conservation restrictions. In the nature reserves of protected areas, which are the zone with the strictest restrictions, you will get it all out of the verbatim, and do not make so many notes for 7093 hectares. It's gonna be one hektar in private. So the nature reserves contain most state-owned land. The areas covered by the protection regime for the target zone are nearly 400000 hectares, namely 395609 hectares, of which 91% are state-owned, 1% are public-owned, and I myself have an interest in who the owner is, but I do not know it now, and 8% are privately owned. This land under the target protection zone is, in fact, the main place of concern from the point of view of citizens, since the protection regime is usually strict there. The government, i.e. the state, can buy back these lands from its owners and the landowner can sell these lands. But as you all understand, and as I understand it, the pace is still such a pain in the ass. The third category is restricted zone protected areas with 265165 hectares, 53% of which are state-owned, 46% privately owned and 1% municipal. Then there is the category of areas with uninnovated protection arrangements, there are 8175 hectares and 58% of this land is state-owned, 2% is municipal and 40% is privately owned. There are 106623 hectares of storage areas, and 54% are owned by the State and 44% are privately owned. The natural sites protected by local government are 2862 hectares, 85% of which are state-owned, 6% are municipal and 9% are privately owned. The simple and short answer would have been that the country is a landowner in the most restrictive areas and, from a citizen's point of view, this is the case, from a national point of view, 91% are owned by the state and 8% are privately owned. The second question: Under the Nature Protection Act, the list of applications submitted for the acquisition of protected land is published on the website of the Ministry of Environment. According to the list published there, there are currently 229 applications for the acquisition of immovable property. By what time are you forecasting the final settlement of all statements currently on the list and the estimated cost of their acquisition? ' Well, it does change a little all the time, but as of 1 January, there were 217 statements, 147 of them in the priority order and 61 in the so-called secondary order. The procedure has not been initiated in respect of nine applications. Any subsequent statements that meet the acquisition criterion and are the subject of proceedings shall go to the end of the priority order. In 2015, 12 statements were added to the priority list. Thus, applications in the priority order are resolved on an ongoing basis, and new applications are constantly received in the same order. Applications in a secondary order shall be settled only after the applications in the priority order have been settled. If you try to put it in some sort of time frame, when it could all be solved, if the amount of land that needs to be acquired did not change, it would be possible to overcome it within four to five years. But I think this problem will grow over time. In the most extreme estimates, we need up to EUR 50 million to ensure that the country has acquired the land in the target zone or finally the land that belongs to it. So it can really take a lot of time, and that's why there's some other moves that need to be made. It should also be noted that every time the proceedings do not necessarily result in the acquisition of land by the State. There are also situations where people say that they are not satisfied with this price, even though everything is methodically done correctly, and they opt out of the sales decision. Then they just live on with these restrictions. There were five such properties in 2015 where the land was not intended to be sold. This meant EUR 113000, which can now be used for other people. The third question: 'Looking at the list of applications for the acquisition of immovable property on the website of the Ministry of the Environment, it can be seen that today, in late autumn 2015, there are applications at the beginning of the list that were submitted in 2006. The list contains at least 10 statements for which it is not decided whether the immovable property meets the acquisition criteria at all, including the oldest one from 2010. Please give your assessment of this situation. Are you going to change this situation? ' Indeed, the list contains earlier declarations since 2006, which are for properties whose acquisition procedure has been prolonged due to specific circumstances. There have been legal proceedings and price negotiations. However, apart from these exceptionally suspended procedures, the applications submitted in the second half of 2007 are currently being resolved. The number of properties acquired has varied over the years, with decisions per 100 properties per year taken in the mid-term between 2010 and 2014. In order to improve the situation and to quickly realize the order in which the land is acquired, we are looking for different ways. Under discussion, there is the possibility of an increase in the budget, a slight increase in the sale of state land left in reserve in order to use the funds received to acquire land subject to conservation restrictions, a critical review of the acquisition criteria, as well as an assessment of the procedures for offsetting, reparcelling or land exchange, and consideration of the use of the modified form. At the end of the list, there are ten statements in respect of which it was not decided in November 2015 whether or not those immovable property fulfilled the acquisition criteria. We agree that the list needed a critical review, and we also have explanations for all the properties. But as an example of style, there is one thing on the 2010 list where the owner himself has wished to suspend the procedure until the upgrading of the Otepää Nature Park conservation regime has ended and the functioning is not clear. I don't read these particular properties. If anyone's interested, I have them. Question 4: 'The establishment of conservational restrictions continues. This is understandable because our knowledge of the nature that surrounds us is constantly evolving and the state must constantly assess the state of endangered animal and plant species. In 2015 alone, the Government of the Republic or the Minister for the Environment has adopted 7 regulations relating to the protection of sites. How many are you planning to take additional protection over the next three years? We also ask you to provide information on the existing protected areas that you are planning to expand, as well as on the areas for which you are planning to change the protection regime. How many of these areas are private? ' The organisation of the protection regimes and borders of protected natural objects is necessary to ensure appropriate and proportionate protection of values and to bring the protection arrangements into line with the Nature Conservation Act. This applies in particular to Natura sites where conservation arrangements have been established prior to their inclusion in the Natura network and existing conservation arrangements do not take into account the achievement of Natura objectives. At the same time, the correction of the protection regimes means that if the protected values no longer exist in the area, these objects will be removed from protection. During the Soviet period protected protected areas, parks and individual objects that no longer meet the criterion of a national defence object, some objects have also been destroyed, and they are about to be removed from protection. In 2015, 16 objects were removed from protection. My competitors and myself had debates before the elections on the possible protection of Rakvere Vallimäe and Pahnimäe. By now, these objects have been removed from protection, as it is not appropriate to be protected by nature. However, this does not mean that something out of the ordinary should happen to them. The six protected areas formed in 2015 are completely new: Selisoo in Ida-Virumaa and Raadi in the vicinity of the Estonian National Museum, where all sorts of fine protected plants have been found during the inventory. Selisoo was part of the Natura birds and nature area since 2004. Last year, it was granted a national protection regime. The Raat Protection Area is designed to protect the habitats of protected plants of category 1 and 2. According to the Nature Conservation Act, all known habitats of category 1 species must be protected. The future place of decision is whether and how to treat plants in protection category 2. This is where the Ministry can come up with changes within the framework of the Nature Conservation Act. The remaining four areas are not new protected, they have so far been protected either as individual landscape objects or as permanent habitats. As far as the procedure is concerned, 115 draft rules on protection of protected areas are pending. Four of them are the protection rules for a completely new protected area (two are sea area, Neugrund and Apollo, here near Tallinn Astangu are once again protected species, and Keretu partially covers existing permanent habitats), and 111 times the protection rules for areas already protected are amended, their boundaries adjusted. When adjusting the boundaries of protected areas, the boundaries shall be aligned with the changed underlying maps, but shall also be adjusted in such a way that the boundaries are not cut through the values and habitats of the protected areas. These activities take place in different counties. With regard to the adjustment and exclusion from protection of pending borders, the plan is to reduce the area of protected areas by approximately 1400 hectares in the areas of Rapla, Saare, Lääne and Järva, where individual objects and parks are excluded from protection, as well as by reducing the boundaries of the protected area, such as Otepää and Kõrvemaa. In addition to 115 areas under way, the ex ante assessment envisages excluding from protection 30 areas protected during the circa Soviet period for which expert assessments are being carried out. Apart from protected areas and individual sites, the organisation of permanent habitats for the protection of species data and habitats of protected species is also underway. During this process, permanent habitats are removed from protection where protected species are no longer present and suitable habitats are not preserved. At the same time, new permanent habitats are also being formed. Greater expansion, 7,000 hectares, is planned in connection with the conservation of declining squirrel habitats. This is certainly a very passionate subject in Ida-Viru County. As a result of all this, the increase in the protected area on land is 2% of the land so far protected. The surface area of the protected area increases by 0,4% on Estonia's land, i.e. 18.4% instead of 18.8%, the protected area is 18.8% of Estonia's land, and the protected areas increase by 40000 hectares at sea. It is expected that private countries will have 15 to 20% of the protected land, while the rest will remain on state land. We're out of time and we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U92	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U93	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, thank you for your thorough answers and awareness of the problem. In our opinion, the state should respect the legitimate interests of the private owner here. But my question is how this process of decision-making to protect areas is still going. To what extent are regional policy and economic policy interests considered? Even the same example of flying squirrels raises many questions. Finally, you also said how much protected land we have. It's going to grow by 0.4%. Is there some kind of mental limit that doesn't make sense to cross? We understand that something needs to be taken into protection, but it is probably appropriate to exclude something from protection as well. Can't go too far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U94	Thanks! I don't know how much to add here. As you can see, the plan is not to exceed this order of magnitude. The real truth, which will eventually be confirmed by the Code of Protection, must be apparent, on the one hand, by taking the project as its starting point, which the conservationists have foreseen in describing these values, and, on the other hand, by the process of processing the project of the Code of Protection. That is a very topical question, and Mr Ammas has a clear picture. In the region of Virtsu in Läänemaa, people are very bright about the potential future borders and economic activity of the Pure-Lantu Reserve. I hope that the debates will be substantive and, as a result, nature conservation and people will approach, sensible restrictions will remain, these territories will be protected with varying degrees of rigour, but it will also take into account that the local community can continue to operate in a way that does not undermine the defence objectives. Such solutions should be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U95	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! It seems to me that the paradigms in Estonia are lightly, but maybe even severely wrong, because there are restrictions and restrictions both in nature conservation and in heritage conservation, although there could be concessions, motivation and recognition and there would be certain obligations with them. It could be different from what has already been formulated. There are quite a number of plots or properties on the Pärnumaa beach meadows, the owner of which simply expects the price of the land to rise, and nothing is happening there. But nature cannot exist as such a quilt. The species we want to come back here still need decent networks that are interconnected. Why not take Norway as an example? The way it is, if the master dies and inherits his farm to children who live in the city and are not going to run the farm, they are obliged to sell the farm to the one who will take care of the farm. Perhaps we should treat nature conservation in such a way that there are obligations, but there is respect and respect for those people who own land that is protected by nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U97	Thanks! If we look at this problem more generally, the aim of the state should be to give people at all, regardless of whether they are dead in the future, it awaits all of us in life, an understandable perspective and the limits to compensate, as is appropriate. But the current laws also take into account the circumstances in which the land is in the hands of the owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U98	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U99	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! If I have understood correctly, this year, there will be only EUR 0.8 million in this fund, which can solve problems. Why is this fall so big? A little over EUR 5 million was spent last year to solve the problems. The second question is whether you are about to make some sort of action plan for the government, so that this list will certainly be shortened and the problems solved. Is and what kind of help would you need from the third sector, the communities, even from this very opposition? What do you miss most?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U100	Thanks! If there was cash, it could buy gas. Right now, prices are cheap too. Money could buy anything, land, etc. Just to be clear, when it comes to this year, there is indeed EUR 0.8 million in the budget. We have received a promise in the budget negotiations from the Minister of Finance that when this money is over, one million euros will be in the reserve fund of the Government of the Republic for these countries, and we do not have to say in worship that the money is now over, but we will get that million euros from the Government's reserve fund. But what's the difference? In previous years, there were transitional surpluses, no land transactions were taking place, because there were major disputes over the countries at the top of the list, which are located in Tallinn. That's why there was a residue. At the end of last year, too, it was not quite clear how much of this money would be coming to this year. That's the budgetary reason. As far as the sector and its interests are concerned, you see, in all nature conservation activities, different organisations in the third sector have different interests. On the subject of the flying squirrel, for example, the minister receives constant letters asking why the Minister does not impose restrictions quickly and actively enough so that by 2020 a flight squirrel, our symbol of nature conservation, would not have died out. It's not just that people are against nature conservation. There are certainly many people who are very passionate about improving nature conservation. How am I going to move on? At least in our administration we should be able to agree which tools could be brought here. This does not mean that the queue has been eight years long, but after such a big plan has been put in place, in two years all the worries have been broken. But if we could expand our arsenal, after agreeing on our household, we should be able to sell this idea to our colleagues in the government. Then you can see if 2017 could be a little different in Estonia or not. But nature conservation remains after my ministerial work has been completed, and I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U101	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! We can see that over 200 people are waiting for their property to be acquired by the state, but there is no money for it. A few days ago, you presented a new law on nature conservation. It turned out that half of the 400 protected areas did not have the resources to make these so-called protection rules, etc. Am I right to conclude that you've hoged up a huge number of protected lands, but can't digest or manipulate it all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U103	Thanks! That's not true. By the time I arrived at the school, the classes had already begun. As a nature man, you yourself know that nature conservation in Estonia is over a hundred years old. It has passed its evolutionary stages, and now we have come to today's arrangement. As regards the drafting of protection rules or why they have not been done or what the situation is, I believe that the main issue was not so much a money problem, but simply a lot of things needed to be done in a short period of time. On the one hand, the number of experts is limited and, on the other hand, in order to achieve some reasonable result, it is necessary to put together the draft rule first, then it is necessary to carry out disclosures and discussions until a "final product" is created in the form of a protection rule. I don't know why, but obviously my predecessors have just been optimists about what the real time is to complete this process. Hence this deadline of 1 May 2016. Perhaps it was assumed that in some sort of campaign, it would be possible to do all of this, but this may not be the way to do it if a good result is to be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U104	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the sacred giants. How far is their mapping? Are they all mapped out, or do we still have work to do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U106	I do not know the exact answer, but I can assume that the other half of your question is correct, there is still work to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U107	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U108	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, first of all, thank you for your empathetic approach when you yourself brought up the subject of my country. Now I can ask more generally: is it possible in Estonia to exchange countries free of corruption, and could there not be one possible solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U109	Thank you. It was in the arsenal of my possible tools. I, as Minister of the Government of the Republic, have an agenda that the situation needs to be improved for the Estonian people. I always have private interests, of course, but these you will solve in such a way that all taxpayers, especially those who create some kind of value, pay me a salary. Most people in Estonia cannot afford as much as the Minister. I've solved that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U110	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I, too, thank you for your empathetic answers. I ask you about your detractive yet very beautiful sentence that 2016 will be the year of nature conservation and hopefully the year of the new quality of people. Would you open up the content of this beautiful glaring sentence in the context of nature conservation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U112	Thanks! This could mean, on the one hand, that we really have more to offer in the very real things that people expect, either to buy out their land or to gain opportunities. On the other hand, at the beginning of the year, I sent a letter to the people in my administration, where I, how to say, described the nature of the style book as how the environmental officer could handle his affairs in 2016 so that public discussions on the fate of the protection rules would be empathetic and substantive and would go out of the categories to make sure that either he likes or does not like to, would be argumentated and free from screaming. When people start screaming, there are no real arguments anymore, the real arguments are over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U113	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U114	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns the shared concerns of the two ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. As you know, in Natura sites, the rural development programme measures provide compensation to farmers and forest owners alike. Their payment does not really depend on the nature and existence of the restriction, except in reservations, target protection zones, etc. The same compensation for loss of income, regardless of whether there is an 80-year-old spruce or bush, is sufficient if the land is located in Natura. The same is true for agricultural land: some agricultural land has no restrictions in the Natura area, while others do, but the compensation is the same. Have you discussed with the Minister for Rural Affairs that his regulation should be amended, or do you consider the situation right and there will be no change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U115	We have been talking about the issue of the possibility of a similar situation, at least in the Natura sites and other areas with targeted zones, of applying the same support in other areas as Natura sites. Unfortunately, we haven't moved one bit forward here. At the moment, I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U116	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Külliiki Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U117	Good manager! Thank you, Minister, for really meaningful answers. But I still want to mark a few points. We must take into account that the rural people do not think in sections; they think in terms of their real possibilities. This priority of being more open and communicating in 2016 still means not so much technical arguments based on paragraphs, but human communication. It's a key question. We also feel that people's resentment for the country is increasing. It increases because of these little things. The smallest thing is communication between the authorities and people. Secondly, I still call on the government to make it a priority for at least four or five years to resolve this problem. This would mean an annual circuit of EUR 10 million, which, looking at the total budget, is not a very large amount. Let's make this a priority. I believe there are others here who would be willing to support it. Thirdly, we should think about what the Minister said was going to happen, but this should be done more seriously. It should be checked from time to time whether the restriction imposed is competent in today's terms. It's the same nesting grounds. Let's see if someone's nesting there or not. It is a problem that something is being introduced and that it will remain in force for a very long time, but it is a very vital concern for people. Four. The Minister in general mentioned that alternatives could be found. We have also thought here that we have learned one comma from the land exchange process, but perhaps it would make sense to look at it all again and find the correct solutions. This is certainly one way in which the state will be able to deliver faster rather than waiting for funds from the state budget. Fifthly, this is the subject of the future. The possibilities of extending nature reserves should certainly be reviewed. Here, I have realised that the Minister has also received letters of formal notice that the state does not tend to comply with the legal requirement to carry out socio-economic analyses. Local communities are a little disturbed by the fact that automatically, without the country's substantive justifications, the boundaries of protected areas will be expanded. If the state meets its own requirements, trust will be much more. I can only say so much that the Free Party is close to the heart of this matter. We are moving forward on this issue and we hope to be a partner to the government in order to find solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U118	Thank you. Mark Soosaare, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that I will see with my old eyes the day when our nature conservation takes a turn, so that living in a nature reserve and owning a land, an island or a forest tree is a matter of honor and pride, and the landlord himself very much wants to preserve the nature of his home and do so according to the rules of protection. But it is very important to think seriously about where to start from: must the protection code be drawn up in the study and on the basis of the knowledge gained at the University of Tartu, or could some protection rules be drawn up by local residents whose parents and grandparents have lived in this rural area and who know why the storyback toad, eagle or hag lived in their land or island, and what should be done to get him back there? There are quite a few countries in Estonia that have not been acquired because they are protected land and could sell them to the state and get a lot of money. Quite a few countries have been bought up in the hope that property prices will rise. These owners really need to be called to order, nothing left over. But it has to be done in a human way. Even if it turns out that there is no conservation interest, it is still necessary to invent mechanisms to dispose of these lands and to find new owners for these lands. This owner does not necessarily have to be a state, it may be a natural self-government or even a private owner, who is willing to preserve Estonian nature and do so according to the traditions of hundreds of years or thousands of years. I remember that during the composition of one Riigikogu, Mr Lotman said very nicely from this remote control that biodiversity, or biodiversity, is the greater the more the landowner contributes to his land and the more he loves his land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U120	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U121	We are going to the fourth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Andres Herkel on the 9th day of Christmas in 2015. The inquiry is about redundancies in health care, bearing the number 116 and is answered by the Minister of Public Administration Arto Aas. Please introduce the questioning of the speech chair of Ms Monika Haukanõmme, representative of the Riigikogu's heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U122	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! May I present to you the inquiry submitted on 9 December to the Minister for Public Administration, which was submitted by seven members of the Free Party on redundancies in the health sector in the context of the state reform. As you will remember, the University of Tartu Hospital announced at the beginning of December that the task given by the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Social Affairs to bring together 85 employees is not acceptable to them. They found that a lay-off of 85 jobs, or 14% of staff, was an overexploited demand. A total of 80 employees from more than 3800 staff must be made redundant at the North Estonian Regional Hospital. The University of Tartu Hospital also announced and warned that such a redundancy requirement is disproportionate and would impair the quality of health care. In addition, Tanel Ross, Chairman of the Management Board of the Health Insurance Fund, announced that money is already used effectively in Estonian health care. Both hospitals and the Health Insurance Fund pointed out that the proportion of the elderly population is constantly increasing, which means that demand for healthcare is increasing, and health care is already relatively cost-effective. In addition, attention was drawn to the fact that the exodus of medical personnel from Estonia has not stopped and is still significant. We are concerned that the government's plan for the redundancy of public sector employees resembles a simple mathematical formula, does not take into account the specifics of the sectors and has not been sufficiently discussed and discussed with the parties. In particular, the latter is the cause of various conflicts, which may lead to the failure to launch the state reform in the way it was planned. Once again, it is a communication problem that could have been avoided if time had been taken to discuss the subject and to keep in constant contact with the parties, rather than simply sharing command tables with them. The same problem has been repeatedly referred to by the Auditor General. We have therefore asked six questions that I am not going to read out here. It is now almost two months since the so-called riot in hospitals. There have been many meetings, discussions and discussions during this period, including in the Committee on Social Affairs, which means that perhaps some of our questions have already found a substantive answer. However, we are all the more pleased to hear how communication and cooperation with hospitals have progressed in the meantime and whether you have also planned corrections to look at the big picture more comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U123	Thank you. Arto Asa, Minister of State Administration, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U124	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the members of the Free Party Group for their questions on the reform of government. Indeed, in the meantime, there has been quite a lot of information on this subject, and my answer takes that into account. I must, however, start by pointing out that the Minister for Public Administration has not sent any letters or any numbers to hospitals. The division within the administration was made by the ministers. I'll tell you more about it. But there are also a number of issues in this inquiry that specifically concern reducing the number of employees in hospitals. These questions must be answered more precisely by the Minister for Health and Labour, who knows and knows the choices and opportunities of his administration. However, I am happy to explain the general guidelines for the reform of state governance, which form the basis for the decisions of the ministries on the reduction of the number of employees in the area of government. The aim of the reform of government is to provide services more efficiently, with lower costs and fewer employees. Reducing the number of employees in the public sector, in turn, provides an opportunity to use the available workforce in other sectors, thereby creating greater conditions for economic growth. The reform of state administration involves a number of activities that are also in the work of different ministries, including the government's goal of reducing the number of jobs in the government sector, in line with the decline in the working age population between 2016 and 2019 by an average of 0.7%, or about 700 people. On 28 May 2015, the government decided on the renewal of government administration in preparation of the country's budget strategy, specifying by number of administrative areas, on 17 September m. a when the state budget was discussed. The figures are indicative and give the ministries a general direction. The government did not prescribe a reduction in the number of employees in specific administrative bodies or agencies. According to the agreement, it was up to each minister. The aim is not a mechanical cut in the number of employees, but a reduction in the number of employees must be the result of substantial restructuring. It is possible that in some areas the number of workers can be reduced less, and in some areas more needs to be reduced. Nor can an increase in the number of employees be ruled out in certain important areas, but it should be taken into account that more needs to be cut elsewhere. The basis for the guidelines for reducing the number of employees in different areas of administration in 2015-2016 is the Ministry of Finance's analysis of the changes made to the institutions in the last five years. The analysis was carried out last July and August and all administrative areas were included. During the summer, discussions took place with all administrative staff and financial managers. In the calculation of the premiums, account was taken of the reforms and reforms already carried out over the last five years. Examples of major reformers include prisons, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Tax and Customs Board. Despite a reduction in the number of people at the Tax and Customs Board, the efficiency of tax collection has improved. This has been achieved by optimising and improving internal processes. In addition, account was taken of the differences in the field of national defence and the exceptional situation arising as a result of the implementation of the labour capacity reform and also in the context of the EU Presidency in the first half of 2018. In view of the above, the proportion of the reduction in the number of employees in the Ministry of Social Affairs was 2.1%, i.e. 235 employees. As of June last year, the Ministry of Social Affairs had 11179 employees, including a much smaller number of people in the University of Tartu Hospital 3609.The right number is 3609.The right one is 3314, North Estonia Regional Hospital 3314, AS Hoolekandeteenused 979, Viljandi Hospital 767, Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund 550, Social Insurance Institution 548, Health Board 306, Ministry of Social Affairs 252 employees, etc. The Government's Action Programme provides the Ministry of Finance with an analysis of the functions and location of the State, which will provide more precise analytical bases for organising changes in the future. The deadline is May 2016. It analyses which tasks of the state can be eliminated, which duplications can be completed, which tasks will be reorganized and which tasks will be transferred to private and third sectors. In addition, the division of national responsibilities between administrations will be analysed and proposals will be made to restructure the agencies with a view to reducing red tape and the volume of governance. At the same time, there is a duty on the part of the administration to prepare substantive reforms in order to improve their work and to reduce their workforce proportionally in the best possible way. It is the management of institutions that have the best knowledge of public and internal services and the opportunity to modify and update them. It was also a question of financing hospitals. I would point out that my message is and was that hospitals are financed from the state budget, they are part of the government sector, so it is also important to think about how to make the most of public money. Indeed, this is a moral obligation for all of us in the government sector. Hospitals have a budget of over EUR 500 million. I believe that we all have an interest in the fact that, in a situation where the number of taxpayers remains smaller and financial pressure continues to increase, we would be working as efficiently as possible. There's always something better to do. Finally, I would like to stress that the provision of high-quality healthcare is undoubtedly one of the most important issues in the organisation of state life. Given the decline in the working age population, the need to modernise and implement innovation, it is important to look for optimization options in all areas. As far as hospitals are concerned, we have said this earlier, and I assure you that the reduction of staff in hospitals must not be at the expense of health professionals, or doctors and nurses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U125	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U126	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It is clear that these redundancies are being carried out under the flag of the reform of the state and in order to save government expenditure. But our health care facilities, including regional hospitals, are all private institutions, public limited companies, foundations. How can the government tell them exactly how many people need to be gathered? It can be decided by the hospital council, but it cannot be prescribed by the government. There's a contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U127	Thank you. You're right. As the Chancellor of Justice said in his letter, and as we know perfectly in the government, they are part of the government sector, but they must be managed through the Council and the Executive Board. This letter, which has caused much controversy, was a letter from the Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the council members of hospitals, to the hospital administration, explaining that proposals were being sought and inviting them to think about how a substantial restructuring of the work would take place instead of a mechanical cut. In PERH and other hospitals, this is what happens through board members, management, so that everything is correct. Yeah, well, that's a communication issue, isn't it? I admit that this could always be done better, perhaps there was too little communication between the ministry and the agencies. Although, as far as I know, PERH has already announced that they see the possibility of restructuring work and more effective work, whether it is to the maximum extent, but still something. So together, we need to look for these solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U128	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It seems to me, too, that a little bit of the wrong end has started here. It would have been more convincing to start with the central authorities, the ministries themselves. That would have been a good sign. But I am interested in this 0.7% per year, so that the reduction in the workforce in the public sector is in line with the decline in the working age population. It seems somewhat small in this number, given our unfortunate demographic trends. What age is such a calculation of the working age population at all? Is it true about the portal policy? The version presented by the guru that you manipulated the statistics a little bit and stretched the upper limit of the working age population from 64 to 74 or something like that? Give us this calculation. And what about after 2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U130	Thank you. I'm not their policy. Guru portal, I don't know, with accusations or allegations. We can send you these calculations. We have certainly not manipulated statistics; we have used generally agreed data and forecasts and definitions from Statistics Estonia. But I'd be happy to give you this information in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U131	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U132	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree that you have not sent a letter to the hospitals. Of course the Ministry of Social Affairs did. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Affairs was still guided by your command tables. But that's it. It is a pleasure, of course, to say and hear, as you said in your reply, that the heads of institutions have a better knowledge of how to act as effectively as possible within the budget. At the same time, you have offered to pool support staff and instead start buying in services. As you know, hospitals are not subject to VAT, so the services they buy out would be at least 20% more expensive. Have you discussed with hospital managers, or have the Ministry of Social Affairs done so with your knowledge how to avoid such an increase in the cost of services?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U133	Thank you. I do not know exactly how intensively the Ministry of Social Affairs has been holding discussions with its administrative directors in recent weeks and months. I saw on the news today, if I'm not mistaken that Minister Ossinovski met people at the clinic. I think the PERH Council will meet to discuss these issues next Friday. It is true that the VAT issue for certain services is a nuance, while it is clear that some services are already purchased by hospitals. A large number of services, plus VAT, are being bought up throughout the public sector, yet it is being seen to be more effective. Institutions and organisations will then focus on their core tasks, but support services will be provided either by cleaning, cleaning, security, catering, solving technical issues, transport will still be provided by professionals who are focused on this area. Subcontracting allows these services to be bought in, it is always known what is happening on the market, and there is a complete overview of the costs. However, it is worth considering these options. Even schools buy catering services from the private sector. Here are some nuances that need to be taken into account, and I hope the Ministry of Social Affairs, along with the hospitals, has put these issues on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U134	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! They say in a difficult time, the devil begins to eat flies. Sisters and doctors are already overloaded. As we go around hospitals, the question arises as to where this thought came from in order to narrow down the sanitars, janitors, and other support services. Who had the idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U136	Thank you. I am not going to explain all this problem from the start and read my answer to the question again. Our fundamental problem is that the number of taxpayers is decreasing. One option is to look for more effective ways to organise work. The second option is that at some point we need to start raising taxes, even the same social tax from which this sector is financed. I prefer to go through this first path first. As has been said, in the government, we agreed, by administration, how many people should be pulled together on the basis of how many reforms were carried out over the last five years. The way ministers did this division within their administration was their free choice. Whether there were cuts in hospitals or elsewhere, as I read here, over 11000 people work in the Ministry of Social Affairs; besides hospitals, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board, the Health Board, the main house itself, was a purely ministerial and ministry choice. However, I realized that the attitude of the Ministry of Social Affairs was clearly this, and it was also said in the government that doctors and nurses should not do so. A quarter of hospital staff provides support services, that is thousands of people. Efficacy should be sought primarily there. That is a brief answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U137	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U138	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will ask about this redundancy plan in its entirety and more generally. Indeed, you can set an example from the very beginning. We have two ministers in health care, two ministers in the Ministry of Finance, and two ministers in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For a long time, it has been said that rural life and the environment could be in the hands of a ministry. When and what kind of ministry unification plan do you come up with? The redundancies of high-paid workers would be much more noticeable than the redundancies of low-paid workers. Savings would be almost equal to now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U139	Thank you. I can assure you that the volume of government and the number of people in the ministries will be tightened up. That's for sure. This is exactly what happens in the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and elsewhere. That's clear. But maybe it's a myth that ministries are awfully big. I remind you of the order of magnitude: the government sector has 120,000 government salaries, of which 2700 are employed in ministries, or 2% of the total public sector. This is definitely a place where people can and must be pulled together, but ministerial staff make up 2% of the total government sector. That is why these reduction plans are much bigger and look at much wider areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U140	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Did the word 'from some' concerning lay-off include, for example, the Kadriorg and Toompea institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U142	Thank you. Yeah. We gave more than a year to make changes. I believe that in the middle of this year we will already see exactly how many changes have been made. We have given the administration the opportunity that if they are unable to launch reforms during the first year, let them describe the steps they intend to take. They can really be done in the second and third years, but then in larger volumes. We'll get more information in the coming months, I believe, about how long steps have been taken. This information is completely available and verifiable, we have information systems and accounting systems for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U143	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue, or rather specify, the question of Mr Külmiki's Hatter. The point of his question was probably not that we thought that there was a great deal of labour in all ministries. We know it's not like that everywhere. I am now asking specifically: when are we going to reduce the number of ministers? We have a situation where there may be too many ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U145	Thank you. This is a broader issue that will be discussed in the conclusion of the coalition agreement, which priorities will be set and how many ministers there are. Two people were added to the Ministry of Finance by creating my ministerial position. For each member of the Riigikogu there are probably as many advisers and other assistants as I have as a minister. I don't know how far and where it could go. There have also been thoughts about reducing the number of members of the Riigikogu. You realise that in the big picture, its meaning is primarily symbolic, not financial. I believe that if we succeed in implementing the administrative reform and getting the reform of government to some stage, then perhaps there is no need for a minister of state administration or any other place in the next government. But we have, in any case, rather wanted to move towards a Scandinavian model of governance, so that there are not very large, strict and traditional silos or ministerial positions, but places are replayed on the basis of circumstances and political priorities. Maybe it takes one position for four years and another for the next four years. In my opinion, we could have such flexibility in governance in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U146	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U147	We will go to the fifth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernits, Viktor Vassiliev, Aadu Must, Erki Savisaar, Martin Repinski, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Esmaa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Kersti Sarapuu, Marika Tuus-Laul, Kadri Simson and Mailis Reps on 19 November 2015. Inquiry is about legal clarity when the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act enter into force and is numbered 105. Reply by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Toomas Vitsut, to introduce him to the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U148	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. On 19 November, the Central Party Group submitted to the Minister for Justice a request for legal clarity on the entry into force of the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. On 9 October 2014, the Riigikogu adopted the Cohabitation Act, which provided for implementing acts by 1 January 2016. In order to implement this law, a total of 24 legal acts need to be amended so that it becomes operational in practice. The situation in which the substantive legal basis for the conclusion of a partnership has been established, but there have been no organisational rules for guaranteeing a person's right under the law, is, in my opinion, contrary to § 14 of the Constitution. In the view of the respondents, it is primarily the responsibility of the government to remedy this situation. It is true that on 20 October last year, 38 members of the Riigikogu initiated the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act, but it has not yet been passed as a law. This has been discussed and discussed at length in the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the opinion of the heirs, it should not be someone else's responsibility to carry out such a process. It may be pointed out that it can be dealt with by Muhu's Grams and Setu's dads, but in fact, according to the prosecutors, this process should be carried out by the government. That is why we have put three questions to the Minister of Justice. We want to know the government's position because the government still has not been able to present it. We also want to know the personal position of the Minister of Justice. He said last April that he was not dealing with this issue, but the respondents believe that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice as the minister responsible for lawmaking. We look forward to the positions of the Minister of Justice and the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U149	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu for a speech chair Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U150	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The first question for the heirs is what my position on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act is and how the positions of the members of the Government of the Republic were divided. The representative of the heirs stressed that the Government of the Republic has an obligation to implement the laws adopted, to ensure that the legal order functions in a predictable manner. In this respect, it seems to me that there has been a great deal of legal terminology in the public debate, whether intentionally or unintentionally. The Cohabitation Act, which was adopted by the previous Parliament, says that the Cohabitation Act will enter into force with the adoption of implementing acts. The whole question now is what is implementing legislation. In response to this, we should seek out the draft regulations to be dealt with in the Riigikogu, which have been approved by the Riigikogu's Management Board. Paragraph 48 of this Article speaks very clearly of implementing legislation. It points out that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law 'Acts of application' must justify the necessity of the mandate rule, its purpose, its content and its scope in such a way as to enable the decision to be made on the basis of the power of attorney and the compliance of the proposed implementing act with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This is followed by another text. In short, in the Estonian legal order, this is a clear practice, not an implementing act, but an implementing act means legislation which is subordinate to the law and which, through the mandate given by the legislator, realises the will of a particular law. For example, when the Hunting Act was passed, the Minister for the Environment was given the task of establishing a Hunting Rule. Hunting rules are an implementing act. The question is that if we browse the rather extensive text of the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act, we will not find any implementing acts here. True, in many respects it can be concluded that, if the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act enters into force, the Minister of the Interior, for example, will certainly need to amend the basic regulation of the Population Register by way of terminology. So in the Estonian legal order, implementing acts are not law-level norms, but they are standards by which the government implements the will of the law. It is quite clear that Parliament will in the near future have political choices regarding the law on the implementation of the law on partnership. If this law is enforced, of course, neither the government nor any member of the government can have a different view on technical matters from what is the position of all law-abiding citizens or civil servants: the law that has entered into force must be implemented. There is also a question of the other party; the law on the implementation of the partnership law currently pending in Parliament is attributed an implementing nature. This, too, is unambiguously misleading. The implementing law, as provided for by Estonian legal practice, is a law aimed at identifying transitional problems in the transition from one type of legal relationship to another type of legal relationship. Let's look at the law of property. The private ownership of Soviet times was quite different from the law of property. The law implementing the Law of Property Act provided for how the realization, use and possession of property would take place in the event of the transfer of a specific legal relationship. These are transitional provisions. Once again, if we are to introduce a law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, we will not find any provisions on the transition from one legal relationship phase to another there. I would also point out that § 38 of the code of good law and regulation "Implementing provisions of the draft law amending the law and amending the technical note of the regulation' states: 'The provisions concerning the implementation of the proposed amendments to the draft law, with the exception of the provision to amend or repeal the second law and the provision to enter into force of the draft law, shall be envisaged as additional implementing provisions, if any, in the same draft act or implementing act. ' What do I mean by that? I would like to say that, on the basis of this formal basis of legislation, which the legislator itself has adopted, the legal relationships that the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act implements have nothing to do with the term 'implementing provisions'. This is the creation of new independent legal relationships in the Estonian legal order. It would therefore be more accurate to say that it is not the law implementing the Cohabitation Act, but, figuratively speaking, it is the second part of the Cohabitation Act. Just like the movies: there's a first section, and now a second section has come out. The question is whether this is sound legislation. I must admit that this is not sensible legislation. The aim of the legislation, if we regulate private relations, is for the subjects of law to have clarity. At the moment, it must be acknowledged that good faith people who would like to exercise this right, the subjective rights and legal privileges granted by Parliament and politicians, are undoubtedly in a situation of legal uncertainty. In my opinion, it is certainly important that there is no lack of legal clarity in society. When I take up a editorial or guideline sent by the Chamber of Notaries on the adoption of implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, on how notaries should conclude partnership agreements, I see that the House of Notaries has also highlighted a number of problems that exist because the second section of the so-called Cohabitation Act, which is called the 'Application Act', does not regulate these relations. For example, the period of termination of the partnership agreement is indicated when it is terminated by agreement; the lack of protection of third parties, as well as partners, arising without registration; the fact that the partnership agreement cannot be entered in the register immediately after the conclusion of the contract, which makes it impossible for a notary to check the necessary data from the register when entering into the transaction; the lack of clarity of how to establish the applicable law in the case of the conclusion of a partnership agreement with a person living abroad. The lead for notaries of the Chamber of Notaries is to explain to the partners, i.e. those who have entered into a contract, so that it is reasonable to postpone the conclusion of a partnership agreement until the implementing acts have been adopted. Now, if specific questions are to be taken, I believe I have already answered this question of how I deal with the'responsibility' of both the Minister of Justice and the Government of the Republic for the realisation and implementation of specific new independent legal relationships. At present, we are dealing with a new legal relationship or legal framework that is partly established in the legal order. This large-scale catalogue of independent legal relationships and the amendment of a number of laws given in the so-called Implementation Act has nothing to do with the application of a specific law in the classical sense. We do not find the implementing rules in this law, we find them only insofar as the law on partnership itself is amended. I have to admit, this is a unique situation. You would think that the law of implementation is like a tail, and the head is a subject, or a great animal, is the law of cohabitation itself. The implementing law is larger in size than the Cohabitation Act itself and, paradoxically, the Cohabitation Act itself is amended by the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act. It can be done, but it's pretty amazing legislation. Rather, an implementing act or an implementing act should be merely a technical way of implementing an application as defined in the basic or mother law. The question was specifically about how the government's views on this issue are divided. The right thing is that the government has given up its position on the draft law implementing the pending Law on Partnerships. But it is certainly the responsibility of the government to give Parliament information about the effects of the law, how enforcement is possible and what risks are the risk of enforcing the bill in this form, not from ideological viewpoints, but from a practical perspective. The members of the government therefore drew up their opinions. These should be, I hope, that the Committee on Legal Affairs will discuss this thoroughly for advice on how to proceed. It can be said that as far as substantive points of view are concerned, the Minister for Public Administration, the Minister for Health and Labour and the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed their substantial support for the further processing of the draft Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act. The Minister of Defence, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior did not want to form a specific position on the draft and only pointed out those points where the law on the implementation of the Law on Partnership should be amended or amended. I expressed my personal position in a written statement which was made available to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. I pointed out a number of fundamental problems and expressed my personal position, which did not support this draft in this form. The second question concerned whether the government's failure to give an opinion or to reach political consensus on this matter means somehow the government's withdrawal from responsibility and whether the government has the responsibility for giving implementing legislation already approved by the Riigikogu. My answer is the same as I said last time. What we are doing here is not an implementing law in a material sense. They are independent or very extensive legal relationships; they are by their very nature even greater in the area of regulation than only those governed by the framework law of the Cohabitation Act, i.e. contractual, property and maintenance obligations problems which were the subject of the Act adopted by the previous parliamentary formation. Consequently, in making a political choice, the legislator must make substantive decisions on these independent relations. Does the current Government of the Republic have an agreed political line on these political choices? No, it's not. The political forces in the Government of the Republic differ in their understanding of specific matters. This is not unusual in politics. In the government, Parliament, too, will agree on issues that are jointly supported, but also on those that have different views and perceptions. The most sensible thing is if the public knows clearly about it, and there is no double understanding here. A separate question is, to which the heirs refer in another matter, as if the government had the responsibility somehow to arrange for the second part of this law to be enforced. I couldn't possibly say that. Undoubtedly, because of tactical political considerations, the previous Parliament removed procedural provisions from the Cohabitation Act itself. This cannot in any way result from any binding obligation on the next Parliament or on the government to regulate any legal relationship in one direction or another. If parallels were drawn, the analogous situation could be where one of the parliamentary formations adopts the law that there is progressive income tax in Estonia, but it has to be applied in the next parliamentary term, the next parliamentary formation being related to such a legal obligation. Moreover, it could be argued that people therefore had a subjective right to either pay more (for the most prosperous) or to pay less (for those on lower income). The third problem that the heirs have pointed out is how I will ensure that the Cohabitation Act enters into force with implementing acts on 1 January 2016. The inquiry was indeed made last year, before i. a January 1st. It must be said that now, a few weeks after 1 January, this issue is of a more academic nature. My appeal to Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs was that I called on the Committee on Legal Affairs to postpone the entry into force of the Cohabitation Act in order to avoid a legal uncertainty until the adoption of the implementing law, whatever the legislator has meant by it. This is actually the general logic of implementing laws when we talk about family law, property law or succession law. It will then be possible for the legislator to make political choices and not to create an unclear legal situation with regard to subjects who have been wanted to confer subjective rights. I did indeed propose this in order to avoid a legal indiscretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U151	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Legal clarity is the most important issue at the moment, both with regard to the Cohabitation Act and with regard to its interpretation. I didn't quite understand exactly what your position or proposal was. All right, if this cannot be resolved in the way the public thinks it is right, then how has the government tried to solve this issue? Has the government tried to solve this problem in such a way that there is no conflict with § 14 of the Constitution? You gave an example of graduated income tax. There are two ways that this law should either be repealed or implemented. In any case, in order to ensure legal clarity, you should still have the thick end. How do you ensure that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U153	First of all, I must admit that when we talk about the subjective rights of persons, I have also expressed in my statement to Parliament the view that, in the case of the Cohabitation Act, it is indeed an unprecedented implementing provision, § 26, with which the legal relationship has been created since 1 January, and that the right which the persons have acquired or not is determined by a court, it is the court that is to determine the existence of subjective rights. It must be said, however, that I believe that, from 1 January, a partnership agreement can be concluded on the basis of the Cohabitation Act, but the Cohabitation Act does not apply to relations with the public authority arising from the partnership, as defined by this package of rules contained in the so-called Implementation Act. It is necessary to look at the subjective rights in the basic law of the Cohabitation Act that individuals have been granted in relation to those rights which persons held before 1 January 2016. I asked the experts of the Ministry to examine this and I can stress that, in principle, Estonia's legal order, based on the freedom of contract and using the provisions on partnerships, allows almost all property relationships, which may be important to two people, to be governed by debt-law contracts. Among other things, it is possible for the agreement to regulate mutual maintenance, contributions to it during or at any other time, maintenance after the end of the partnership, the use of common housing during separation. In certain cases, a notarially certified form is required where legal matters concern immovable property. The question now arises as to what is the difference that individuals could not have made in their contractual private relations in the past compared to the period after 1 January. However, the right of a person to communicate with the child of a registered partner or the joint and several liability arising out of transactions cannot be clearly regulated by debt contracts so that it can also be relied upon by the contractual partner. It is certainly not possible for a partnership agreement to be registered in the Population Register or the Register of Property for property matters to be regulated by agreement between the parties. It must be acknowledged that these relationships are not regulated in the adopted Cohabitation Act, but are left at the level of the Implementation Act. My position is unambiguously that it would be reasonable for the legislator to be able to make a choice without delay between the alternatives he is facing. These alternatives were proposed by Members who realised their will to regulate the issues covered by this law in late autumn. There are now a number of options on Parliament's table: repealing these relations, regulating these relations on a couple basis, and regulating these relations as proposed in the implementing law. It is reasonable to identify the will of the political majority without stretches. My call is certainly also to seek greater consensus among the political forces in regulating the various relationships. The search for common ground on such a sensitive subject, which also concerns the rights of individuals, could be more than has been the case so far. If the legislator reaches some positions without delay, they can also be legally realised. That is the way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U154	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U155	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! You have talked in a long and very professional manner about how the law on partnership has created legal confusion. But there's also a way out. The politicians of the EKRE and the Centre Party have initiated a draft on the repeal of the Cohabitation Act. It is now up to the politicians of the IRL whether or not this law will be abolished. I know that Jüri Adams has also expressed his support for this initiative from the Free Party. You're not an official, you're a politician. Are you working hard to get IRL in corporation to help with this bill, or are you not working for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U156	Thank you. First of all, I must congratulate the good questioner on the variety of moral choices. The Members shall bring them down on their own. Members of the Centre Party have been able to express their support for absolutely all philosophical ways of regulating this legal relationship. They have supported the initiation of the Couple Act and the annulment of the Cohabitation Act and, of course, gave their critical votes when adopting the Framework Act on Cohabitation. These are sensitive moral issues, and I understand the individual sentiment of all Members in solving some issues and problems. I'm sure the representatives of the IRL will offer their views. Our position, which our party has adopted, is that Members will decide on such a sensitive moral issue in their own right. It is true that we did not consider it appropriate to support this framework law on partnership, which was adopted by the previous parliamentary assembly. As regards the legal possibility of repealing the Cohabitation Act, the Ministry of Justice will present its analysis to Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs. The legislator is free to regulate different legal relationships, but it must take into account the subjective rights that have arisen. It must also provide solutions on how to deal with legal relationships arising in such a time zone from 1 January to the moment of its hypothetical cancellation, i.e. agreements concluded to what extent they remain valid or valid in full. As Lennart Meri has said, the worst thing is to hide with even greater error. This is certainly a sensible point to be taken into account in these legal relationships, no matter what the issue is. The same applies, for example, to the law of the couple, if it were hypothetically to enter into force. Here is the question of how to regulate the problem of contracts already concluded by special-sex couples. That kind of thing. The Ministry of Justice will certainly provide the legislator with assistance in ensuring the legal clarity of these legal choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U157	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When speaking about the Cohabitation Act, there are also all kinds of warnings that if implementing acts do not enter into force on 1 January, claims against the Estonian state will come. We haven't seen that. But what is this hypothetical situation where everything is really canceled without replacing anything? What claims can be made against the Estonian state? What's the danger? I agree with you that there must be a new solution that incorporates the agreements that have been concluded in the meantime. How much damage can just be caused by cancellation so that we should avoid it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U159	Thank you. This discussion must be taken into account, which has also been highlighted in relation to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It has been referred to as if a complaint from Italian citizens could give rise to certain claims if the partnership had not been realised. It must be acknowledged that the realization of these relations in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is clearly still a matter of political and conceptual choices between countries. In 2009, the Ministry of Justice carried out a very substantial analysis of whether the regulation of these partnerships results from the obligations of the Estonian state, whether constitutional obligations or obligations imposed on us by international law. The answer to this analysis was no. True, a later analysis took the view that the subjective rights of same-sex couples should primarily be regulated in their relations with each other and offered alternatives that were discussed and chosen by politicians over the years. When we talk about these subjective rights and state liability, national responsibility could arise in national law. We have a state liability law. If persons have a subjective right that has subsequently been withdrawn, there is a small number of possibilities that persons can claim damages. Claims can be made when a legislative act has been or has not been given; a person has suffered real damage which he must be able to prove; the damage was caused by a material breach of the obligation of a public authority; there is a causal link between the damage suffered and the obligations of a public authority; the rule underlying the breach is directly applicable. I would like to stress the current case law of the Supreme Court concerning state liability: subjective rights arise not for persons who have a hypothetical right to conclude contracts, but for persons who have realised that right, in fact, who have entered into a contractual relationship. This must be borne in mind in these relations. There is also the principle of legitimate expectations that the Supreme Court has stated. There are four conditions: the law gives the subjective right to the person; the person has begun to realise this right, I have referred to; the change makes the person's situation worse; the persistence of reasonable legal expectations outweighs the public interest for restructuring to take place. Consequently, this must be borne in mind and, as I said, if solutions are sought or ideological choices are made, these aspects must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U160	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U161	Good manager! Thank you, Minister for Justice, for your excellent analysis. But you painted a picture like some lifeless bastard whose ass and tail are huge, but his head is small. My question is what to do now in this situation. If such an animal is already moving, perhaps we are processing this implementing law, which does not exist, what can we do with it? Would it be best to kill the beast and start breeding new ones or to look at something that already exists in the bill, be it the couple or the like? What's your recommendation for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U162	Thank you. What can I say? There are many animals in the world with a small head and a large body. In itself, some of them, including domestic animals, can be very useful. But in answer to the question of what to do in the current situation and what is a recommendation to Parliament, I would like to say that there is now a legal uncertainty that has arisen because of the so-called 'interregnum' and which was somewhat programmed to take this political risk with a view to the future. However, apart from legal clarity, there is also a politically unclear situation where the same political will in Parliament is unidentified. The government will realise and will certainly be able to implement, I think, all the political choices that are now before Parliament. My appropriate advice is that the political forces, without stretching, try to choose between these alternatives the path of political will. It is in itself poor to wait, I imagine, say, a narrow vote on this issue, with such a wild and semi-random outcome. It would be appropriate to seek the political will expressed by the various political forces. The Committee of the Elders of Parliament has also discussed important problems in Parliament's internal life, especially the technical problems of logistical and office work. I think that the room for discussion would be improved by discussing with all the political forces what issues are prepared to regulate and what questions are not and how to do it. I think the worst thing is if we are afraid of an open debate on how to proceed in this situation. There is hardly a person here who says it is true to see political responsibility or a political problem from one angle or another, depending on his or her outlook or perception that this situation is currently healthy in legal terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U163	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U164	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good minister, for an excellent approach. You have proved in your own words what the Free Party has tried to make clear that the previous formation did not allow marriage to be treated as a registered partnership, but this approach still seeks to do so. We think it's wrong. I'll make a little bit of a clarification. Notaries have already signed partnership agreements and they believe that property relationships can be established. To this end, the agreement entered into simply needs to be taken along, it is not possible to enter this new relationship in the register. The Notaries themselves have not seen this problem here. You have highlighted the desire to find a common section. What advice do you give to the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs? We have three drafts in the process. Would it still be wise to process them at the same time in order to find the middle course?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U165	Thank you. There has also been a statement of ideas to unite the drafts. I must admit that it would be paradoxical if, together with the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act, the law on the annulment of the Cohabitation Act was also passed. Then we would legally achieve an absolute ceiling, take out the top do, there's probably nowhere to go from there. Just kidding. But seriously, what did I mean by property relationships? I looked at the subjective rights that people had in regulating their property relationships before the Cohabitation Act came into force on 31 December. Even then, people could have gone to the notary and, indeed, in technical terms, to draw up a complex and long contract in terms of legal logistics, consisting of a whole catalogue, essentially several contracts. But, figuratively speaking, they could have regulated 90% of their civil relations. But there were things that they couldn't have done then, and for which they are now subjective to the law of partnership. This is also my recommendation to the head of Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs, which I repeat: this is a moment where we should not cling to one or the other scheme, which was legally enforced, let us say, an absolute minority of Parliament, but a relative majority who did so in a socially very political atmosphere. I also understand the limited choices that were within the Riigikogu at the time, those who wished to do so and made political choices in order not to regulate these relations at a later date. I certainly do not welcome it when we try to create legal nihilism and attribute to some relationships the character that they do not have or, on the contrary, deny what they actually bring. I can't accept that. Therefore, in my position, which I expressed to Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs, I also stressed that when we talk about the legal construction that has been chosen today to regulate both the partnerships between same-sex couples and the relations between different-sex couples, then do what you do, but we will, figuratively speaking, create a working life in Estonia. Speaking of purely legal logic, this is a situation similar to that in which the law of property has been passed and then a law of exactly the same content has been adopted on certain types of property relations, bearing a different name. This is obviously not a rational situation. In essence, in this extent and to the extent that this implementing law itself does not hide the choice of a technical method of law, that the provisions on marriage include the indication that certain rights, especially those of a property nature, are also granted to those who live in a cohabitation. The ideal choice of which rights to grant in this case, and which ones not, has not been actually passed on. It has been a mechanical legal technique, not an idea logic. The problem of organising the private life of same-sex couples and guaranteeing them fundamental rights arose as a social confrontation. This was precisely because this method was used to regulate these relations. Essentially, this thing was overshadowed as a so-called gender neutral and, secondly, the exact same legal relationship was implemented as in the case of marriage. We are looking at the European countries, how this practice, which concerns the civil law relationship of same-sex couples and the protection of fundamental rights in society, has developed. It has nevertheless evolved so that these relationships are regulated separately, society has held a very serious debate on sensitive issues that require very complex choices, such as the joint adoption of biological children from third parties, etc. At the moment, we have essentially rejected this debate and, as far as the regulation of the rights of these persons is concerned, we have taken a major step from the zero phase to the most liberal legal environment in the European space. What do I mean by that? There are few European countries which also regulate the relationship between couples of different sexes and the regulation of cohabitation, as is the case with marriage. We have taken this step in full. I was referring to adoption here. In fact, many different choices have been made here in different countries; society has felt these choices itself; they have been discussed in the social debate. These have been the choices of society. Perhaps in the coming weeks it will also be in the subject of thinking and should be sought a common ground between the political forces. In this matter, people certainly have a lot of values, these choices are based on moral beliefs, an understanding of the meaning given to the family, the meaning given to people's fundamental rights. These choices must be made meaningfully; they cannot be so that they are on the table as such a mechanical catalogue. I think that there has also been a great deal of controversy, as a result of which I very much want to hope for it, the Committee on Legal Affairs will be able to examine and evaluate these substantive legal relationships individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U166	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I really like the illustrations you're using to explain a number of terms. It's a pleasure to listen to. But I'm asking for an opinion on the statements made by the Chancellor of Justice. A few weeks ago, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise expressed his opinion that the constitutional situation had arisen since 1 January, because if, for example, one of the persons signing the partnership agreement is a foreigner, he does not have the right to a residence permit in Estonia, unlike the person entering the marriage. I'd like to know who's right. You have stated that the Cohabitation Act has not entered into force, but will only enter into force with the entry into force of the implementing legislation, but the Chancellor of Justice seems to have a completely different opinion. In his view, there has been an unconstitutional situation, which he has already been debating in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to ask for your position as to whether or not there has been a constitutional situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U168	Thank you. I admit honestly that I've dealt with it in the so-called long-range view, I'm not really familiar with this chain of arguments. Therefore, when I present my position, I am careful not to say anything rash. However, I must admit that the legal relations concerning relations with public authorities are, in fact, largely enshrined in this so-called implementation law, such as amendments to the Aliens Act. We do not find these rights in the framework law of the Cohabitation Act. This debate comes to this point, and it also concerns family mergers, how a family is defined in society. All European countries themselves have the right to define a family. It is a matter of political choices. The Constitution speaks of family being protected by the state. I would certainly deal with it in such a way that legislation implementing the Law on Partnerships has created an unclear legal situation. The question of whether a constitutional situation has arisen, in my opinion, requires further evaluation. I would not take the view that this is the case mechanically. The Ministry of Justice will be happy to provide Parliament with additional information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U169	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U170	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. One time, I went to see how a long conveyor was assembled with large machines that had to work in the field. Sometimes it went pretty well, but some tractors didn't start. Then they were taken apart and reassembled. When I think about the law of cohabitation, it reminds me of the same process. The law of cohabitation was passed in this house and signed. When I think about the implementing law, I think it means that the Constitution does not work in substance. Someone must be guilty. What do you mean, why did this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U171	The term "guilty" does not deal with the State Liability Act. But the responsibility for implementing legislation or specific law lies with all public authorities, i.e. the authorities of both state and local authorities. One thing is how different relationships can be built for people in a more secure and legal way. I think that when we talk about legal relations with the most universal meaning, one of the worst situations in Estonian society is, I imagine, people's own-life relationships with regard to their property and family and private relations. According to the general logic, penal law provides for what acts are acceptable and for which acts the state reacts rigidly and punitively. It's about society as a whole. There is no doubt that such relations should be of a very stable nature, understandable to members of society and should have a social acceptance of members of society, or, let us say, more modernly, there should be some relative support for the development of these relations, or this support should be sought as a larger common element. The current situation is, in my opinion, the worst and, in some respects, depreciable to society, the changes are partly as if they had entered into force and there is a basic catalogue of alternatives on the table. That is certainly not to be welcomed. This is not about these immediate subjective rights and this lack of legal clarity, but about the wider lack of legal clarity that has been created for society as a whole. That's what worries me the most. I call on Parliament to seek solutions to ensure, in the case of regulation or non-regulation of these relations, a certain understanding that it will not depend on a narrow political majority, figuratively speaking, on a situation where, in any next parliamentary term, a majority of, for example, two votes can achieve some other political understanding, and then these relations will be reorganized in principle again. Parliament cannot wage war on the private rights of members of society; people and society cannot be turned into a tool at the hands of various political initiatives, which are undoubtedly given very idealistic considerations. It is, I think, a fundamental question that we are trying to find a greater common ground in setting up these problems. We recognise the legal reality that has arisen, but we must also look to its surface for the basis on which we can say that we are trying to regulate the relations between people who affect the family, which guarantee fundamental rights, in such a way that they are valid and guarantee people stability.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U172	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There have certainly been quite a number of discussions around the Cohabitation Act and its implementation, which have highlighted a number of points of pain in our society. Let me touch two. One of them is the children of a biological parent when the parent lives with a same-sex partner. This leads to a number of aspects. There are quite a number of such relations in Estonia. The question is, how do children relate to it? The second, perhaps even a bit wider, question is whether the Ministry of Justice is going to deal with the painful issue that emerged in this discussion, that marriage, as such, is not currently in the institutional sense as it was perhaps 20 years ago. Are there any plans for marriage as such more valuable in the legal sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U174	Thank you. How can this be valued in legal terms? I'd be a little skeptical. Indeed, the word 'legal' precludes simple banal appeals. I look forward to the fact that in recent times there have been calls in society that are trying to depreciate or attribute to a marriage as if it were a relic of the 19th century or industrial society, based on a very patriarchal model. I think that when we talk about general logic or understanding, based on what is the family on which it is based and on what the family is for, it is also important to take care of one another, but in reality, the core task of the family is to raise a future generation together, to ensure responsibility for it. I'm not going to slip into the classic definition of canonical law, which is marriage at all. It's still a man-woman alliance to make sure you're jointly fathered and raised children. I certainly welcome the debate on whether we can give more social motivation to marriage. When we talk about this one motivation that marriage has, that spouses can submit a joint tax return, it is an economic element, but I do not think it can be justified by any economic considerations. This can only be justified by the moral choice of society, which has been made through such a tax policy approach. The tax law of the United States of America on compliance with the declaration refers to the family as a unit. In itself, our family is not treated as a unit to this extent. European countries' tax laws are structured differently. But that's definitely something we could discuss. You were interested in the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals and in this situation when there is a couple of same-sex people and one of its members has a biological child or that person has adopted this child alone. As far as adoption procedures are concerned, no one really controls people's, say, fundamental private choices regarding sexual preferences. It wouldn't be the way to move either. Surely the rights of these children must be guaranteed. But how to deal with the fact that same-sex couples jointly adopt third-party children, what kind of assessment to make, I think that this requires a separate ideological choice in society and I do not consider that this issue has not been further analysed. Take, for example, German legal practice. This has also been a serious issue in Germany; political forces have different perceptions. It has been found that there is an opportunity to adopt a particular person, not a couple. This decision was based on the popular understanding of the concept of family, the idea of family in German society. The so-called Christian context for family relations was also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U175	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Justice! Politician Hendrik Allik asked Mikhail Gorbachev, who was once in Tallinn, whether he had enough gunpowder to advance the process. I am now asking you, Mr Minister for Justice, if you have the strength and the reasons to remain in your current reasonable position in the discussions on this issue in the government. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U177	Thank you for that question. I have already said that members of the government have also expressed different philosophical views on how these relations should be regulated on this issue. There are also practical issues arising primarily from the responsibility of ministers in their area of government, how, and if technically, there are things that are feasible or what circumstances need to be taken into account. When it comes to dealing with these matters, the government has respected each other and has also accepted that there are different views and perceptions, just as there are in society, just as there are MEPs. I think it is very important to stress in this debate that people explain their assessments, but it is important that we avoid anger, humiliation and personal insults. Everyone is a living person, we regulate the relations of the living people, and we must avoid hurting someone, not hurting people's beliefs or the people whose rights we are discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U178	Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to clarify one of your statements concerning marriage and perhaps family in general. Is it your view that only people who are physically able to have children have the right to marry and have a family?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U180	Thank you. Absolutely not. I meant the situation when we talk about the purpose of'marriage', when we need to carry out an etymological analysis of what the institution of marriage has come from, what it has been classically as the institute of law, what purpose and purpose it has seen. Of course, all people must have the right to happiness. I think we could quote here the previous President, Arnold Rüütel, who, in my opinion, has rightly said that each person finds his love himself and in a different way. But that certainly doesn't mean I meant to set up some sort of exclusive directory.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U181	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U182	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. Listening to you here today, I have the impression that the current government is characterised by a somewhat shy approach to the law of cohabitation. It reminds me of a schoolgirl who blushes when they talk about a little naughty stuff. In my opinion, this is precisely why we have come to such a situation of legal uncertainty. I liked the parallel with progressive income tax: if one of the formations were to adopt a law on the introduction of progressive income tax, what would the following composition do if there were to be people in the Riigikogu who were not in favour of progressive income tax? You can take some of the toughest poisons to get the pass decision revoked in a second. Exactly the same can be said about the Law on Cohabitation. If you have a firm position, such a situation of legal uncertainty cannot arise. We didn't finally find out what the government and the Minister of Justice were doing to get out of this situation. We have heard a whole series of good recommendations here that Parliament could make, but perhaps if people in Parliament did not know what to do, they would have already turned to you or to anyone to get advice on what they should do. Parliament, or at least some of Parliament, is likely to expect the government to say its firm word on what its position is. I remember a story from World War II. The pope of Rome had thought something about the situation that existed at the time that Joseph Vissarionovich had asked his advisers: "How many battalions does this pope of Rome have? 'The situation is exactly the same here in the Riigikogu. In order to deal with this undisputed situation in some way, the power who has these battalions and who can do so should still take the lead. I'd like to come and help you find out something about yourself, but I'm afraid this is a situation where no one can help you. You'll have to figure it out for yourself eventually.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U183	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U184	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the Minister of Justice. In fact, we understood from your answers that the IRL is in many ways responsible for the way in which this lack of legal clarity has arisen, who does not want to take a very clear position, but who has'swimming' positions. In a situation similar to yours, there was also the Centre Party last year, where, as you said, there were different opinions, more liberal and more conservative positions. But apart from the Congress of the Centre Party, where the leadership of the party was elected, the Centre Party came out of a floating situation on this matter. The Executive Board of the Centre Party adopted a specific decision providing for the annulment of the Cohabitation Act. So we are no longer in a floating position on this issue and are handing it over to IRL. Get out of this fuzzy and fuzzy situation! All the more so since the Minister's replies showed that they are no longer implementing provisions, but are already a draft which substantially changes the basic law. I don't think your silent and foggy political position will do anyone any good here. All the more so as the law came into force on 1 January, but we have seen that there are very few couples who have started to regulate their relationship. So Andres Herkel's fear of huge costs for the taxpayer is unfounded. I am also saying that we are creating legal clarity by repealing the Cohabitation Act, and the damage that arose in Italy is certainly not seen in the current legal context. I would still like to highlight the duplicity of Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. You claim that political positions cannot be taken on this issue, because it is difficult to find a common denominator with the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, and you find it difficult to find the political line that will take this forward. But I would remind you that when you spoke of compensation for the losses of the Soviet occupation and published a press release about it, you were quite brave, then you were not looking for a joint role with the Reform Party and the Social Democrats. I still suggest that the IRL be stronger and more specific on this issue. Then the EKRE, the Centre Party and, if you believe what Jüri Adams said, some of the members of the Free Party's group have the opportunity to abolish this confusing cohabitation law. Legal clarity will then also be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U185	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U186	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am truly sorry, because today's discussion would certainly be much more colourful and also more constructive if the MPs who have initiated the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act were more involved, without wanting to hear any criticism that has been made of both legal clarity and the individual provisions of this law. However, in the presence of the Minister, I was really pleased to see the place when, in the face of Mr Karilaiu's question about the position of IRL, the Minister mentioned that the Centre Party has also expressed almost all possible views on the regulation of this topic in its various steps. The previous composition of Parliament supported the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, and now some of the members signed up to the solution proposed in the Couple Act initiated by the Free Party, and finally the repeal of the Act has been discussed. But contrary to the previous speaker, I want to make it very clear from this board that if there are fundamental moral issues at stake, it is quite natural that there are differences of opinion within the groups, and they must find their output. It is not the case that the party congress prescribes to the representatives of the people how they must make one or the other decision of value. This isn't the way. The granting of freedom here is, in my view, a purely conservative principle that we all deserve to bear in mind. It is a question of how many values we make here when giving people of the same sex a right to cohabitation or regulating some basic relationship, and how different we are faced with questions of a different kind, i.e. how to do all of this in the most intelligent and legal-clear way possible. Here, opinions in the Chamber of Riigikogu are probably divided. I agree with the Minister of Justice in many ways that there are many myths here. He turned them over. I also agree with the fact that implementing legislation is really super-intensive, that it mainly deals with the same regulation of partnership and marriage in different laws, and in some cases it also regulates areas that should not be affected in any way in the implementation of the law on partnership. This is not a classic implementing act, but something else, an addition to the cohabitation act already adopted in the previous composition. But because of legal clarity, I still have to reproach the Minister of Justice and the Ministry. I think that the ministry's business would have been to prevent this confusion with its solution, it should not have been allowed to reach the stage it has reached. Although I understand that there were obviously very important differences of opinion in the coalition as well. This is certainly one of the worst situations that we have reached with the epopööu of the Cohabitation Act, and actually illustrates quite vividly the lack of cooperation that prevails in Estonian politics and also in this Chamber. There would be nothing more appropriate than to start tomorrow's political parties negotiations, with a round table of some kind, whether it is called by the larger political groups of the Riigikogu or by the President of the Riigikogu. That should definitely be done. We probably can't go any further than that. From now on, this sensible political will must be established on how to regulate this area. The Free Party has proposed a solution. Unfortunately, at the end of the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs really led to a hasty vote, and with many political groups, we were interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U187	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U188	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I liked the view of the Minister of Justice that we are currently dealing with one of the worst legal situations that could ever be. Progress from this is a question of choices. But I'm gonna look back a little bit on how we got to that situation. Why has there been a legal situation where one party says that the Law on Partnership has entered into force since 1 January, but the other party says that it has not entered into force and will only enter into force once implementing acts have been adopted? In fact, this whole mess started with the propaganda of one of the parties at a time when Europe fell into a security crisis. This was in March, the year before the Riigikogu elections, when revolutionary developments took place in Ukraine and relations between Russia and Ukraine. Then a coalition party began to make mass propaganda, which there was no need for it, no need for it either in society or in terms of legal matters. As the previous Chancellor of Justice, Mr Jõks, has said, it has been entirely possible to regulate economic relations. This propaganda conflicted with the opinion of the majority of the population when it comes to the questioning of gallups and web portals. The government did not agree to make a referendum and to put the matter to the vote. It was obvious that this survey would clearly show that the Law on Cohabitation did not find the support of the majority of the population. The main problem with the Cohabitation Act, as Mr Reinsalu pointed out, is the definition of family. It's a law that tries to rethink the basic concept of family. We are not talking about exceptions, we are not talking about widowed husbands, we are not talking about honeycomb families, we are talking about families living with grandparents. The basic concept of a family means an alliance between a man and a woman, open to offspring, which must ensure the continuation of the state and the people. If one law is trying to rethink the concept of a family, it is obvious that the spirit and position of the majority in society must be respected in this matter. If 75 to 80% of the population can't be said exactly, but this figure remains there, that clearly opposes the redefinition of the concept of family, then it is not democratic or legally correct, with undemocratic means, to push through a law that creates such a legal collapse or a total disaster in this very Chamber. The key to solving this problem is once again in the hands of one coalition party. A good colleague, Mr Karilaid, turned to the members of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica. Yes, according to the law, every vigilante is free in his or her decisions and choices; he or she decides according to his or her conscience. On the other hand, however, it must be remembered which political party ranks and which programme you have been elected to represent, because voters not only choose an individual, but also choose a political party, they have important world-view principles. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union, who have at least wanted to define themselves as a principled party with a national-conservative world view, have made it very clear that they respect traditional family values, a strong family, which is one of the pillars of society. There are no members of the IRL here right now after Mr Reinsalu. [[Interjection.]] Mr. Seeder is here too. Sorry, my bad! Your party has several MPs sitting here in this hall, and they got here because of their position on the party list. However, they are legally somewhat morally obliged to justify the trust of their constituents and the mandate that has led them to be elected here. Because I doubt how much is... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U189	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U190	... voters who chose candidates for the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance but who, at the same time, strongly advocate a redefinition of the cohabitation law and family concept. Do not go down this slippery path because, judging from the ratings of the grant, it is also extremely important for you to trust your voters, your electro, you must not deceive them. So you have a choice. Do not deceive the Estonian people! Finally, this is a completely pseudo-problem. We are talking about a few hundred people, of whom only a small part has wished to sign a partnership agreement. It is pointless to fight against Estonian society and the Estonian people because of such a problem, so that the mother no longer knows the daughter, the son does not know the father, one is in favour of the homosexual couple, the other is not in favour. Why do that? I think there are far more important problems in Estonia, whether it is emigration, low incomes, the survival of the population, the breakdown of the European Union, mass immigration or the economic situation. These are topics that the government coalition and the Riigikogu should deal with, not whether a homosexual can adopt or whether he or she feels happy and whether he or she feels like a family. These are pseudo-problems that should be forgotten. Let's vote down those implementing acts, and in a year's time, no one will even remember that there was any such crap! We live happily ever after and deal with the main existential problems of the Estonian state and people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U191	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. Would the Minister like to make a statement? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U192	All right. Mr Karilaid spoke of the fact that the Congress of the Centre Party has defined the relationship between man and man and woman on a new basis, and this should also be followed in all politics. It reminded me of a Russian anecdote. There's an agitator lecture on love at the factory. The Czechs are full of people, they're excited to listen. The Agitator says that there are three kinds of love: love between a man and a man that is punishable in the Soviet Union, and love between a man and a woman that everyone knows anyway, but then there is the love of the people for the party, and that is what the next two hours will be about. Mr. Vitsut mentioned that the government is like a shy girl. When you talk about something bad, he blushes and thinks... Well, what he means, we don't know, but I'm sure it's something exciting. I think there's a shy girl in this story, but it's Mr. Savisaar. I was very joking when Mr Savisaar sent a letter to the political forces and said that the cohabitation law had to be abolished and relations between same-sex people had to be regulated in a completely different way. But in what way, the shy girl didn't say, because it would probably have been too bad to write it down. I call on Mrs Loone, Mr Karilaid and others to say perhaps the Centre Party would say that when it comes to the law of annulment, what is the way in which the regulation of relations between same-sex couples is envisaged? If this were explained by the head of the Centre Party, it would be interesting to find out. I think that clarity, mystery and shyness are really important in these matters. But what did I want to say with this parallel when I mentioned the Income Tax Act and the introduction of progressive income tax? Of course, the legislator has the right to make adjustments to the law. On the basis of the legal analogy, I have given an example that the legislator does not define what the progressive levels of income tax will enter into force during the next term, or what the substance is, but simply says that there is a graduated income tax system, and the next parliamentary formation must implement it as it sees fit. I think there's some sort of analogy here. EKRE was worried about the question of giving tips. There is no need to share them. I think that the only person in the political room who has clearly expressed his position, even as a written statement from the Ministry, is I. I have said that, on the basis of the above, I do not support the draft law implementing the Law on Partnerships. Period. As far as the family is concerned, people's private rights are concerned, I call here not to go into the other extreme. We need to understand that there are certain traditional values in society, an understanding of what some legal institutes have been created in society, such as marriage, but surely people also have private relations. We need to calmly discuss how they are guaranteed. When Martin Luther initiated the Reformation, the question was that the Catholic Church had a ban on divorce. Martin Luther's Reformation also sought a solution. True, his solution was such that Protestants, Lutherans, could not divorce marriages, but they could enter into further marriages. This was the solution of the father of Protestantism, which would, to put it mildly, affect a radical attitude toward marriage law. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the most important thing is to reach a position now. The parties have their own positions, and the party members have them too. All parties may have their own moral beliefs, but confusion is the worst opportunity. In the government too, the parties have their clear positions, which is why the government has not taken a position in one direction or the other. This is not because the government parties do not have a position, but because our positions do not overlap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U193	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karilaid, your name was mentioned on the remote. I understand you wish to exercise your right to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U194	The Minister of Justice undoubtedly enriched our picture of the world today; he has already seen Savisaar as a girl. You could have read that letter, though. After all, we proposed that we set up a round table and find a common solution, and if we do not find it, we will abolish the partnership law. These relationships can still be regulated through notaries' offices. So that's the rejoinder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U195	Thank you. There's no more calls. Thank you, everyone! The fifth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U196	Let's go to today's final question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Olga Ivanova, Jaanus Karilaidi, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernitsa and Mailis Repsi concerning the remuneration and activities of bailiffs in Estonia, submitted to the Minister of Justice. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaanus Karilaidi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U197	Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry, which was made on 26 November, is much more friendly in nature and has not caused so much trouble, but there are still problems. On 26 November, MEPs asked the Minister of Justice about the remuneration and activities of bailiffs in Estonia. The nature of the matter is very simple. Compared to 2013, the number of disciplinary proceedings against bailiffs increased significantly in 2014. The main shortcomings found during the monitoring of bailiffs were related to complaints by parties to proceedings, in particular as regards the failure to reply within the deadline and their non-solving, as well as the failure to deliver the decisions of the parties to the proceedings within the deadline. A number of irregularities were also detected in the seizure of property in connection with over-intentions. It was also noted that the detention-free minimum, i.e. that there was no guarantee of a minimum subsistence rate for irregular incomes. A cross-cutting problem was also the failure to register the enforcement proceedings at the end of the enforcement proceedings, the deletion of arrests on the property of the former debtor, and also the failure to notify the former debtor of the termination of the proceedings. We have four questions that I leave to the Minister for Justice who will answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U198	Please, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U199	Ladies and gentlemen, Good heirs! Indeed, this is a substantive and serious problem. I will try to answer the questions thoroughly. First of all, it has been pointed out in the inquiry that in 2014 1000 visits were made to the Ministry of Justice's supervisory and judicial services department in relation to bailiffs. It is true that there are many complaints about bailiffs, but most of them are those where explanations are sought or questions asked, and the Ministry does not intervene on these grounds. For example, they ask what property should be seized first. Unfortunately, the parties to the enforcement proceedings often miss out on the legal possibilities for challenging the activities of the bailiff and instead turn to the administrative supervisor, hoping to get a quicker solution to the problem. However, administrative supervision does not aim to protect subjective rights. In many cases, the Ministry directs individuals to take appropriate remedies. Now specific questions. Question No 1: 'Because of the problems and transgressions of bailiffs in 2014 and the situations outlined above, do you not consider that the Ministry of Justice should not carry out more checks or even improve its supervision of bailiffs in order to avoid such a large number of incidents in the future? " In 2015, officials of the Ministry of Justice visited bailiffs' offices seven times. Disciplinary proceedings were dealt with ten times, including an inspection of the activities of the bailiff named in the inquiry, Kairi Laiõuna, in the case of Reimo Metsa. With a view to harmonising practice, the attention of bailiffs was repeatedly drawn to minor errors in their work and the bailiffs were ordered to remedy shortcomings in their professional activities. Due to the fact that the administrative supervisory powers of both the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators are limited, and given the view that the executive power cannot and must not interfere with substantive justice through supervisory procedures, I consider that there is no need to increase supervision of the activities of bailiffs. The available level of supervision is sufficient to ensure that bailiffs comply with legal requirements and to direct the parties to proceedings to defend their rights in the pre-trial and judicial proceedings provided for in the law. In the case of problems, the monitoring system shall be analysed and, where appropriate, periodic or exceptional monitoring shall be planned. The second question: 'The law states that bailiffs are obliged to execute a judgment. The bailiff must protect the rights of both parties equally in the proceedings. However, it is often the impression that the debtor is treated in the process rather than unequally. How do you consider that the equality of the parties in the process could be enhanced in such a way that both parties' rights are equally protected by the executive? ' The rights and obligations of the parties to enforcement proceedings are laid down in the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the bailiff as executing officer is obliged to immediately take all measures permitted by law to comply with the enforceable title, to collect the information necessary for enforcement proceedings and to clarify their rights and obligations to the parties to enforcement proceedings. The debtor, as parties to enforcement proceedings, shall be made aware of their rights and obligations, in particular when carrying out enforcement proceedings, by means of references in documents drawn up by the bailiff to challenge the performance of the trustee. When examining documents drawn up by a bailiff during the period of regular supervision, ministerial officials have found that they contain references to the rights and obligations of parties to proceedings at least at the level of minimum requirements. A large number of bailiffs have also supplemented the legal acts developed by the Ministry of Justice. Although the law stresses in several provisions the need for a hearing of the claimant, there is no conclusion that the debtor does not have to be heard. While the interest of the claimant is essential in the enforcement procedure, the interests of the debtor must also be taken into account. In the opening of enforcement proceedings, the executor shall base himself on the request of the claimant and shall ensure that his interests are protected. However, the debtor's interests must be taken into account and the debtor should not be burdened more than is necessary in the interests of the recoverer. In order to ensure better transparency for the parties to proceedings as regards the time limits for the performance of bailiffs, the Ministry of Justice has initiated a draft amendment to the law of the bailiff who has now passed the public coordination round and the related amendment to other laws specifying the time limit for dismissal of the debtor's income, provides for an additional deadline for delaying the decision on the debtor's complaint and for a decision on the appeal sent by the court to the bailiff. In addition, we intend to regulate the deadlines for suspending and renewing the enforcement procedure and the prerequisites for closing the enforcement procedure. In conclusion, I believe that the debtor is adequately guaranteed the legal means of actively defending his interests in enforcement proceedings. Due to the nature of the enforcement procedure as a coercive procedure, not all parties to the proceedings can be fully treated as equivalent and inevitably, in the view of the person subject to the proceedings, the procedure may be unpleasant. The third question: 'The Court has stated that the debtor's assets may be seized nearly four times more than the amount of the financial claims. Thus, significantly more assets may be seized than is necessary to satisfy the claim, while most of the seized assets are sold below the market price. What is your position on this situation? Do you think it's fair that the debtor's assets are even quadrupled? ' Under the rules contained in the Code of Enforcement, the bailiff may not seize more of the debtor's assets than is necessary to comply with the recovery order and to cover enforcement costs. In order to protect the interests of the recoverer and to ensure that the claim is effectively upheld, that provision provides for an exception to the possibility of a greater extent of seizure of the debtor's assets where it is not possible otherwise to satisfy the claim of the recoverer. As a result of the above, enforcement proceedings may also arise in situations where the debtor has, in order to ensure the enforcement of the claim, only assets of value that are presumed to exceed the amount of the debt and the amount of the enforcement costs. As a result of the purpose of the enforcement procedure, a greater amount of the debtor's assets must be seized in certain circumstances, since in doing so some of the requirements could not actually be met. The fact that the seized property is finally sold below a possible market price does not depend on the bailiff, is assessed upon the attachment of the property and can be challenged by the parties to the proceedings. The price of the assets sold in the enforcement proceedings depends to a large extent on the nature of the assets and the market situation. The sale of certain assets at a price below the market price is inevitable in some cases, as the procedure would be delayed in anticipation of a better price and would not be in line with the principle of a quick and effective enforcement procedure. On the other hand, I would also like to mention the statistics on the auction environment used by bailiffs, according to which the value of the assets sold increased by EUR 565000 in the auctions held from the beginning of May 2015. Question 4: 'The new law, which will enter into force in 2017, sets new rates of pay for bailiffs. The main objective of the legislative amendment is to increase people's motivation to pay the debt more quickly and to bring the bailiff's remuneration into line with the complexity of the work. What formula was used to calculate the scale? ' The Law on bailiffs and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, which will enter into force in 2017, concern, inter alia, the payment of fees for the opening of enforcement proceedings and the amendment of the regulations on the period for voluntary payment. According to the current regulation, the starting fee for the enforcement procedure is a fixed amount which should cover the initial costs arising from the opening of the enforcement procedure, in particular the costs of the delivery of the initial enforcement notice. The latter costs do not depend on the complexity and timing of the delivery of the performance notice in accordance with the current regulation. Normally, at least half of the basic fee of the bailiff is added to the starting fee for the enforcement proceedings. Under the current regulation, the time limit for voluntary payment is 10 to 30 days and it is possible to extend the time limit beyond 30 days only with the consent of the claimant. Depending on how easy or difficult it is to reach the debtor, the starting fee, together with half the basic rate, can only become chargeable for sending a notification letter under the current regulation. Given the level of the principal remuneration of the bailiff, such regulation is too burdensome and demotivating for the debtor, in particular in cases where the debtor has not previously been aware of the debt, for example in the case of fines imposed by the police, and when he becomes aware of the debt, he is willing and able to pay it immediately. One such case, when a person had wrongly paid a fine several times, was also reflected in the media. The purpose of the regulation on the modification of the starting fee was to ensure that the bailiff's fees for the debtor are kept to a minimum if he has done everything to be able to easily reach him, such as the correct contact details in the registers published, and it is very important to avoid the enforcement procedure. An analysis of the fees of the bailiff prior to the drafting of the draft act showed that the costs incurred by bailiffs for the delivery of the initial declaration of enforceability exceed the level of the starting fee for the enforcement procedure laid down in the current regulation. According to the statistical average, the bailiff pays 38 euros for service of the declaration of enforceability. Therefore, the new rates of charges were set on the basis that, although it is difficult to obtain a person for the purposes of service of a declaration of enforceability, after receipt of the notice, he would use the opportunity to pay the debt within the time limit for voluntary execution, the fee for the opening of the enforcement procedure should cover the costs to the bailiff. In the light of the above considerations, the starting charge for the enforcement procedure, combined with the extension of the minimum imperative time limit for voluntary execution, was rendered dual. The starting fee for the execution procedure was made conditional on whether delivery of the execution notice to the debtor was easy, i.e. less costly or the other way around, complicated and costly. The extension of the minimum period for voluntary payment to 30 days was based on the fact that at least one day's payday should be assumed by the debtor, which in turn creates the assumption that the majority of the debts will be paid within the period of voluntary payment and the enforcement costs incurred by the debtor in the enforcement proceedings will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U200	Thank you. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Justice! I was surprised to hear that sending this letter would cost me or anyone else 38 euros. But that's it. The bailiff is such a strange creature, brought here by the French model, and his salary does not depend on the number of transactions, unlike his French colleagues. But does the activities of a large Estonian bailiff not have too broad limits of consideration? Or are they fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U202	Thank you for that question. In my opinion, the problem is that when we talk about the functioning and reliability of the Estonian economic environment and compare the time spent in enforcement activities with the European average, it turns out that we are back there. That's a problem. When we talk about the objective, the aim must be to have a faster enforcement procedure, of course, given people's fundamental rights. It's really messed up right now. Good-faith people, entrepreneurs who have a legal claim, cannot obtain this claim, whether it be a livelihood or other things. I'm more interested in giving bailiffs some extra tools to the arsenal. One example. I was visited by the head of the Finnish Executive Agency. Finland has no French model, Finland has an executive agency. He said that Finland had a very serious political discussion about data protection in particular, whether bailiffs could collect information about a person's bank account in order to get a real picture of the financial situation. The head of the Finnish Executive Agency explained to me that today a person's address is very virtual. A man lives anywhere in the world, he moves around, but without a bank account or, let's say, a bank card, it's extremely difficult to deal with. That's okay, but it's unlikely. In Finland, bailiffs were given the right to look at bank accounts, to draw up the debtor's profile of how he interacts, where he actually lives, where he has a real job, the efficiency of enforcement improved by severalty percent. One decision! I've asked our Justice Department to analyse this, too. As for the wealth of the fillers, it is not the same as the wealth of lawyers or notaries. Clearly, in poorer, poorer rural areas, we do not say that bailiffs bathe in money. No, far from it. In reality, it is a serious issue in rural areas that fillers have a job in the region, that people are there and that they do it. This is this sustainability problem. Just as money is concentrated in larger cities, so people are concentrated there, so it is easier for fulfillers to make bread there. A separate opera is the collection of maintenance money. I have asked the Ministry to develop additional armaments for bailiffs, based on the practice of other countries. We need to analyse the extent to which it can be implemented. I mention a few things: the satisfaction of the debtor's maintenance claim on his funded pension so that the state does not pay money to the person who is in debt; the granting of the right to see a bank account, which I was talking about; the prohibition of leaving the Schengen zone through Estonia or the prohibition of boarding a ship and an aeroplane on international routes (surprising, but in some countries there is such a method); the suspension of the validity of the identity document; the enhancement of the attachment of the car; the right to assess the actual amount of the debtor's remuneration and to seize it directly from the employer's property. On these proposals, we are talking about people who owe money for their livelihoods. I think that, when the maintenance fund starts working from 1 January next year, we should, in parallel, also use these additional tools to call off characters who do not fulfil their parenting duties. We talked about the family and the responsibility for raising children on the previous item. If the family is broken and the person does not perform his duties, then the state must show its strength to protect the children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U203	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! A number of people have turned to me with concern that some bailiffs could say that some of them are not working very hard to get money from the debtor for the victim. Even if the victim provides information on where the debtor or the cause of the damage works, there will be no prompt sanctions or action. You have already talked about maintenance aid, I will no longer ask about it, although the list of debtors and the amounts they owe to the other party who raises children was worrying. What do you suggest you do in such a situation, and have such concerns reached your ears?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U205	Thank you. I said that when it comes to civil enforcement, it is not in different relationships that these concerns are different. The debtor also feels that he is harmed by the debtor, and the obligation he has to fulfil is too great in comparison with this basic requirement. There have been situations where creditors have said that this thing is bullshit, the fulfiller is too passive. All I can say is that, of course, once the executor has taken the matter into consideration, he cannot exercise so-called selective care. It must comply with these due diligence requirements, take these steps to ensure that the requirement is met. I guess your paradox is encoded in it. We all understand that if there is a small demand, the money received by the executive is very small. But the filler makes choices rationally and logically. He has a greater interest in dealing with higher requirements, and more likely to be met is just as much an interest in dealing with higher standards. This is humane for the model of the liberal profession that we have chosen. The general rules of procedure are here, they have to comply with them. These "smaller bowls" cases also need to be dealt with. If a person feels that he or she does not exercise his or her due diligence but acts selectively, I have a request that he or she address the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry shall analyse this and initiate proceedings if there are reasonable grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U206	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U207	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm wondering if the bailiffs have a good shot or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U208	Thank you. There are executives who have been representatives of this liberal profession from the beginning. But I have to admit that when I met the people of the bailiffs' house, there was concern that the population in certain counties had fallen by nearly 20%, but if there are fewer people, then there is therefore less work on the filler. Sustainability, namely with lower incomes and rapid declines in population in counties, is a problem. But as far as turnover is concerned, this work requires a certain professionalism, skill, such as any specialty requiring legal higher education. Some fluidity is positive in the same way, so younger people can be picked up, but life experience must also be preserved. This issue of fluidity has not been raised as a critical problem. The question is that a number of people working in rural areas say that the situation is difficult and that suddenly they have to serve elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U209	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. The Minister obviously does not want to say anything at the end of the negotiations that do not exist. This item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-18_U210	After the hammer hit, there's a free microphone when there's strength to continue. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 7:31 p.m.
