ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /House print 452/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. So, Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, according to House press number 452, where the statutory valuation of pensions for 2020 is increasing. The above-standard valuation is one step towards fulfilling our promise that in 2021, which means at the end of the government's term of office, the average amount of income will correspond to at least CZK 15,000. Therefore, in the proposed amendment, I propose an increase of CZK 900 on average. I will increase the pensions of all pensioners by a fixed amount in addition to statutory valorisation. Now its amount cannot be accurately determined, it can only be estimated. It will most likely be between 180 and 200 crowns a month. The valuation of a fixed amount relatively more will help low-income pensioners. For example, senior income with a pension of 6,000 per month will increase by 9.3 percent, senior with 18,000 crowns by 6.2 percent. This will help to reduce the risk of the poverty of the elderly, which now threatens almost a third of them, that is, almost a third of those over 65 years of age. However, Valorisation beyond the law will help all pensioners. The standard of living will be increased for all of them regardless of the amount of their pension. The ratio between the average income and wages will rise to 38,8% thanks to the above-standard valuation. Both the Guarantee Social Committee and the Budget Committee recommend that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the bill. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u3	That was Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Budgets. The Committees' resolution was delivered as House prints 452/1 to 452/3. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Roman Sklenák, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As the Minister has already said, the Committee on Social Policy has recommended adopting this press in the proposed text. He dealt with it at his meeting on May 16th. We also dealt with the amendment tabled by Mrs Šafránková, which is likely to be tabled here at second reading. However, the majority of the members of the Social Policy Committee did not identify this proposal. So, as I said, it recommends agreeing to this press in the submitted text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u5	So, I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Kamal Farhan, to inform us of the discussion of the committee proposal and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u6	Thank you for the floor. The Committee on Budgets has discussed the House Press 452 and I would like to inform you of its resolution of 15 May on the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. Following the recapitulation of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Povšík, Mr Farhan's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approve the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll. on Pension Insurance, as amended, the House's press 452 without comment; Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That's what I'm doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u7	Thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which I have three Members enrolled so far. [[There is constant noise in the courtroom.]] So I would be the first to ask for Mrs Pekarová's speech and prepare Mrs Šafránková. Well, Madame, you have the floor. And I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the Member can speak calmly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past days, not only has a report from the European Commission on the conflict of interest between the Prime Minister and others, but also a report that is annual and also about the risks of national reforms, what we have prospects for the future regarding fiscal risks. And in this report by the European Commission, which is relatively brief, there is also point 6 concerning the pension system. [[shows written material]] Perhaps it will not be surprising, because in recent years the text of such a report is always very similar, and so again in this we see that the Czech Republic is underprepared for the ageing of the population, even here it is written directly that the steps or phenomena that we are witnessing, and that ageing population is not carried out by clear police, or let's say by reforms here in this case that would ensure sustainability. I always feel like a spinning wheel, because, of course, it's nothing we don't know, and we say it here repeatedly when discussing any law amendment that concerns pensions. We are repeatedly asking about this at the committee's meeting and now, of course, also within the pension committee that was set up. [[12.20 hours]] However, in this case, the risks are quite clear here, clearly, briefly, but very warnatively, as are institutions such as the European Commission, but a number of others. And experts are simply beating the alarm, and yet there is silence in the Ministry and too little answer to how to address these challenges. As far as the commission is concerned, yes. Sometime in the future, sometime in the fall. The most important thing is really a whole range of cosmetic things, and how to have money on a pension, that's the last thing we have to deal with. The last thing we're really interested in, even if it's two years before the election in the fall. That means there won't be much time left for some really consistent reform. I therefore want to ask the Minister how the Ministry will respond to these reservations, complaints, warnings and suggestions of the European Commission under its direction. Because the law we have here, which we're discussing right now, doesn't really provide a solution to the financing of the system. This concerns only expenditure. And we, as the TOP 09, wish our pensioners as much pension as possible in view of their future. 'Cause it's nice that we're gonna have a party now, but in a few years, those people are still gonna be retired, and there's gonna be more. And there will also be those who are not retired today, working and paying taxes, paying taxes. And what about their pennies? What about their pensions? That doesn't get answers anymore. We have been here many times this week, and mostly last week, we have been discussing that we are unable to finance social services that are very often related to seniors. Seniors need to use them. Seniors depend on them very often. And there are 2 billion crowns missing. In the future, we will be missing tens of billions of crowns to be able to cover our pensions. What will happen to social services at a time when it increases the claim to their needs, when there will be much more of their users? That's a big unknown now, because so far, the big unknown is where we're going to get the money now, in June 2019, to finance these services, let alone look into the future. But the future will come someday. She'll come and be ruthless if we don't do something. The future is not to be dealt with in the future, but it is to be dealt with today. Now that we know we still have some time. But it's five to twelve. I know the secretary doesn't like to hear it, and she's gonna talk about the current pensions again. About how we need to add to the current pensioners. And I say, I really wish them the highest possible pension, but I believe that they, too, want them to retire in the next few years. Because if we're over 80 years old, then the current pensioner, who's sixty-five, is highly likely here when I take the average numbers, the other ten, fifteen, maybe a lot more years will just live. So it's going to be about him, and he's going to be about what we're going to be dealing with here, or virtually. I don't know if we're even gonna do this. I would therefore like to know how sustainability is ensured, how this corresponds to the increase in pensions planned, with the budgetary perspective. And so that we don't see two ministers fighting next year. One will say: Here in this case, we gave a higher pension, so on other things like social services we no longer have, we will not. And the other one is going to say, you have to give because you can't live without it. Without it, these people won't survive. So if it happens here in this case, please remember that it is also because we are really dealing with only individualities here and we are not dealing with the system as a whole, although all the experts recommend it and are clearly right about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u9	There. Next, I will ask Mrs Lucia Šafránková to speak and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, the SPD has repeatedly declared that one of its top priorities is a significant improvement in the income situation and living standards of our seniors, old-age pensioners. We consider the situation of tens to hundreds of thousands of them to be alarming, underrated and, in the long run, essentially unsolved. Therefore, we also consider the government's proposed increase in pensions to be very inadequate, especially in relation to old-age pensioners and especially to the elderly with the lowest income. The planned increase not only in old-age pensions, repeatedly, will hardly cover the rise in consumer price inflation, which is gradually rising even against the last years, including a significant increase in the prices of basic life needs, food, but, above all, housing costs. At present, particularly energy prices, the increase of which is the most significant in recent years, the impact of which will still be fully reflected over time. By the way, for this price increase, the government is largely responsible. In essence, this government's planned increase in pensions means only partial compensation for the increase in the cost of living in which it operates or, rather, the government's inaction has a significant share. The proposed amendment also does not address the complex and degrading situation of thousands of old-age pensioners who are forced to apply for the so-called "monthly'. benefits in material distress, subsistence allowances and housing supplements, respectively. on state social aid benefits in the form of so-called the housing allowance. The number of beneficiaries of this benefit, the housing allowance, has increased three times over the last ten years. And crucially, according to data from the Czech Statistical Office, the average cost of old-age pensioners for housing is close to 30% of their net monthly income and, of course, hundreds of thousands of them are much higher. A fundamental systemic problem in the area of old-age pensions is the ever-increasing income inequality, whether between old-age pensioners themselves or, in particular, between old-age pensioners and employees, respectively. between the development of old-age pensions and wages. The ratio of the average old-age pension to the average wage decreases steadily. From 42,3 % in 2013 to 37,9 % in 2018, as the government itself notes in its proposed amendment. These conditions and, in particular, the long-term and sustained trend of their decline are unacceptable. The whole issue is satisfactorily addressed only by a summary of the fundamental reform steps to which the government does not show willingness and readiness to approach, and it only presents us with cosmetic and non-solving adjustments, the financing of which, moreover, is still taking place at the expense of financing other key areas of social policy. However, the government does not present any systemic solutions, so we must respond to at least the most up-to-date problems. It is not possible, sustainable, fair or bearable, that according to current data of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, approximately 190 000 seniors receive an old-age pension of less than CZK 10,000 per month, and almost 60,000 of our seniors even receive a pension of less than CZK 8,000 per month, with the so-called border. income poverty for an individual living last year amounted to CZK 11 963. And let's not forget the grim fact that more than 90,000 of our seniors are being retired. So the real number of seniors with income below CZK 10,000 is higher than the reported statistics. Above all, the most common cause of these executions are the various loans that the seniors were forced to take because their low retirement pension was not enough to cover the necessary expenses. Given these facts and, above all, the factor of time when any delay in the outlook for at least a slight improvement in living standards is fatal for our older fellow citizens, we need to move much faster, more aggressively and more ambitiously than before in terms of valorisation of old-age pensions. [[12.30 hours]] The proposed amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, should be the first step towards remedying the conditions in which elderly pensioners with the lowest incomes and, in particular, the so-called elderly or single pensioners living in single households are not in a dignified position in society and are often in existential and existential distress, which cannot be accepted. Therefore, I propose for those who will sum up their monthly income from old-age and survivors' pensions if they receive it, even after the government proposed an increase of less than CZK 10,000, an increase in the basic component of the old-age pension on 1 January 2020 by an additional CZK 900, while we are aware of the difficult situation of many disabled pensioners, especially those with a more severe degree of health damage, respectively. those for whom their invalidity pension is the only source of income. We also want to deal with this matter systemically as soon as possible, but we consider it more appropriate than to include it in the amendment to this legislation. As regards the budgetary costs of the proposed measure, it is not just an increase on the part of public expenditure in total and in the overall effects and consequences of this step. On the contrary, the proposal can, on the one hand, stimulate the purchased demand for an incriminating group of old-age pensioners and can therefore mean an increase in the tax revenue of public budgets, particularly in the value added tax or excise tax segment, and at the same time a reduction in the volume of certain social transfers, such as in the field of state social aid or state social support. The proposed measures will result in a one-off increase in the annual expenditure of the State budget for pension benefits in the order of no more than 2 billion compared to the government's proposed adjustment. On the other hand, as has already been said, as a result of this measure, a gradual increase in tax revenue and a reduction in state budget expenditure items in the area of certain social transfers, such as state social assistance or state social support, can also be expected. I therefore beg you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u11	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. From 15 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Josef Kott apologizes. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes for his work for this morning's meeting. And between 15 and 19 o'clock, for reasons of work, Mr Radek Zlesák apologizes. And while I'm at it, another apology has landed here, and it is Mr Rostislav Vyzula, who apologizes from 12.45 until the end of the day for family reasons. I will now ask Mr Tomáš Martínek to speak and Mr Jan Bauer will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to justify the two amendments that I have now made to the system. The first amendment returns the possibility to count part of the study period. Newly it would not be limited by the age of a student at a university, but the total length of the study would be limited according to the standard period of the study of a given study programme. As is the case with accommodation scholarships, limitations on eligibility are introduced only for the first study of the degree of study. This amendment supports lifelong learning. It builds a condition of recognition more fair even for persons who decide to study at a later age. Information on this setting is processed within the data transmitted by information systems of schools, for example, in the combined information of students' registers. Linking with MPSV information systems should therefore not be a bigger problem. There is plenty of time for implementation, because pension applicants who will be subject to this adjustment will not start submitting pension applications for longer periods of time. For this reason, this provision should not have greater budgetary implications in the near future, except for its future implementation. The inclusion of study time as a substitute period is still valid today, but only for studies until 31 December 2009. Persons who have studied in part since 2010 cannot use the replacement period. It is therefore proposed to return to persons the possibility of applying a substitute period for the calculation of the basic percentage of the calculation basis of the percentage for the duration of the study. The second amendment contains: it is proposed to extend the possibility of applying the excluded period to parents who care for children up to 9 years of age. One of the parents will be able to exclude periods of child care up to the age of 9. Age 9 is chosen because by this age there is the greatest difference in income between persons caring for children and others. The parent will thus be able to work part-time for a longer period of time and take care of the child without adversely affecting the amount of the pension when calculating the percentage of the salary. At present, the income of parents caring for one child after his fourth year of life is included in their average lifelong income, which will then be negatively reflected in the amount of caregivers' pensions. The proposal is not discriminatory, both men and women will be able to apply the excluded period. However, the condition is that only one parent can apply the excluded period. The budgetary implications of the proposal will be limited in the first few years, as the possibility of a longer excluded period in the care of the child will concern newly admitted pensions. In the Commission's fair pensions material, the expenditure associated with this measure is estimated at a maximum of 100 million per year in the first years since the introduction. The trend of increasing these expenditures is gradually estimated and the full budgetary impact can be expected according to this material in about 30 years. This adjustment of the pension scheme, which promotes part-time work and a reduction in the difference in the amount of pensions for persons caring for children and others, was also a majority agreement on the Commission for Fair Pensions of the MPSV. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u13	Mr. Jan Bauer is the last to be logged in. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And please the Chamber of Deputies for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary through Mr President, I know that this is still the same song, because we meet both at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and on the floor of the Committee on Social Policy, but let me just say it briefly or repeat it many times in the past. To realize, or perhaps to understand, our entire pension system, which is undoubtedly complex, I don't think it's necessary to know the whole system in detail, but it's good to know some input information. I would like to say, before I finish the question, that if you look at Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the State Budget, you will find that this chapter will mean almost half of the state budget in a very short period of time, and that expenditure is constantly rising. You will also find that around 94 percent of this chapter is called "mandatory spending," and this decision, if approved, also increases. On the other hand, it is clear that in the Czech Republic we currently only have an ongoing system that is complemented by the so-called third pillar. And the Czech population is getting older. It is likely that if the so-called Husákův generation comes into retirement age, it will go into really large losses in tens of billions. And we still don't know what's gonna happen to this system. I am aware that recently the European Commission has been harassing us permanently with some reports, but indeed, if you read into the European Commission report in detail, there is one key and important sentence. And it says: "Your pension system in the Czech Republic is unsustainable." For this reason, I would like to ask you in a fair and fair manner on the premises of this House how, Madam Secretary, you want to maintain this unsustainable system for the future. Because he's unsustainable. No doubt we agree on that. And if we don't actually do something in the future, and I don't see any action yet, it's going to go beyond the last two years when there's a partial surplus in the pension account, really fatal deficits that are likely to be paid at the expense of investment, at the expense of other things that are part of the state budget. So perhaps repeatedly, we are constantly debating this, I raise the question of how you want to maintain this unsustainable system, Madam Secretary through Mr President, for the future. Last but not least, I would also like to say the position of the Civic Democratic Party MEP. We have declared many times that, at a time of economic growth, Czech seniors deserve to participate in this growth, so we do not question this proposal. Of course, it is up to us to discuss whether this increase should be beyond legal valorisation or not, but also through our vote on the Committee on Social Policy, we supported this proposal. On the other hand, we always take advantage of the opportunity to ask, because even this proposal, as you have read in the explanatory report, means a considerable burden on the state budget in the billions of crowns. We always ask how you want to maintain this proposal for raising pensions, but above all, the entire pension system and, above all, finance it. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u15	Thank you, and I am the last one to sign up for the general debate by Mrs Golasowská. Madam, I call on you to perform. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say that, of course, KDU-ČSL also welcomes any increase in pensions for seniors. We tabled several amendments last year, particularly concerning the low pensions of women, also related to widowed pensions and other proposals related to the earlier retirement age for women who raised children. I would like to present today or I would like to introduce you to an amendment concerning women's low pensions. We know that women have an average of CZK 2,000 lower pensions than men. While women who cared for children and raised them often lost their careers at work or the work they liked, but because of their stay on parental leave, with more children than three years longer, they did not enter this place anymore. This, too, is often the reason for low pensions for women, who, although raised by new taxpayers, are then bits on the age of low pensions. We therefore propose that every woman receive 500 crowns for a raised child. It is the appreciation of a woman of companies such as moms and financial improvements so that pensioners do not often have to be humiliated by asking for benefits, as the low amount of their pension is often not enough to cover their needs. Moreover, the pensioner's money thus invested is not spent in so-called tax havens, but will return to the system again in the form of purchases for consumer goods, medicines, etc. This proposal is at least a small improvement for mothers who should not be forgotten by society, but, on the contrary, to thank them for raising children to help improve their only stage of life and thus appreciate their contribution to society. I must point out that this amendment, despite the focus on women, naturally also envisages increasing pensions for men when they were caring for children, so it cannot be said that this amendment is discriminatory, as it might seem to somebody. At the same time, I would like to say that this proposal is only partial and that KDU-ČSL will submit an amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance, which will be more comprehensive. I am still going to sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u17	Thank you and I will now look around the hall to see if there is any further interest in the speech in the general debate. [[Ambassador Brázdil reporting from the bench.]] I don't see anyone. It is. I can see a real point. Yes, so Mr. Mr. Brázdil. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u18	Hello, thank you for your word. I didn't want to delay, but you probably know that we have an integrated rescue system, that there are cops, firemen, and they do because they are state, certain benefits in that sense social, when something happens to them, so they're just taken care of. And it seems very unfair to me that the smallest component, the medical rescue service - by the way, there are fourteen, fourteen counties, fourteen ambulances - so that the one who is the smallest and does the most work, has the largest number of exits, is completely out. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, no one will mind them in the sense that we would do something for them. And among them are people who have back problems, he's been there for 28 years, and they're not just paramedics, maybe even mountain service, he's doing it, he's doing it like a screw, he's doing it basically half his life, and this guy just goes to the pavement in case of health problems. They're not taken care of. Madam Secretary, we've already talked about this, please try to think about it. I think these people deserve it. And each and every one of us here may have a problem on the highway or at home, and he'll be happy to have a juicy one who likes the job, but one who won't be able to stay on the pavement. I'm begging you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u19	So I'll see if anyone else wants to get out so I don't miss anybody. I therefore conclude the general debate and ask for any final words after the general debate. [[Secretary Maláčová signals her consent from the bench.]] You're interested. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u20	Thank you. I would like to respond briefly to those challenges through the President to the sustainability of pensions. You know that the issue of supplementary pension income is crucial to me. You know that there is a consensus that this issue will be discussed in the Commission on Fair Pensions in the autumn, that is, in September of this year, probably if we move forward. We started with lower women's pennies. There it is divided into two areas - future pensioner, current pensioner. We've come to a solution. Then we dealt with the third pillar and its effectiveness - we'll discuss it at the June meeting. Then we talked about early retirement in physically demanding professions, and we're going to do that in the summer, and then we're going to have the big income area. And if you're asking me as a Social Democrat, where we're going to take the funds for the pension system, I'm saying that with the way our economy is going to change, the so-called Industry 4.0 with the coming robotics, digitalization, it's going to have to be adapted to the tax system. It is not possible for most of our country's tax revenues to consist of taxing labor and consumption. And I think that the sustainability of pensions may be in the future, apart from other minor changes that will improve and adapt the system to the 21st century, it will take the big and strong to pay more in taxes. Just because I think numbers are important - our country gives 8 percent of GDP roughly, the European Union average is 12 percent or 11 percent of GDP, so you can see that we are strongly below the average. So much for sustainability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u21	That was Madam Secretary. I am now asking whether Mr Roman Sklenák, as rapporteur, is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u22	Thank you. I listened carefully to the presentation of those amendments by my colleagues and colleagues. Of course, if they join them in a detailed debate, we will deal with them both on the committee and then on the third reading here. But I can already state how I have looked into the system and looked at the paragrafo text that some of them are being processed so that it is not possible to accept them with some responsibility. If we are proposing amendments, we should always make sure that these proposals are legislativeally correct and technically feasible, in addition to the idea of what we want to achieve. The idea that we will add 500 crowns to a woman's pension for each raised child from next January is certainly acceptable, but we must also realise that if we approve this, someone must apply this in practice. And I'm convinced that, basically, this thing is technically impossible to handle by that date on January 1. So much for now, of course, we'll deal with this in the next discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u23	I'll read the apology. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, apologizes for reasons of employment until 13:00 and therefore has the right of priority of Mr Bauer and is reporting. Please. The ODS Club has been designated. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u24	Thank you for the floor. I believe, Madam Secretary, through the President, that this is not the intention that you are not speaking in the general debate, because then, of course, we cannot respond to you anymore. Fortunately, President Stanjura had to leave, so now I'm taking advantage of the right as vice-chairman of the MP's club. I'd like to thank you for your answer. Finally, I understand that your idea of dealing with an unsustainable pension system in the Czech Republic is that you will increase taxes. I understand, I'm sure I don't agree with it, but I finally understood it, and it sounded on the microphone here. I hope your great coalition partner, headed by the Prime Minister, listens to you too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u25	That was the priority right of Mr Bauer, and now, if there is no priority right here, I am opening up a detailed debate, and we are the first to have Mr Lucia Šafránková, Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please. And I merely remind you that the amendments tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u26	Thank you. As I said in the general debate, I would now like to sign up for House Document No. 2895. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u27	Next, I will ask Mr Tomáš Martínek to speak, and Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for those amendments, which I have already justified, the House documents under No. 2952 and 2954. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u29	Thank you. Now, Mrs Golasowská. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which concerned the 500 for mothers for every child and, of course, for fathers who were caring for children. The amendment is read in the system under No. 2953. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u31	Mr Ferjenčík is still reporting for a detailed debate. Is this for a detailed debate? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, my esteemed colleagues, unlike Mr Bauer, I do not have priority rights, so I wanted to at least ask the Minister this way in response to her final words whether social democracy will support our proposal to increase the tax discount on the taxpayer when the amount of labour taxation is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-008-017.u33	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that, in accordance with Section 94 of the Rules of Procedure, during a detailed debate, amendments to the bill will be tabled or amended. other proposals. So I would really ask all Members to abide by the House's Rules of Procedure, or to take your club's place, if you do not prefer as a member of the club, you can easily determine from your centre someone who will have priority rights on behalf, just as the ODS club did, and there is no problem at all to get out. So just to keep up this process, otherwise this debate could go wrong here. So I'm just going to see how it is in the detailed debate, if we have anyone else logged in. I don't see anyone else. So I'm ending the detailed debate and I'm asking for final words, if necessary. You have no interest in final words. We don't have any proposals here to vote on, so I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The next point we're going to discuss is
