ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u1	127. Proposal by Members of Marian Jurečka, Pavla Golasowská, Jan Bartošek, Marek Výborný and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended / House print 439/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 439/1. I would like to ask Mr Marian Jurečka to put the motion in motion. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm going to ask other colleagues and colleagues to remain calm in the hall, transfer any debates to the foyer. [[Noise levels remain high.]] One more time, please calm down! [[The O.R.'s down.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, let me introduce for the KDU-ČSL Group a bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. We took the liberty of imagining a proposal for an amendment to this law, which I would name as a small family pension reform. This proposal seeks to change several parameters of the pension scheme so as to change parameters that have long caused problems in the amount of pensions for old-age pensioners, especially those parents who have properly raised children, i.e. the future current payer of the interim system. At the same time, we are also trying to adjust the parameters relating to young people, students, so that they need to be more motivated to prepare for their future occupations as they are also called for within various strategies within Industry 4.0, but also to adjust the parameters for current working parents so that their care for children is more appreciated not only financially, but for example. even time to have more time to spend with their children. I would, therefore, like to mention some parts of the explanatory report of the amendment to this bill, so that you can get to know this proposal and consider its further support in the context of the discussion of the Chamber of Deputies. When we look at the Czech Republic's top strategic document, namely the Strategic Framework of the Czech Republic 2030, it draws attention to the structurally disadvantageous position of families with children in our company and sets clear directions for redress in its objectives. The social climate towards families should change in order to be universally favorable, and barriers and social pressures towards families should be minimized. Family, parenting, and marriage are to enjoy special legal protection and to be highly appreciated socially. Appropriate socio-economic conditions supporting the good functioning of families are to be set, and they are to focus on the financial provision of the family, the compatibility of work and family and childcare services and seniors, thus enabling them to have enough free time to improve family relations. Families with specific needs should be given particularly good attention. The current concept of family policy also highlights in its objectives the need to ensure appropriate socio-economic conditions to promote the good functioning of families and children's education. They are to focus on the financial provision of the family, the compatibility of work and family and childcare services and seniors or other dependents, thus enabling families to gain enough quality free time to improve family relationships. Particular attention should be paid to families with specific needs, especially incomplete families, families with disabilities, families with three or more children. Due to demographic changes in Czech society, a higher birth rate of the population is to be supported. [[15.30 hours]] For the purpose of support, and now I am going to concrete parametric changes to the amendment of this law, i.e. to support working parents as well as families with specific needs, in order to enable both parents to deal flexibly with their real needs in order to reconcile family and professional life, and according to the actual individual needs, it is proposed that both parents also apply the excluded period up to the 10 years of age of the youngest child they care for. In the current state of the excluded period, only one parent can do so until the youngest child is four years old. [[apply]] At the same time, it is proposed to extend the current supplementary insurance period for parents up to 10 years of age of the youngest child when these parents are caring for three or more children. Up to now, this replacement period has only been valid until the age of four of the youngest child for all children and parents regardless of the number of children raised in the family. The next proposal I will present aims to promote the acquisition of higher qualifications and better preparation for the conditions of today's so often mentioned company 4.0 and subsequently easier application on the labour market, along with benefits for the development of knowledge and innovative economies, with higher wages and with a positive impact on future income of the pension system and public budgets, is therefore proposed to include studies at a university as alternate periods of insurance even after 31 December 1995, when this change unfortunately occurred parametrically, in accordance with the initial intention of the legislator, which thus incorporated this regulation into this law, which was in force before 30 June 1995. This means that people over 18 years of age will study the next six years at universities or higher vocational schools, so that even these people will have this period of study counted into a substitute period of insurance. Another parametric proposal is to allow people to take short-time jobs before retirement, because it is a problem today, when many people in the pre-retirement period 5, 7, 8, 10 years already with regard to their physical condition would quite like to take part-time, but they are worried about going into it mainly because they are afraid of reducing the assessment base for retirement. And we therefore propose that a period of exclusion can be applied to income in the last ten years before retirement so as not to reduce the assessment base for calculating pensions. I think that a lot of people on the labour market, the so-called 55+ group, would help, these people would welcome it, many of them could work economically well with 0.7, 0,8, but they would not go into this measure because they would reduce their calculation base for the amount of income. Furthermore, we propose to help people who do not have the necessary insurance periods when they reach retirement age and therefore propose a reduction in the compulsory insurance period for 10 years to obtain pension rights after they have reached retirement age. This may apply, for example, to mothers with multiple children who lack a substitute period of insurance or to people who lack a part of the period worked. This also applies to many foreigners who work with us and do not come from the EU or from countries with which the Czech Republic has a bilateral agreement. Of course, the pension will then be determined on the basis of the amount of the basic salary and the percentage of the number of years worked. So, of course, these people will have a lower pension, but at least they will have some pension rights. Furthermore, we propose to allow mothers and, of course, in similar cases, fathers who cared for their children instead of their mothers, early retirement before reaching retirement age, for each child raised for one year and without any penalty affecting the amount of their pension. It's a precaution that's been here in the past. I am convinced that this is in a way a fair measure that partly helps not only to motivate, but to compensate parents who, at the moment they care about three, four, five children, properly raise them, so they are more worn out physically, mentally in their lives, and to enable them to retire earlier, as was the case in the past, I think it is a fair measure. And I would like to point out here that this measure does not conflict with the gradual approximation of the retirement age between men and women, which is gradually taking place in our pension system. By uniting the retirement age of men and women at the planned date, compliance with the requirements of European legislation will be fulfilled, and the proposed measure uses the already established early retirement mechanism, taking into account the specific conditions of child education and the evaluation and protection of maternity, the reason for exemption from the penalties otherwise laid down. I think this is a clear explanation for any opposing views that we are introducing a certain inequality between men and women with regard to the age limit of retirement. Furthermore, I would like to touch on the measures relating to widows and widowers. Here I would like to stress that the situation of widows and widowers in the Czech system is really very difficult, because widows and widowers have a monthly CZK 2.5,000 lower pension income than the average pension in the Czech Republic. It is the most endangered group of people, the pensioners we have in the Czech system. We are talking about about 600,000 people living in the Czech Republic. So we would like to propose parametric adjustments - to mitigate the requirement of the deceased spouse's insurance period by five years for entitlement to an old-age pension as conditions for entitlement to a widow's and widow's pension. Furthermore, we propose extending the minimum length of widowing and widowing pensions from one year to five years, because I think that the situation where a widow/widow is entitled to receive that pension for one year in a situation where those people are in a really difficult life situation is not entirely adequate. We propose an approach to the border before an old-age pension for permanent receipt of widows and widows' pensions from four to eight years before reaching retirement age. We also propose an extension of the period after the end of the entitlement, after which the widow's pension can be granted again if the conditions for entitlement are renewed from two to five years. And perhaps the most important thing in this area, we propose an increase in the percentage of the widow's and widow's pensions, from the current 50 per cent to 80 per cent of the pension to which the spouse was or would have been entitled at the time of death. So we're really trying to improve the situation of widows with these parametric adjustments, because how many times that period of one year of entitlement to this pension and 50 percent of the entitlement to what the deceased spouse would originally be entitled to, we're going to find what's in the system today, let's say, very unsocial. We would also like to propose that if the conditions for entitlement to invalidity and widow's or widow's pension are met, the percentage of both pensions shall be paid in full and half the percentage of the other pensions shall be paid if the amount is not in accordance with paragraph 2. One higher. And I am about to close to the end, and I would like to mention here another key proposal that concerns dealing with the consequences, not the causes, because the previous proposals have tried to eliminate the causes of the unfair unequal state that we have today, and now this proposal that we are trying to propose for mothers who are old-age pensioners today, so they are actually trying to address the consequences, which, by often working on short-term jobs, have not had such high incomes, so today they have pensions, which are, again, significantly lower. This group of old-age pensioners - mothers who raised children, on average, has a monthly pension of less than CZK 1,800 compared to the average. Again, it's injustice, discrimination against these moms. I can say that I am alone of five children, we have five children, and my mother's basic pension was calculated about eight years ago at the level of less than CZK 4,000. She raised five children who work fully economically and feed this ongoing system. I give this as a concrete example of how the injustice in absolute numbers can then be harsh. And now for the proposal. We are trying to make it clear in this proposal that, for every raised child, such a mother or father who had a child in exclusive care and raised such a child for at least ten years or more to raise a monthly pension of CZK 500 per month for this raised child. [[15.40 hours]] So much for the most important part of this bill amendment. I would like to ask the House of Honor to consider releasing the amendment to this law for the second reading. We are halfway through the term of office of this Chamber of Deputies. And if, even in my experience, I dare say, if material things fail to catch up in the third election year, in the fourth election year, these things are very difficult to catch up on. We are ready as KDU-ČSL to discuss these parameters. We are aware that, in terms of budgetary implications, the measures we have proposed are not small. But we are ready to have a discussion about which at least minimalist measures, e.g. from the perspective of adjusting some parameters for widows, widowers, so that the length of study in universities should be included in the substitute period and, where appropriate, in order to consider compensation for mothers for the 500 crowns - this seems to be at least the basic matter for discussion, which the House could possibly accept. But at the same time, this bill can be used as a carrier for some outputs from, say, a broad Commission for Fair Pensions, which is working on some proposals. The question is whether this committee will even be able to transform these proposals into a proposal for some big pension reform, and to push for that by the end of this parliamentary term. Therefore, as I said at the outset, I consider this to be a small family pension amendment, which would in many respects remove some of the reasons why, above all, mothers have low pensions, eliminate injustice towards widows and widowers, and appreciate those who have contributed to raising children to the ongoing pillar. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Let's keep going. Before we proceed to the rapporteur's speech, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, namely the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, from 15.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Volný from 15.15 to 21 o'clock due to illness and Mr Řehounek from 15 to 19 o'clock due to illness. Mr. Lubomír Metnar apologizes further because of his planned foreign trip, and Mr. Ondřej Veselý apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day. We now have the floor of the rapporteur, Mrs Lenka Dražilová. And I'm gonna ask her for her intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u4	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 29th 3. 2019 was sent to Members by the House Press 439 - Amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. This is a proposal from the Marian Jurečka Group of Members and others to issue a law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. The Government has discussed the amendment to the Act on 15 April this year and has taken a disagreeable position on this proposal. Since the individual proposals have already been justified, I will not repeat them here again, they have been presented in detail by the petitioner. So I would like to say that the petitioners estimate an impact of 35 billion. CZK annually, when they rely on compensation in the form of reduced entitlement to the payment of social benefits, however, somehow did not demonstrate the method of calculating the financial scope, they did not properly justify the figures and did not propose resources from which the expected deficit could be covered. However, it is clear that the proposed adjustments will have a far greater impact than stated, and the government estimates them at 140 billion. Crowns. The amendment submitted does not contain any transitional provisions. It is therefore unclear how the pensions currently paid would be assessed. If changes were to be made immediately, this would mean a new assessment of all pensions paid and thus millions of new decisions. The proposal lacks a wider demonstration of the newly established institutes and there are no contradictions between the various provisions of the law and the proposed amendments. Contrary to the current attempt to enforce the principles of equal treatment between men and women in the field of social security, the proposed amendment promotes quite opposite principles. The effectiveness of the amendment as a whole is proposed for the first day of the seventh calendar month following its publication, which is far from sufficient to implement all the above changes. Training of workers and ensuring a timely review of the amount of all pensions currently paid. [[Some Members are discussing in a noisy way.]] It has already been said here, and I have to repeat this, for the purpose of interparty discussion of systemic interventions by the various partial changes to the pension system, the Commission for Fair Pensions has been created by the Government's programming declaration. It would therefore be appropriate for all proposed changes to be based on it, thereby ensuring that they are systemic. The proposed measures deny the basic principles of pension insurance and the proposals for individual changes are not interlinked, so the proposal can be overall -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u5	I will interrupt you, Madame, and ask the House for peace! It would not be appropriate for us to have a news report in such a noise. And please, who discusses a subject other than pension insurance, so fundamentally in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u6	Thank you, too. I'm gonna repeat this one more time. The proposed measures deny the basic principles of pension insurance and the proposals for individual changes are not interlinked. The proposal can thus be classified as non-conceptual in general. I also consider the fact that the bill introduces unequal treatment in a number of places as a fundamental problem, and therefore it is highly likely that the relevant provisions would be successfully challenged by the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposed proposal shows a number of shortcomings in legislative technical terms as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her first reading, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, for her intelligence report. I am opening a debate in which my colleague Dražilová is the first to sign up. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, Madame, now your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u8	As I have already said in my report, the bill significantly interferes with the pension scheme, as it fundamentally changes the range of insured persons, the conditions for entitlement to old-age and survivors' pensions, and the way in which they are calculated, in contrast to the existing legislation, it also interferes with raising pensions. I therefore believe that changes to such a conceptual nature should always be discussed in advance in detail in order to achieve a broad social consensus. On this point, as I have already said, the Commission on Fair Pensions, which is intended to serve as a platform for such discussions on the pension system as a whole and on its partial changes, with all member and senator clubs represented in this committee. I would like to point out that the chosen way of presenting the bill, i.e. as a parliamentary proposal, does not give an opportunity for a wider expert discussion and therefore for its thorough assessment and consideration of all the effects. For the reasons set out above, I propose that this press be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u9	Thank you. Now, Mrs Šafránková. I noted the motion to dismiss. And a colleague of Španěl will prepare himself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u10	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act for the SPD, which aims to improve the status of parents and families in the area of pensions. That's a step in the right direction. By coincidence, the SPD presented its family's key project in the first place today. From our point of view, populative and national measures are absolutely essential steps not only for the sustainability of our pension and social system itself, but for the sustainable development of the entire society and the state at all. These are far from just direct financial instruments and financial measures. We must support a traditional multigenerational family, parenthood, motherhood, fatherhood and marriage, so to speak, across different areas of public policy and public life. These funds certainly include the proposed modification of the so-called excluded and substitute parental periods for pension insurance purposes. However, it must not, of course, remain just at this step, both in the area of pensions, where the issue of the lowest pensions, disability pensions, housing and health care costs needs to be addressed, as well as in a broader context, when we need to start making the Czech legal and social environment much more helpful to our families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u11	Thank you, Mrs Šafránková. Now, a colleague of the Španěl, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad the family debate is finally over, on pensions and so on. I personally expected more debaters to be logged in here. Maybe you're asking why I'm still after my colleague Šafránková. It's because it's really a subject that I'm really interested in, and that's why I'm also allowed to say something of my own, even if it's just in general. Our SPD movement has long drawn attention to the fact that family and its effective support must be an absolute state priority. This serious issue has long deserved extensive debate across political parties as well as pension reform. The situation of many young families today is literally critical from the perspective of society's development and future demographic curves. Young ones delay marriages, are afraid to start a family and have children, often split up after the first problems that come. First of all, they can't reach the mortgages, and then they can't reach the housing. If the situation of young people is to be improved, the state needs to take some basic steps. Firstly, cheap or even interest-free loans must be granted to all who decide to start a family. Secondly, it is necessary to start building starting apartments for young families with children in the form of state subsidies directly to municipalities that would take care of this construction. Furthermore, support for cooperative construction is a good solution. Following the starting apartments it is necessary to build low-cost units for seniors. This would eventually free up apartments that especially lonely older people are no longer able to finance otherwise than by reciteing everything else, including food. It's got single mothers on it anyway. However, good state policy could lead to a significant decline in these policies over time. Tax discounts are the next right step, because the discount always applies only to those who work honestly. The real estate transfer tax must be abolished. On the contrary, the introduction of the deposit fee to the Land Register of Real Estate of CZK 2,000 was completely unnecessary, brutal, anti-family measures. We have to invest in the future of our children, and thus in our old age. We can give out, but we just have to have the means, and only a functioning company can do that. It would be much longer to debate this, but I don't want to delay. For our movement, I can promise to promote and support, on the one hand, the measures that I have put forward here, but also any other law that supports young families with children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u13	Thank you. That was Mr Španěl's speech. Now Mr. Výborný, then colleague Jurečka and then colleague Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I do not want to repeat the general content that Marian Jurečka here described very brilliantly and introduced you to him. I would just like to point out once again that in the Czech Republic working families with children are unfortunately one of the most discriminated groups. Ironically, the more children's parents have, the more they have to work, and if you look at the income curve, it's going down in a forceful way. At a time when the family has two or three children, her income is often lower than that of elderly people, for example. I am convinced, and therefore KDU-ČSL has long tried to change the attitude of society towards families with children, they are the most disadvantaged families in the pension system. We've been putting these measures on the table repeatedly. When you project when the pension insurance law was opened here, some of the measures that are in this comprehensive amendment were included in the package of some kind of miniature pension reform, we tried to get these measures into the amendments under discussion. Unfortunately, we failed repeatedly. When you look at this simple graph, here you see the difference, for example, between women's and men's pensions. [[shows]] The difference is about 2,000 crowns. And it's only because moms have devoted part of their productive age to raising children, i.e. those who are holding the ongoing system today. Let us remember that, by the way, there is also the future of sustainability of public finances here in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, the numbers are relentless. We're moving today, when we take the birth rate to one woman, somewhere at 1.7 child level, we'd need more than two children per woman to make the whole system sustainable. Unfortunately, such a high birth rate is nowhere in Europe. And we're not in a bad place yet. When we look at Europe's rankings, we're roughly in fifth place, which aren't bad numbers. However, it's still not enough. I think it's parents, families with children who deserve our support. I would also like to stress that some of the measures in this House are even budgetaryly neutral, or they will have implications for the state budget in twenty or more years, in the order of a few billions a year. This concerns, for example, support for the accounting of study time and so on. There are measures that are not budgetaryly dramatic. Then, of course, there are measures that are costly. We're not denying that. I would disagree a little bit with the government's dissenting position, because according to our calculations, this is far from as dramatic as the government says, as the Minister of Finance says. I have repeatedly wanted to discuss these proposals with the Prime Minister, but unfortunately this meeting has not yet been done because of us. We are really ready, and I would like to ask the House, because I believe that you all care about families, we all care about our future, you all care about the workers - I want to underline that, we are talking about working families, working parents. And let's talk about which of these measures are unfortunately unacceptable at the moment. We're willing to make strong concessions. But we are also convinced that some of the measures that are equally important to us - a colleague of Marian Jurečka here, for example, spoke about the widowing pensions. Ask really in the field about the feedback. These are often very dramatic and tragic social situations. We can help there. And it won't ruin the state budget. I can also assure the YES movement, a social democracy, where I would expect a 100% understanding that these are not really things that would ruin the state budget. We are prepared for these, I say, strong concessions, we are ready to discuss them at second reading and I believe that not only with the YES movement, but with social democracy and other parties here in the Chamber of Deputies, we agree. I would like to ask you to let this House press go into second reading. We are certainly prepared to propose an extended negotiation period, so that there is time for discussion in the committees, and I believe that we all want to help this goal, namely to help families and in the finals to help the sustainability of ongoing funding. It's not just a KDU-ČSL thing, but it's a matter for all of us. Thank you very much for your helpfulness and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u15	Thank you, Mr Excellent. Before we continue, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr David Kasal from 17.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work. My colleague Jurečka will no longer complete the performance. In that case, Mr Roman Sklenák has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u16	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I must disappoint Prime Minister Výborný. As a social democracy, we would certainly agree that we want to support families with children, and that is what we do. We certainly want to appreciate the women who raised the children and many others that have been said here. But you know - I'm talking towards the submitters - it's not enough to stand up to the microphone here and talk about it in a flaming way, but you have to somehow convert it into that legislative form. And, please, if I could have a word with you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u17	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I will ask the House for peace, from the left across the centre to the right. And just wait a little while longer, they'll calm down colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And unfortunately, I have to say that what is presented here as the press that we are currently discussing is legislation incredibly sloppy. That's right, don't be mad at me, co-workers and co-workers. Only if you look at the sentence that is mentioned there as one of many, that the percentage of retirement pension increases by CZK 500 per month for each raised child, if the insured woman. So anyone with a little bit of legal awareness knows that it's not possible to write laws like that. There's gender equality here, and I can't distinguish between women and men in the law. And there are many such legislative shortcomings. And as the rapporteur said, I believe that if this press had been approved and reached the Constitutional Court, it simply could not stand. So for this reason, for the sake of legislative implementation, I am joining the rapporteur and I also propose a motion for rejection. And if we want to support families with children and we want to support those who raised children, we need to write the proposals with some responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u19	Okay. Mr Bauer now, then Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me really a few short, in my opinion objective remarks. I do not want to comment on the quality of the proposal, no way, but as a member of the pension board, allow me to make a few observations. I've done my job, and I'm certainly not the only one to record and study how pension committees work and pension committees work, either with our closest neighbors or anywhere else in the world. And I must say that the model we have chosen in the Czech Republic, that is, a 44-member committee, or a 45-member committee, where the committee really often faces and behaves in a way that is rather a plejada of views, is not the entirely optimal structure. And just in England, two or three people just made up the retirement committee. And mostly everywhere else in the world, they split it up. This means that they have put together a team of experts of eight, nine, ten members who have gathered together and evaluated the current situation for those politicians and presented an alternative solution, whether simply left-wing, central or right-wing. And then those politicians, mostly represented by all the political parties, decided what kind of option they'd be leaning towards. For this reason, I believe that addressing the parameters of the pension system in the Czech Republic without the elementary agreement of the majority or relevant political parties is not entirely good. Unfortunately, my year-and-a-half experience is from the current Czech pension commission, where we did not get to my sadness about marginal matters - I am not saying that they are not important, but marginal things that did not and do not have any major influence on the solution of the fatal problems of the pension system in the Czech Republic, we have not yet got to that point, but at the last meeting we talked about whether we will divide the first pillar into the so-called zero and the first one - you cannot be surprised that some political parties, Members or groups of Members are not waiting for the results of the pension commission that are not yet coming. And I fear that they will not pass the Coalition Council by the end of this parliamentary term, they will not pass through this government, and they will not be drawn up in paragrafo. For this reason, I am not surprised that, as KDU-ČSL representatives, I am not surprised that, as representatives of the SPD, but I assume that other political entities or groups of Members will also submit their amendments or other proposals that will address the fatal problems that await us in decades under the pension system. Personally, I find it very pleasant that KDU-ČSL comes with one of the weak points of the pension system in the Czech Republic, which is the nature and support of families in the Czech Republic. And although I think that really big things within pensions should be based on the consensus of most political actors, I think it is not appropriate for this proposal to be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to send a message to your colleague Roman Sklenák. If he quoted one part of the paragraph proposed by the amendment to this law and said it was legislatively imperfect, then I quote the whole thing to him to make it sound. Paragraph 67b states: "The percentage of the retirement pension is increased by CZK 500 per month (a) for each raised child, if the insured person is a woman, or (b) for each raised child in the exclusive care of a man. " And I mentioned here at the outset in my reasoning for the parametric adjustments that we were dealing with the issue of equality between men and women. And allow me to quote to you: "This is not, therefore, discrimination, also in accordance with the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (2) under which special measures aimed at the protection of maternity will not be regarded as discrimination.' Neither of us here can say that we are constitutional lawyers, experts. But I think we can clearly say here that our legal system already knows the measures where we can say that some things are not 100% equal between men and women, because there is some reason to protect motherhood. And I think we've built this area here just to adjust some specific things here. And if I keep doing that section 67b, there's a paragraph. 2 which says: "The condition of child education under the preceding paragraph is fulfilled if the insured person personally cares for or cares for the child at the age of at least 10 years. However, if the insured person has taken up the child's education after the eighth year of his age, the condition of the child's education is fulfilled if the insured person personally cares for or cares for the child under the age of at least five years of age. However, this does not apply if the insured person has stopped caring for the child before reaching the age of the child.' So it's clear here that we're talking about whether it's a man or a woman completely equal. So I would like so much to disprove one particular thing that has been mentioned here from the point of view of imperfection. And I am aware that opposition parties always have it worse, more demanding in terms of preparing legislative complex proposals, such as, for example, an amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance. But also from my experience as a former ministerial servant, I want to say that when an opposition MP came - and now I will take a particular example of, for example, a former colleague, today's Senator Herbert Pavera - he came and said: I have a proposal here. So I went to meet him at the second reading and I said to my department of legislative law: go and help this proposal to make it legal. And such a proposal by the opposition Member has been accepted here. And I'm wondering what the problem is to show good faith here if we really want to solve problems. If the password doesn't apply here, it's looking for ways that don't want to, it's looking for reasons. And when I look at this government's programming statement, I open the first page on page 1 - what are the strategic guidelines? We want pension reform. We want concrete steps without lengthy and barren discussions. - We're halfway through this House's term of office. Please, when do we want to do this? Are we still gonna talk about this? [[16.10 hours]] We are aware that many parameters here are financially demanding. I'm ready to discuss them. The percentage of widows and widowers proposed by us may not be 80 per cent, but may be 60 per cent. But it's gonna be some kind of improvement. We can discuss whether the reward of a mother for one child is to be CZK 500 a month, it can be a compromise of 250, but it will be a shift. There are proposals that do not have an immediate impact on the state budget for the next decade. But do we really want to send a clear message to young people that the study period will not be counted as a substitute for calculating future retirement? Is that the kind of company we want to live in? Does that seem fair to us? Is it fair for us to look widows in the eye and say "you have one year and 50 percent and we don't care more"? You find it fair to mothers who raised children, and those entitled to an old-age pension had to work, these are not people who would have children to receive social benefits - it seems fair to you to tell these people "that you have about CZK 2,000 a month lower pension" is okay? So let me give you some specific examples here, let's try to think about the space here. We can extend the time and time to discuss second reading on committees, and we can talk about the fact that we can parametrically rewrite this bill here. We can say from these twelve proposals, specific points, examples, to modify the parameters of this law, that we will only do three or four, but we will do something. And I'm afraid we're not going to do anything like that in this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u23	I thank Mr Jurečka. I have a point of fact here. With priority right, my colleague Výborný, but first a factual point, Mr President. Mr Roman Sklenák, with a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u24	Mr Jurečka, through the President, you are breaking into an open door. I do not know if you communicate with each other at the club, Members and Members, but a certain Member of your club is Mrs Golasowská and she is a member of the Commission for Fair Pensions. We meet very regularly and discuss various suggestions and, among other things, those you are talking about, and we look very carefully and honestly for ways so that those women who raised children are additionally bonified. But it must be legislative, and it must also be technically feasible. You must consider what data is available to the Czech Social Security Administration, how it can technically be done and so on. And we've been discussing everything for hours and hours. Which is why I think that's the way. Not that you're gonna put a suggestion in here, and now you're gonna say, "Please use it as a racket," and we can put all the designs on it. On the contrary, I think the way is better when we're dealing with an organ like that committee. And when we get there, and we discuss everything, we'll bring it to Parliament. And otherwise, there's really no point in leading a legal disputation here over your proposal, but I'll refer you to the government's position, where on several sides you have all these legislative reservations summorized, and I think very cleverly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. President Výborný applied with priority rights, but unfortunately, my colleague Jurečka made five further factual points. So now, Mrs Golasowská factual comment, then Mr Bauer, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Venhoda and with priority rights, Mr Výborný is waiting. Now, Mrs. Golasowská. You have your word. And I'm taking your time, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Sklenák, through Mr President, it is true that we are sitting on the pension committee, sitting there for about a year and a half and debating, and we have not reached anything. I have to support my colleague Marian Jurečka here because, in fact, in cooperation with him, we have put together this proposal, because to this day the government has not been able to present anything at all. And the way I think it's gonna be, we're not gonna submit anything by the end of the term. And we have been making some proposals here last year to improve the situation of women with low pensions, to improve the situation of widows who are watching us now and waiting for their financial situation to improve, and this improvement really does not come from your side. So I'm very opposed to doing nothing. On the contrary, we do, and I'm curious about what you're going to put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Bauer's point of view now. A colleague, Bělobrádek, will prepare himself with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again an impartial one, and I think also an objective remark as a participant in these negotiations. I have already twice accused the esteemed Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that the big things that have a major impact on the parameters of the pension system in the Czech Republic, which is raising pensions last year and raising pensions this year, undoubtedly it is a change of parameters, are not presented to the pension committee, that they simply agree on the coalition board themselves, the government, and then they come to the House and agree to it. And it seemed to me last year, but also this year, to be able to express itself on these fundamental matters, since we already have the Commission for Fair Pensions. I was told they wouldn't, they wouldn't go there. Therefore, although I am not a petitioner of this proposal, I am sympathetic, but I did not process it, it seems hypocritical if some things are not given to the pension committee by this government, which are simply proposals for raising pensions, and the petitioners, which is KDU-ČSL, blame that they have not been submitted to the pension committee. It's not an entirely objective argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u29	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Now, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared - also with factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I was in the last Sobotkův government. That's where we talked about pension reform. KDU-ČSL introduced its pension reform, which is comprehensive, already in 2011. We modified it before the 2017 elections, we updated it. It's freely available. And the only thing that always happens is that these ideas that are public, we present them, we put them on some committee, there comes something out of it, something gets stolen, and that's it. But that comprehensive pension reform is here, it's just the truth. And even experts appreciate that besides the one with the straight pension, there's another one that has an alternative that aims to evaluate how many payers you bring into the system. And note two. Yes, if you don't want to do something and you don't want to grieve, do a committee or make a round table. And the point is, it's clear how it ends. It's not gonna happen again, and it's gonna blow somewhere, and there's not gonna be any pension reform in the finals. The Prime Minister promised her a few years ago, he never submitted anything. We have never seen any comprehensive pension reform from social democracy either. We're offering something that's real, what's concrete, and either you can actually accept it or you can't. But those people are waiting for it, because it's true that pension reform should have been here by now, and when we canceled the things that Nečasův' government suggested, we should have come up with an alternative. It was always like this: we'll have better suggestions, we'll leave the opposition ones. And it always turns out that the opposition kills themselves, even if they're good, and the coalition doesn't bring anything. And that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Venhoda will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was moved by the technical debate to come out here briefly. It is quite obvious that the YES movement and the ČSSD are overreacting over who will have the greatest credit for increasing pensions. Although this has increased the House by a unanimous vote, you will, of course, boast anyway. And now you don't want to let another slug on this playground that would want the credit, too, so you're just gonna reject the proposal because it was submitted by the People's Party. If the communists did the exact same thing, you'd say you'd fix it at second reading. Because they're not in the coalition, you say there are technical errors, and that's why it has to be rejected. I think everyone here knows. Well, at least don't fool the public into saying you have any substantive objections, the fact is that you didn't bring it up, and you want to brag about it. And now there's gonna be people who are only ten years old, next time it's gonna be somebody else. But in fact, there is no substantive argument here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Venhoda, Mr Marek will be prepared Výborný. Everyone with factual points. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I've been listening very carefully here, and I'm only taking the liberty of reacting briefly. The government of the ANO movement increases pensions as never before, when it was also under the KDU-ČSL. Today, you are proposing to increase the cost of the state budget in the order of higher tens of billions, and tomorrow you will not be ashamed to speak with one breath about the state budget deficit, and you will criticize the government of the ANO movement for that. How do I rate it? All I can see here is that the fight for KDU-ČSL Vice-President is on fire.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Marek Výborný, then Marian Jurečka, Roman Sklenák, Dominik Feri and Zdeněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u36	Thank you for the word -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u37	I'm not measuring your time yet, Mr. Chairman, I know I don't want to rob you. But I ask the House for peace! Let everyone express their position in that factual remark. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So to my foreman, through you. I must assure you that there is no struggle for the post of Vice-President of KDU-ČSL, that is one thing. But I would like, by your means, to a colleague of Sklenák. I would beg you very much, my colleague, to stay out of the communication of the KDU-ČSL club. This is our business, and we are communicating that, of course, we are moving all of these things, including reports from the negotiations of your pension committee, which has not yet reached anything. That's what needs to be said. And I like the alibi you're just coming up with. In a situation where there's a proposal on the table, you come in and say, "Everything's legislatively wrong and so on." I would very much like you not to evaluate the legislative quality of these proposals, because - and this is the thing that we can work on - we said let's do it in the second reading, let's talk about the individual parameters, and of course we can work with all that. But to come and alibistically say no, no, no, that's wrong, we have to throw it off the table - that really is totally unacceptable for us. I'm stressing again, we're talking about the families, we're talking about the support of the moms, the women, and all the others, as we have here. And I feel that social democracy is not at all concerned with what we want in these proposals at the moment. And the famous retirement board. See how many years you've been in charge of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And six months ago, the Minister of Social Affairs made it clear that she doesn't need any pension reform, and she doesn't want it to be necessary, that we're gonna make some little parametric changes, we're gonna pull some cherries out of it on the cake, and it's done. So I would like to make it clear here that the committee led by your secretary unfortunately does not have any ambition at least during this parliamentary term. That is why we come up with proposals such as this, but also other political parties, because we believe that we can no longer wait for anything. Indeed, those families, parents deserve it, and, as you can see, social democracy, unfortunately, doesn't give a damn about those families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Roman Sklenák will prepare for a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u40	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of reacting here to that remark about the slugs. Okay, first of all, if I were to use some rural agricultural analogy, so when we're talking about family and pensions, please, please, at least title us storks already. We'd be happy to bring the kids. This is also what this proposal is about, in order to strengthen the demographic impact on future interim budgets, on interim systems, so that there is a greater number of payers in the future. But please, there's one crucial thing I can do. We are blamed here from several previous speeches that the proposal is not legislatively of all quality, there are no transitional provisions, unequal treatment - I have refuted that here. And then there were mentioned several times - and this is a question of financial implications. Well, if this government and the committee that sits here today for unequal pensions can prepare a proposal that doesn't have financial implications for the budget, then you're brilliant. And then I'll suggest who's behind it to be the Nobelův Prize winner. Because it is simply impossible to do such a reform without any impact on the state budget. Because they'll always have to balance the money sometime, balance it out. So I'm going back to the merit, to the essence. If we are talking about legislative matters, transitional provisions, some minor accompanyingness, there is room for this, if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is helpful, to amend these matters together in the framework of committee discussions to the second reading. Or at least let us agree in this discussion that we will take three or four small measures that will not have a major impact on the state budget, but will help to fine-tune some things and some injustices in this system. And I just want to remind you of one more thing. I remember quite vividly at the coalition council meeting about four years ago when Pavel Bělobrádek and Bohuslav Sobotka had to convince Andrej Babiš when we were arguing about the amount in raising pensions. When did Andrej Babiš explain to us that it would not increase -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u41	Your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u42	- there's no money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u43	So now Mr Roman Sklenák's factual comment, Dominik Feri and Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u44	Thank you. So here, just a moment ago, there was a sentence that I think should be recorded because it is very remarkable. On the ground of the legislature, the President of one of the parliamentary parties will say to his colleague: "I would like you not to evaluate the legislative quality of the proposal." Seriously? Are you serious? That we should pass laws and not evaluate their legislative quality? In the Chamber of Deputies? Seriously, Mr Ferjenčík through the President? I mean, what you're saying is objectively untrue. The last point we were discussing here was the parliamentary motion, and I stood here and supported it. Last week, I believe, we finally approved Mrs Kovářová's proposal, which is from the opposition. How many of your parliamentary proposals have been approved here? So just don't push something that's not true. I insist that the proposal is indeed extremely legislatively unsuccessful, and so allow me to have the right to say it here when I think so. So I said it, and if most of my colleagues think otherwise, they'll show it in the vote. But it just doesn't fit as a carrier, nor as a law that should be passed at third reading, and I think it's another way to go. Then let me think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I find it completely inappropriate to talk today about the legislative imperfections of opposition proposals. Just today, when we had two government proposals that were being corrected at the very end of the legislative process. When the senators had to give us the nomination bill back, they had to fix it to make something of it. When we had to vote, or you who voted in favour of it, a bad bill, a government bill on court interpreters, which will now have to stutter as part of a new draft. That means it's just a stupid excuse. Today is the opposition window, but the opposition window is closed. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Colleague Zbyněk Stanjura checked out, i.e. Mr Ferjenčík and then Mrs Aulická and Pávek, who signed up without a written application, and therefore must respect the priority registration. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u48	Thank you for the floor. I hope for the last time on this matter. Just Mr. Sklenák. Well, the previous law was an example of what I was talking about. This was the proposal of the KSČM, it is not the opposition, it is a party that supports the government, first of all. Secondly, it was a proposal approved by the ANO Members at that first reading, even though they disagreed with it, because that is a coalition agreement. Do you think the party that primarily defends the interests of businessmen will extend their vacation here by itself? This is only because it is a coalition agreement and pressure of the KSČM and an effort to approve the state budget. So don't tell me you're treating everyone the same way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Votava, also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I must stand up for my colleague Sklenák. Mr Sklenák here did not talk about the fact that all the opposition proposals, the parliamentary proposals, were wrong. Some government proposals are good as well as some opposition proposals. But my colleague Sklenák here spoke of a particular proposal. The one we're discussing right now. And that didn't exactly work out from a legislative point of view. Well?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová with a proper application for the debate, followed by Mr Pávek. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u52	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, so I will allow myself to enter into this emotional discussion. Anyway, I would like to say, through the President, to my colleague Ferjenčík, I really do not think that the KSČM, which tolerates the government, yes, tolerates, thank you, let us define precisely, could not actually support other amendments or other bills from other parties across the political spectrum. And I think that your colleague Mrs Richterová must acknowledge that because the KSČM supported her amendment to the change of parenting and drawing on the ten thousand crowns and other things that we really think are good, so we have no problem supporting it. So maybe it would be good to set things straight. I would like to comment on this proposal. I have to say that KDU went the way that even KSČM does not have a problem with and which would say yes, we have been discussing this in the long term and it is a direction that, under some circumstances, the KSČM would have no problem supporting at all, because we, virtually. If I take it into the past, I think my colleague Opálka has long been declaring and proposing. However, I must say that there are fundamental - fundamental - things that we can contradict, whether what the KDU proposes or more or less declare. These are, above all, the budgetary implications where the government then states, or when we say that it is 600 to 1 billion crowns, for some 25 to 30 years, before the situation is balanced with regard to the anticipated period of retirement life. Other annual costs are estimated at 34 billion. But the government estimates the overall result of a negative effect on the state budget balance of around 2,5 percent of GDP per year, i.e. the GDP of 2019 at 140 billion. And I believe that such fundamental contradictions in the argument and what the government is actually saying are more or less fundamental and crucial to the KSČM at the moment. I would also like to say that this is a fundamental thing where it is not sufficiently legislatively technically prepared. I have to agree with my colleague Sklenák here that there are basic technical parameters that would really have great implications. And, of course, I understand that there may be some complex proposal here that could eliminate these legislative defects. But I believe, as it is written, that it really would not have succeeded in what the parameters are. And to me, although we would say that this trip could be a good one, I believe that this discussion should not yet be conducted by the initiative of the parliamentary proposal, but that it should still be conducted within some pension committee, although my colleague Bauer here said that he had a bit of a feeling that 1.5 years does not bring anything fundamental to the pension committee. Anyway, the pension area, or overall pensions, is such a fragile vessel, and it should always be approved across the political spectrum, that at the moment, as I perceive further discussions and contributions, we may not be able to afford to go through some parliamentary initiative in this particular area, and therefore, for these reasons, we will not support this proposal, although of course we know that the path does not differ from the basic parameters proposed by the KSČM in the long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u53	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. And now, Mr Petr Pávek, who received his speech for the application about an hour ago. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I do not want to engage in a political firefight that has been unleashed here between the parties and their protagonists. I wanted to inform you about the position of the Mayors and Independents Club. We will support this bill and want it to go through the first reading. We consider the bill to be the first real reform proposal of the law regarding pension security to be a pension scheme. We all know how long the debate's been going on. We all know how fragile the system is, as my colleague said in the previous performance. And we know how dysfunctional it is from the medium term and especially the long term. This means that we see this bill as a shot at the first reform step, which certainly deserves a proper discussion during further reading and work in committees, possibly changes in technical parameters or even substantive intentions where necessary. But I would lean towards it, and I would ask you to consider the possibility of supporting this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u55	Thank you, Mr Pávek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura now with a proper application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u56	Thank you for the floor. I will now speak to my colleagues and colleagues in social democracy. They don't like it very much. They say why you hit us. Because I have to. Besides, I understand. You're such a bum of a government coalition, and you're not able to enforce anything, so at least you're pointing to an MP's proposal from the KDU workshop. I would have understood that, perhaps humanly or politically. Roman Sklenák, my honored colleague, said here: we are going on another path, we have chosen another path. That's right. They've been walking the blind road for six years. They've been walking for six years, and they haven't shown anything. Yes, they are. And they're still going. More than a year ago, we initiated the House and then we are the upper chamber, and the Senate returned to us the amendment to increase the pensions proposed by the Upper House and adopted by the Civil Democrats to increase the pension by a thousand crowns a month to all who have been retired for more than 25 years. [[unintelligible]] At that time, Minister Maláčová and the Social Democrats blamed us for legislative shortcomings and errors. Okay. We've admitted it. We have removed all legislative shortcomings and errors. Within a year and a day, we filed the proposal in the House, and we're back in the upper chamber. [[unintelligible]] The Upper House sent it back to us without legislative errors, without legislative shortcomings. And what was the result? The CSSD was against it. So the path that colleagues from social democracy are following is very simple: they do not particularly want women to improve their position in the pension system. They don't want to! They had several chances, at least two. That's at least three in the last two years. Twice, they were making excuses for legislative shortcomings. There's an army of lawyers working for you at the Ministry. Not for us. We have heard from the plaintiffs that they are ready to cooperate on the possible removal of legislative deficiencies. But the dispute isn't about the legislative deficiency at all. The dispute is contention. So let's say we don't agree with the content, that's a political opinion, and we can argue about it. Let's not hide behind the fact that someone has an army of officials and is able to write those paragraphs a little better than someone who doesn't. I guess that's logical. There's nothing weird about that. You have also been in opposition, and you know how difficult it is from the opposition to write legislatively high-quality proposals when you don't have an army of officials, you don't have an external or internal commentary procedure. So these are all excuses. So Roman Sklenák, I'm sorry to an honored colleague, his colleagues are going, they've been on a blind road for six years, and they've done nothing for retired women. And I'm really tired of the propaganda, as Mr. Yes said here, we've added as never before. So judge relatively. The ratio of pensions to average wages to average income has never been as low as it is now. Thank the employers. They're getting pension insurance. No government. None! Not even this one. Not even last time. Not even the future. Even as I said in the budget, next year, employers and employees and businessmen will take CZK 17 billion more on pension insurance than after the increase in pensions will be spent on the pension from the state budget. So if we're gonna thank anybody, employers, employees, businessmen and small businessmen. They're paying for it. And I will no longer go into the fact that by law it is CZK 750, and we as the House unanimously, as has been said here, have added 150 crowns. But we could only add them because those who produce values pay taxes, pay pension insurance, make it possible for us. So stop walking around and say, for us, it's the way it's ever been. Really? [[16.40 hours]] Let's look at the servers today. 15 years ago, the Prime Minister's report would have been enough to fund the Prime Minister's termination. Even if he drew them exactly. We don't have to argue about that. That's reality. Today, it's not just the report that the Prime Minister's companies were drawing subsidies - we're giving it the wrong idea, and you're pretending like it's nothing. That it's normal. This is the problem of Czech politics! And I'm looking to the left. You're the ones who cover for him! Yes, it's you! Big problem, major problem, no problem, fellow socdem. So imagine your Prime Minister, who would be reported to be receiving subsidies, receiving subsidies from his company. That's right. You'd get rid of him. And now you're holding a prime minister whose companies are drawing subsidies unjustly, and yet you're hammering, hammering, hammering. Madam Secretary is not here... Don't shout at me, madam. Don't shout at me. [[from the YES benches]] I'll ask Mr. Vice President... I know it's hard to hear!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u57	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace! Anyone who joins this debate will certainly be given the floor, but we need to respect the Rules of Procedure. [[Member of Stanjura: Over the microphone.]] This means that individual performers have peace of mind for their performances. And if you want to react, you can react with a proper performance or with a factual remark. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u58	I agree with Roman Sklenák, so that I do not just criticize that we have the right to evaluate the legislative quality of the proposals, whether they are government, parliamentary, senate or whatever else. I totally agree with that, and I don't mind. I think that those who submit such a law are to deal with the criticism. Either reject it, clearly disprove it, or say, as colleagues from KDU said, yes, we are aware of it, let's work it out! It is not true that any bill can be used as a carrier. Doesn't it just give me a private note for Roman Sklenák: Do we remember, Mr. Sklenák through the Vice-President, the Service Act? I do. I think you and I understand what I'm talking about, what was the carrier and what was the quality of the legislative - parliamentary! - a proposal. So if I were to sum it up: we are in favour of letting it go to second reading, to resolve any legislative shortcomings, to clarify, but let us try to assess the law in content. What's really going on in him. And second of all, the legislative flaws. And if it cannot be removed, then it is legitimate for such a bill to not vote in third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u59	Thank you. Now three factual points - Mr Bělobrádek, Sklenák and Valachová. Before I give Mr Bělobrádek the floor, I state the apology of Vice-President Petr Fiala until the end of the sitting day from 16.30. And Mr Schiller from 17:00 to 21:00 because of his illness. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would return to that remark that it would be better if it were a government proposal. So look at how many government proposals the government is giving and how many members of the coalition we have here, and I count the communists as well. Look at that! How many really government proposals have been passed through the ordinary legislative process, and how many are the MPs. I think it will, of course, be better, but we are sure that no proper proposal will pass through a proper legislative alley as far as government proposals are concerned that it will not be here. And the fact that he's the biggest addition to seniors now. I want to thank what my colleague Stanjura said here. Yes, see how it is with the ratio that I think should be at least 40 per cent in terms of pensions. And how it goes down. But for you, not only does it add a lot, but look at the prices! Look at inflation! Has it ever been this expensive to live in? Look at the cost of food! Look at the possibility of getting into a place at all. You have to look at that! How are the pensioners when they're supposed to pay their rent? When the pensioner is alone! So you gave them little! If you really managed and led the state properly, you should have added a lot more, because thanks to the consumer basket, the pensioner is actually poor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Roman Sklenák, now, will prepare Kateřina Valachová, both with a factual remark. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u62	Thank you. I suppose this is my last point, but given that President Stanjura has given me so much attention in his speech, I am almost expected to respond. So I would just respond to one thing when you said that we did nothing for the elderly in the last six years, so if you let me, even though, as they say, success has many fathers and failure is always an orphan, you might remember what the situation was in the last parliamentary term with regard to statutory valorisation of old-age pensions. This was done on the basis of your adjustment that one third of the growth in real wages and one third of inflation was assessed. At the time, as a social democracy, we wanted this valorisation mechanism to change. Unfortunately, at that time we did not find support from our coalition partner, it could not have been a government proposal, and so it was I - President Stanjur through the President - who read the amendment here that changed the mechanism. And that was not a third of the growth in real wages, but half. And not by a third of inflation, but by the whole of inflation. After that, we introduced a special inflationary basket for pensioners, and today the one that is more advantageous for them is getting married. When I came up with the proposal to the Social Committee, I didn't have the support of my coalition partners back then. It wasn't until the House that we fought this place out. Well, I'm just giving you one example of what I personally did for those retired women. Because the increase in pensions today is largely due to this very change in the valorisation mechanism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Kateřina Valachová also with a factual remark, so far the last one entered into the debate. I beg the peace of the House! You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u64	So certainly every Member of Parliament, when he is rightfully angry, so much for Zbyňka Stanjur, by your means, Mr President. I wanted to stand up for Roman Sklenák, he said here an example of what he did personally towards higher women's pensions. But what I would like to say is that we are all here together in the framework of the pension committee, the opposition and the coalition, looking for a solution not only for existing retired women, but also for those who will retire in the future. I don't have any information that we're not going anywhere near a solution, on the contrary. And in terms of speed, if Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned those long years that are different pension committees, whatever the government is, it seems to me that the last one is quite fruitful and that we are approaching a specific solution for both of these situations. Oh, and one final point. As far as the audit is concerned, why are there any more attacks on social democracy, I don't know. A moment ago, we passed a point at the Chamber of Deputies on Thursday, learn what we have to learn, and then decide according to our best knowledge and conscience. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now I don't have one registered for the debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. We have another part of our discussion ahead of us, and those are the final words. Is there an interest in the final word? Deputy plaintiffs do. Please, Mr Marian Jurečka, the final word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u66	Thank you. I, too, thank you for the debate, which, unfortunately, has bounced away from the substance of the proposal, but this is often part of the meeting in the House. I would just like to show here, when it was mentioned here that it is almost impossible to amend this proposal in the next legislative process, please nicely, this is one side of specific legislative adjustments and these are the remaining less than two. [[He's showing the document.]] We are talking about two and three quarters of the pages of specific provisions, which, if we wanted to alienate the legislative text, we would have been able to modify. It's nothing unusual that we haven't done here in the past. My colleagues, above all, from the Economic Committee, can also evaluate the quality of government proposals that we are getting from some departments in quite detail. And we know how often, through parliamentary proposals, we make relatively broad changes in these proposals in order to adapt and correct the quality of the original ministerial proposal, by means of a government proposal. I would like to ask you nicely to consider this press from the point of view of the arguments that these impacts can help. We're talking about the future here, about making the pension system more helpful and motivating for people who decide whether to have two or three children. Because if we get demographically into the birth rate of 2.1 child per woman, our continuous systems should be won and we do not have to deal with some very painful changes in the future within e.g. pension reforms, possibly personal participations and the like. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to consider the release of this proposal for the second reading of the Committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-005-127.u67	Thank you. The plaintiffs' representatives? The rapporteur is not interested. Before we continue with any proposal from the appellants, we must deal with the proposal that has been made in the debate, and that is the proposal for rejection. [[Gong.]] We will decide on this proposal in the vote number one twenty-six, which I will only begin after I have signed you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting on the motion for rejection. Before that, I will state Mr Martin Kupka's apology from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. I think the number of entries has stabilized. We will decide on a motion to reject this proposal. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 126. Of the present 162 for 88, against 73. The motion was accepted. That concludes the 439 press hearing. I thank the appellants' representatives, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude with paragraph 127. The next item will be the item
