ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Commercial Companies and Cooperatives (Act on Commercial Corporations), as amended by Act No. 458/2016 Coll., and other related laws /house print 207/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, whom I ask to take the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government bill amending the Commercial Corporations Act and other related laws. The Ministry of Justice has drawn up a draft law amending the Commercial Companies and Cooperatives Act, the Commercial Corporations Act, as amended by other related laws, in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for the last year. Its aim is to address some of the shortcomings that have arisen in practice in the application of the Commercial Corporations Act. An expert commission consisting of leading Czech academics and representatives of the Supreme Court participated in the preparation of this law. The proposed changes affect various aspects. Although the amendment is very extensive at first glance, it contains only a few conceptual changes. In many places, changes made in other provisions are consistently reflected in order to ensure consistency of the law. Depending on the orientation of the proposed changes, they can be divided into the following categories: Firstly, it is a reduction in the regulatory burden for entrepreneurs and a strengthening of the autonomy of will where restrictions are not necessary, such as the repayment of cash deposits to a limited company other than a bank account, the adjustment of per rollam decision-making, the regulation of the prohibition of competition, the setting-up of cooperatives and others. Secondly, it is to ensure greater transparency in the organisational structures of capital companies and cooperatives in a situation where a legal person is a member of their elected body. Such a legal person should always be a traceable natural person acting on behalf of a legal person, who may also be held liable. Functional and external practice competitive regulation of the monistic system - this is the third - internal management of a public limited company meeting the requirements of transparency, where only one body is required to be set up, namely the Board of Directors. Fourthly, addressing the issue of so-called inactive companies, which pose the risk of being abused for fraudulent conduct, and only secondarily enforcing the obligation to file accounting documents in the Register of Documents. Fifthly, the correction of shortcomings in the transposition of certain provisions of the European Union Directives. Sixth implementation of the linking of the trade register with other similar European registers through the system of linking the register and fulfilling the requirement of European law. Seventhly ensuring greater protection of the rights of members, especially minority members, and strengthening their legal certainty. The eighth elimination of inaccuracies or uncertainties, such as the modification of protests at the general meeting and others. Ninth elimination of legislative technical or terminology errors and duplications or otherwise redundant provisions. The effectiveness is proposed to be established from 1 January 2020. The effectiveness of the amendment of the Basic Registers Act is proposed to be set at 1 July 2020 in order to set up processes for the processing of new reference data. However, an extension of these deadlines may be foreseen. I guess that's for the show. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your views.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u3	Thank you, Minister. I wish you all a nice evening. Furthermore, the proposal was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee and the press was ordered to the Economic Committee. The Committees' resolution was delivered as House prints 207/2 and 207/3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Jakub Michálek, take the floor and inform us of the committee proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee discussed this press at its exit meeting and the result was delivered to you as the House Press 207/3, which shows that the Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the draft law and, at the same time, recommends two amendments. The first is quite long because it is the essence of releasing the material relating to cooperatives from the House press, because it will be dealt with within the House press, which concerns cooperatives. And the second part concerns an amendment that sets aside a new shareholder's right or another person who holds a stake in a commercial corporation to take with it to the highest body, such as a general meeting, one of his supporters, a person who, for example, will advise her on how to exercise its shareholder rights correctly and effectively. So many two amendments from the constitutional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Petr Pávek's economic committee to inform us about the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments. Before they arrive, I would inform you that Mrs Matušovská apologises to us today from 17.45 until the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. And now, please, once again, Mr Pávek. [[He's not in the O.R.]] If he is not present, I would probably need another member of the Economic Committee to represent him as rapporteur. I'd like a representative of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 28th meeting of 15 May on the Government Bill amending Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Cooperatives, as amended by Act No. 458/2016 Coll., and other related laws, House print 207. [[Commercial Corporations Act]] Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of Deputy Minister of Justice Michal Franěk, reports by Mr Petr Pávek and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House press 207 as amended by the Government Bill; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u7	I thank Mr Luzar for representing us. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Feri, Mr Chvojka, Mrs Maříková and then Mr Benda came forward. Before Mr Feri arrives at the microphone, I will introduce you to another note, from Mr Antonín Staněk, who apologizes for today's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the day for work reasons and for tomorrow's meeting for a whole day for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u8	Thank you very much for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, the President of Michálek has already put this place in front of us. Indeed, one of the approved amendments enshrines a new law, that is to say, taking your attorney in particular to the general meeting, if you are a shareholder or a partner, so that he can help you with whether compliance with the law or the statutes of the company or the social contract is maintained. This means that we have responded in this amendment to the fact that the proposal itself, the draft amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act, tightens the protest with which the right is bound in the court of annulment of the general meeting resolution. I'm very glad it passed. We have prepared the proposal together with the Ministry and thank you very much for your helpfulness. [[17.40 hours]] Unfortunately, what has not been done is the proposed regulation or the removal of the proposed regulation by a mandatory three-member board. I have already done this in the first reading, and I will then apply this proposal in a detailed debate. To refresh the memory of what's going on. In the past, the system was only dualistic, which means there was a board of directors and a supervisory board. This involved considerable costs, whether administrative, financial or personnel, to enable such a system to function, and then a monistic system was introduced, with which it was possible to concentrate all the necessary powers and responsibilities associated with it into one person, a member of the Board of Directors, a single-member board and a statutory director. The statutory director is now canceled, but we say that the board of directors will have to be three-membered. But this completely denies the sense for which the monistic structure was anchored, that is, to save costs, to simplify it all, and not only for small companies, for family companies, for example, but it also has great importance, for example, in transferring some large shares, some large merging companies, etc. In short, there are different chains of equity companies that have a monistic internal structure. It is precisely this absurdity that three members will be required there, so it is all the more so for the simple reason that the vast majority of companies with an internal monetary structure are with one member, with a single board of directors. If you look at the proposal itself in the RIA report, there is a graph that shows that 3 759 companies had one-man board on 10. 8. 2016, which accounts for about 90 percent of all companies. What does that mean in practice, and why am I doing such a detail here? It's because, in fact, there may be more of them today, the Minister doesn't have to find out now, I don't want to worry about it, I'm going to ask them about it as part of the interpelling process - but that those nearly four thousand companies, which are especially small, family or medium-sized, will have to look for two more people, and they will actually take over their leadership, to run the stock company. It's not just that you have to pay these people. One can argue, my colleague Kohoutek here argued that if the contract for the performance of the function is not concluded, the performance is free of charge by law. That is true, but if you take great responsibility for the company's management, and, of course, not just the liability of some, say, legal in the sense of private liability, but some moral, for example, it's the good name of the company, so you probably want to be evaluated for that. And for those companies, in addition to the financial burden, it will also mean that they will actually have to trust the other two people without having to. This means that this amendment does not invent anything new at all, it maintains the current situation in line with, for example, the position of the Supreme Court and, together with the regulation that is common in other countries. This means that the monistic structure means concentrating individual powers into one person in the very last case, but it has proven itself very well in practice and which is used by the vast majority of all equity companies that have a monistic internal structure. That's one suggestion. And another amendment concerns a very small legislative technical regulation recommended by the Notary Chamber, which we failed to work on, they failed to work on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you. I will sign up for the proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u9	I also thank and invite another speaker, Mr Chvojka, to the debate and Mrs Maříková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have now looked into the House of Deputies' system. This press was submitted to the first reading sometime last June. It is a good thing that we have moved forward, even if it is a year and a quarter, but it is not the Ministry's fault, because we Members really needed this important law, virtually. its amendment to discuss, because the Commercial Corporations Act is, without a doubt, a law that is very important, at least under private law. I would just like to shed some light on the reasons for the amendment, which I will be signing up for in detail in the debate. I put it in the system today. My amendment regulates the issue of the so-called codetermination, i.e. employee participation in supervisory boards. I guess I don't need to remind you, or just some of you, that during the previous term of office of this House of ČSSD, it has pushed for an important change in the Commercial Corporations Act. We have returned this past term to the law of guarantee that in large companies, which are companies over 500 employees, employees can elect their representatives to the Supervisory Board. This law was released from the new regulation of commercial law or commercial corporations in 2012 by the then Nečasův government. In cooperation with the trade unions, we have managed to defend and preserve this important right. The same situation occurred with a new proposal to amend the Commercial Corporations Act, the amendment of which we are currently discussing at second reading. ČSSD does not see any reason why the right of employees to vote for their representatives in the supervisory board of public limited liability companies would be necessary. And I am glad that this is how colleagues from the KSČM look at this question, and the representatives of trade unions have also expressed their support. My amendment is de facto an amendment which returns the proposed legislation to the current version. Representation of employees in the management bodies of business companies is an important European fundamental law, which, by the way, is enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of EU employees and has an extensive tradition in the legal systems of a number of European states, including, as I have already said, the rule of law of our state. I therefore believe that this important institute makes sense, and I would like it to be maintained in the Commercial Corporations Act unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u11	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Maříková, and Mr Benda will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to justify my amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. My amendment addresses the rights of members of the cooperative, namely the right to information and the right to control the activities of the cooperative. Although the right to information is one of the most fundamental rights of members of commercial corporations in general, this right is not enshrined in Law No. 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Cooperatives. The right to information stems directly from the nature of the ownership of the cooperative share, so that each member of the cooperative can learn how its member's share is handled by the cooperative. Despite the fact that the professional public, legal teaching and commentary speak of the right to information for members of the cooperative, in practice there are problems that arise precisely as a result of the absence of explicit legal regulation. However, for other commercial corporations, Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Cooperatives, the explicit modification of the right to information contains. In particular, it is the provision of § 107 of Law No. 90/2012 Coll., on companies and cooperatives, on the provision of § 119 of Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on companies and cooperatives, on the provision of § 155 of Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on companies and cooperatives, on the provision of § 357 of Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Cooperatives. The proposed regulation, namely the explicit indication of the right to information of cooperative members in Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on companies and cooperatives, as is the case with other commercial corporations, interpretation problems and possible litigation between cooperative members and cooperatives themselves can be avoided. [[17.50 hours]] Similarly, it is the case with delegates. The proposed amendment to the right of the delegate to information is based on the same principles as the right to information of the members of the cooperative themselves. Delegates are representatives of the members of the cooperative, the assembly of delegates thus, in principle, represents a member meeting of the cooperative at which members are obliged to be represented by the person they choose and by the delegate. Law No 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Cooperatives, further regulates the relationship between the members of the cooperative and the elected delegate. It is therefore desirable that the delegate himself should have information about what is happening in the cooperative, when this right is completely absent from the delegate in the current Act on Companies and Cooperatives. The proposed regulation, i.e. the explicit indication of the right to information of delegates of cooperatives in Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on companies and cooperatives, interpretation problems and possible litigation between delegates and cooperatives can be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u13	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Benda, who is the last to be entered in the general debate at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u14	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Madam Secretary Two, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be too long either. The Commercial Corporations Act is an extremely complex technical standard, which I think very few people in this hall really understand here, and that was mostly done by experts. I am glad that the Ministry of Justice has been able to meet the efforts of Members to be completely minimal against the drafts by Minister Pelikán. When you look at the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, almost all points are deleted, respectively. The vast majority of them, which we considered to be completely necessary and, above all, merely an exhibition of a part of business lawyers who say that the other part of business lawyers are wrong. In this regard, we believe that the stability of the rule of law, its immutability is more important than whether there is something slightly wrong or slightly good. So we tried to eliminate it in a maximum way and really leave only the things that we consider necessary. He has already mentioned a proposal from a colleague of mine, Feri, to whom I signed up on the floor of the Constitutional Committee, and I will certainly support him. I wanted to justify one more proposal in the general debate, which I will then make in detail in the debate, as has already been said here by Mr Chvojka, who is heading in the exact opposite direction, which wants to represent employees on the supervisory boards of larger companies. I think it's a business thing if they want or don't want employee representation. The government proposal creates a special possibility that there was a third of some mandatory. The government proposal says there must be at least one employee representative. It looks noble, but then when you really talk to those companies, they don't really care if it's one or a third, because they're overvoted anyway. But it means for them to organize elections inside those companies, to invent all the electoral systems and other questions, which is far from trivial to them, and then they don't really care if one or a third is elected. Therefore, I propose to return to the original thesis, which was that these are the statutes of a business company which determine whether they have or do not have employees represented on the Supervisory Board, and that business company itself decides whether it considers it useful. It is probably useful in a number of cases, in particular for state or semi-state enterprises, to have employees represented. I think that in a number of cases today, especially those of modern business companies, typically the emerging e-business, that doesn't make much sense. They're not the old unionists we knew anymore. So my proposal will be to leave the business companies, even the larger ones, if they want to or do not want to have employees on the supervisory boards. Only if that were the case would it be defined how such employees are chosen, but it would be a matter for the company. Thank you for your attention and I will sign up for this proposal in the wake of a small debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u15	Thank you, too. This was the last written entry into the general debate, and if no one is reporting from the point of view, which I do not see, I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiffs and rapporteurs if they are interested in final words, but they do not. There has also been no proposal that we should vote on at this time, so I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified, e.g. a reference to the proposal or to the previous speech. Please, Mr Feri, who is the first to be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u16	Thank you for the floor. It doesn't work for me, and in connection with the codetermination, when Chvojka and Benda's colleagues mentioned it, one thing that we didn't really deal with on the committee is the compliance of codetermination with the newly anchored right to associate shares with the so-called shares. broadcasting law, it simply means the ability to link the right to delegate someone to that supervisory board. It then creates such cohesion when it can, when it cannot, when it is a large company over 500 employees. But the proposals themselves. Allow me to sign up for House document 2344, which concerns the preservation of the one-member board, and the House document number 1478, that is the legislative technical regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u17	I also thank Mr Strýček, who is next enrolled in the detailed debate, and I would like to thank Mr Uncle. And please remain calm in the hall. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up to my amendment, which is being held as a House document under number 3312. I did not deliberately speak in the general debate because these are relatively minor technical adaptations, which, however, need to be adopted following the resolutions adopted by the Constitutional Committee. These adjustments are, of course, consulted and made in agreement with the Ministry of Justice. [[Nesroz.]] The overall comprehensive justification is in the written form of my proposal, which is in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u19	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Chvojka, Mrs Maříková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u20	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. I am the reason why I tabled my amendment, which has already been explained in the context of the general debate. I now formally sign up for the amendment, which is deposited under number 3118 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u21	I, too, thank you, and please Mrs Maříková, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is included in the system as House document 2349, and it also includes a justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u23	Thank you and please Mr Výborný. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u24	Thank you for the floor. Everyone, colleagues, good afternoon. Madam Minister of Justice, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to make my views known in this detailed debate on the amendment made by my colleague Jan Bartošek, which is quite extensive and concerns cooperative housing. In the system it was loaded including a very detailed explanatory report, so there you can all meet it. I hereby subscribe to this amendment, which is in the system under number 2365. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u25	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Benda, who is the last to be entered into a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u26	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would, if I may, apply to House document 2938. It is the representation of employees in supervisory councils, which should be purely on the will, virtually. The statutes of the company. We'll discuss this next week on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-009-014.u27	I, too, thank you, and that was the last one entered into a detailed debate at the moment, and if no one else is reporting from the point of view, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask again the appellant and rapporteur, or the other rapporteur, if they are interested in the final word. But it's not. Nor have there been any proposals that we should vote on at this time, so I will end the second reading of this proposal and see you next time. [[18.00 hours]] Now let's move on, which is item 15 of the approved show. This is about
