ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (the Act on the Register of Contracts), as amended /German press 50/13/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned to us the bill with an amendment, his resolution being delivered as House press 50/14. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Jan Žaloudík among us and I ask that Mr Jakub Michálek, who was one of the proponents of the bill, speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendment tabled. Do you have any interest in commenting on the rebuttal? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear government, today we have the final vote on the Act on the Register of Contracts, its amendment, which concerns the publication of contracts by state enterprises such as ČEZ, České dráhy, etc. There is a proposal from the Senate, which contains one minor change, by introducing a new exception for the unit prices of drugs. It is therefore a material which is completely unrelated to the issue on which we have put forward the bill, and I would therefore recommend that we stick to the version approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Jakub Michálek. I will now ask Senator Jan Žaloudík to comment on the Senate's amendment. Please, Senator... Not yet. I'll ask the House for peace! If you are having discussions other than the Free Access Act, please, in principle, in the foyer. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I would first like to correct the name of the lecturer. My name is malý, not Žaloudík. Stomach looks different...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u5	I'm sorry, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u6	It has happened, but it is okay, Mr President, because my colleague Žaloudík and I have prepared this small amendment together, and I would say that this is our joint work, or his name was quite rightly mentioned here, because otherwise it would not have been here. So my name is malý, just for protocol. I would like to begin by saying that talking about changes such as transparency, transparency in the register of contracts, and even questioning it is like talking about a rope in a hangman's house. So I will not speak at all against the transparency of contracts or the transparency of the register, I will speak for him surprisingly. And I would just like you to take note and kindly vote in favour of the minor amendment, which concerns Section 3 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 when the obligation to publish through the contract register does not apply: technical draft, instructions, drawing, project documentation, model, method of calculation of unit prices, model and calculation - we have taken the liberty of giving four words and these are "unit prices of medicinal products'. Unit prices for medicinal products. First, I'd say what I came up with. It is therefore the minor amendment. What are the reasons that led us to this amendment with my colleague Žaloudík and the other senators? I would say that I will say the advantages of this amendment, or the reasons which led us to do so, and I will finally ask you for a kind vote in favour of this proposal. I'd sum it up very capidically into a few points. It is not about strengthening the non-transparency of drawing from public funds, and I have no reason not to publish the prices of the drugs competing, I will publish them, I will stand in front of the hospital, I will have a banner in front of me, how much we spent on drugs that day. I don't have a problem at all. However, if the contractual prices of drugs are bound by business secrets in the contract, this amendment puts me in a difficult dilemma, because on the one hand, I have an amendment to the law that forces me to publish all contracts transparently and all prices, I have no problem with it, on the other hand there is a trade agreement that forbids me. I asked about it at the unnamed ministry, and I was told to go to court with it. I don't want to go to court, I want this to be clear, so it's clear how I'm supposed to act like a proper caretaker. And this should be completely clarified from the beginning of the amendment, not for the court to decide. That's a small thing. That's gonna make a decision. It's either a trial or it's gonna change. What bothers me most about the novel is that it leads to clear discrimination against hospitals directly controlled by the Ministry of Health over hospitals in private hands. Imagine a hospital with a budget of CZK 300 million. One is in the hands of the Ministry, one is in the hands of the private. They both take funds from the same sources, which means public health insurance. That one has to publish all his contracts, that's the one administered by the Ministry; those who are so-called in private hands need not publish any contracts. And that's not right. I don't think that's balanced or right. She's offering a Czech alley I'd hate to recommend, but I'll tell her anyway, because some people do. I'm going to publish a contract with the company that gave me the drugs, and I'm going to black out all the figures that are numerical. But that's Kocourkov, I don't like it! This amendment certainly cannot lead to this. Is that what we really want? And I am quite passing away from the fact that the impact of this amendment on a very problematic increase in hospital costs is not calculated. Competitive drug prices aren't for those companies, they're for our sick, our nurses and our doctors. The financial impact of this amendment is therefore not calculated. We managed to Žaloudík the Senators with Sorry. 50-0. Fifty voted yes, none opposed. I would ask you very much to take my arguments to heart and consider them as you can, and for this small amendment - four words: unit prices of medicines - to vote kindly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u7	Thank you, Senator Jaroslav Malý. Again, I apologize to him, I know my colleague Žaloudek, and I only used the prescribed minutes of the senators' presence, but please accept my apology. Do the rapporteurs of the various committees want to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? I'll ask my colleague, Ondřej Profant, if he's interested. It's not like that. Stanislav Fridrich - Committee of Constitutional Law? It's not like that. Leo Luzar for the petition committee? It's not like that. Jan Bartošek for the Security Committee? It's not like that. Marian Jurečka for the Economic Committee? It's not like that. Radovan Vích for the Defence Committee? Not either. So in that case, I can open the debate. And I have Mr. Adam Kalous registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding you how the first version of the Treaty Register Act, which was dealt with here in 2015, was adopted. First, the law entered into force on 1 July 2016 and its adoption was one of the main pre-election promises that we gave to citizens as a YES movement and that we fulfilled very quickly. Two. Without the YES movement, the law could never be passed. That's just a fact, and it needs to be remembered here. Three. It is not true what President Michálek said today that we are blocking the adoption of the amendment to this law that we are delaying it. It's nonsense. It's exactly the opposite. And the fact that this item was presented today by President Faltýnek is clear evidence of this. We are now discussing the amendment returned to the Senát. I have tabled a comprehensive amendment to that part of the amendment concerning the register of contracts, which abolishes exemptions from the publication of contracts for companies whose securities have been admitted to trading on a regulated market. This means that ČEZ, České dráhy, ČD Cargo, ČEPS and others will have to publish new contracts in the register, but it will only concern those contracts which are not contracts from the ordinary course of trade. This means that contracts such as marketing contracts, contracts for legal services, for the purchase of vehicles, etc. will be published. However, those contracts which might be used by the competition will not be published as the national company Budvar applies in practice and there is no problem with that. The same applies to military enterprises. That's what we've been talking about. Therefore, contracts relating to State defence or critical infrastructure will not be published. This is the substance of my amendment, which has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies at third reading. This means that there are nearly 1,400 companies today, which are majority owned by state or local authorities. Of this, almost 27 per cent are equity companies that can theoretically issue bonds at any value and thus break free from the obligation to enter a contract into the contract register. It is this exception that my amendment removes and this amendment removes. As far as the Senate amendment is concerned, I identify here with the negative opinion of the Ministry of Health, except that the unit prices of patented medicines are no longer published by manufacturers with reference to trade secrets, would include this exception in a situation where prices of ordinary non-patented medicines whose position is identical to any goods on the market will not be published either. Thank you all here for supporting the original House version and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u9	I thank Mr Adam Kalous. Now, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch in the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me, too, to comment on the bill in the version approved by the Senate, which, as has been said, contains the amended amendment by Senator Jaroslav Malý on the issue of publication of unit prices for medicinal products. In general, I must say that I consider maximum transparency to be a very important and effective instrument of public control over the expenditure of public bodies, which are definitely state hospitals. Therefore, the Ministry of Health does not consider the introduction of a general exemption from the publication of unit prices for medicinal products desirable, on the contrary, we consider that, if possible, it is appropriate for them to be published. On the basis of the assessment of that amendment, I consider that the inclusion of a new exemption from publication in the contract register is not justified. On the contrary, its approval may contribute to the increased lack of clarity of the legislation in question. In the provisions of the Register Act, where the new exemption is to be added, so called. exceptions of an optional nature. This means that these items can, in general, be published on the basis of a voluntary decision by the relevant bodies without affecting their effectiveness. This could give the wrong impression that this information can be requested under Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on free access to information. In doing so, unit prices of medicinal products are generally referred to as subject matter of business secrecy and therefore are data which are not provided under the Act on Free Access to Information. Therefore, if the information on the unit price of the medicinal product is identified as a trade secret by one of the Contracting Parties, it cannot be provided under the Free Access to Information Act and therefore, in accordance with the derogation provided for in Section 3 (1) (a). It shall not publish the contract register in the register of contracts either. It is true that in many situations, especially in the area of original irreplaceable medicines, hospitals have only a very small area of manoeuvre. If unit prices of medicines are classified as business secrets and comply with its legal characteristics, they are already excluded from the publication obligation. This means that the Institute of Business Secrets can actually be used and, in such a case, do not disclose this information. I do not consider a flat exception to publication and to medicinal products where there is no legal reason for concealing the unit price, which is a reference to trade secrets, appropriate. Indeed, there is no reason to keep a unit price that does not meet the parameters of business secrets from the public. Therefore, I believe that the legislation at issue is already quite sufficient in this regard and that the amendment adopted by the Senate is not necessary, on the contrary, it can make application practice even more difficult and obscure. The problem to be addressed by the Senate amendment is, in my view, merely a poor application of the legal provisions concerned by certain health service providers, which should not in itself be a reason for amending the law, and therefore I support the version adopted by the Chamber of Deputies for the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-005-003.u11	I thank the Minister of Health. I ask who goes on to report to the debate because I have no other written application. If no one reports, I shall conclude the debate and proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, if there is no interest in the final word. It's not like that. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed, i.e. for the approval of the Senate version. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, as amended, according to the House press 50/13, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 50/14." [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] I'll check you all out, I'll ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. And we're going to vote, and we're going to vote 947, and I'm going to vote 947, and I'm going to ask who's in favour of the Senate version. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 947 of 162 present for 41 Member, against 81. The motion was denied. I note that we have not accepted the bill as approved by the Senate. [[15.50 hours]] We will therefore decide again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Kvorum 101 is already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate according to House press 50/13." [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] I've launched a 948 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 948, out of 171 Members for 114, against 20. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted this bill. Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav Malý, representatives of the plaintiffs, and I finish point 3. The next item is the approved agenda for our meeting:
