ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u1	37. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and amending certain laws (the Act on investment incentives), as amended, and Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended /German press 298/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Marta Nováková, Minister of Industry and Trade, will present the proposal. Madam Secretary, please take the floor. At the same time, it will be prepared as rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Vojtěch Munzar, who is already ready behind the table. So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to introduce an amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, which also includes a related amendment to the Employment Act. Before submitting the bill to the government, which discussed it on 26 September 2018, the draft law was discussed with practitioners, associations and departments concerned. The existing setting-up of the investment incentive system has been linked mainly to the need to reduce unemployment. However, this focus is no longer consistent with the current state of our economy. Investment incentives therefore need to be provided only very exceptionally and primarily for projects with high added value for the Czech Republic and possibly for projects with high added value for the Czech Republic. for projects with locations in the most economically affected regions of the Czech Republic. [[12.40 hours]] The proposed amendment will in particular bring about the following changes: 1. In order to strengthen the rationalization, all requests for investment incentives before their decision will be subject to the approval of the Government. Without this, the investment incentive will not be granted. 2. The flexibility of the entire system of investment incentives and its coherence with the specific economic situation in the Czech Republic will increase, as there will be a competence distribution of the system between the law and government regulation. Due to the possibility of applying the income tax discount, investment incentives are the only aid scheme governed by law and are therefore proposed to transfer only some of the parameters of the investment supported to the implementing regulation. 3. Investment incentives will also be available only for projects with higher added value, where the method of assessment of higher added value will be defined by a government regulation. The investment is expected to be linked mainly to the qualification of the work carried out, the proportion of research and development carried out and the prescribed wage level for the supported entity will have to be ensured. 4. It is expected to improve the availability of investment incentives especially for smaller local Czech entrepreneurs by reducing the entry limits. The submitted amendment to the Act will strengthen the role of the government in general in determining more detailed parameters of supported investments as well as in individual assessment of individual investment projects. In view of the economic effects of the investment incentives granted and the need to thoroughly assess the adequacy of the aid requested against the benefits of individual projects, this adjustment appears to be highly desirable. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support this law both in the first reading and in the following legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say that the current law is actually surviving, and the amendment is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u3	That was Secretary Marta Nováková. Before I give the rapporteur the floor, I will read one apology. Mr Petr Pávek apologizes between 12.30 and 14.00 because of negotiations in the electoral region. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will perform twice today. You see, I'm already logged on the board because one day I want to be the rapporteur, and the second time I want to introduce you to my personal view of investment incentives. So I'm gonna get off first with the news report. As the Minister said, this law completely changes the philosophy of investment incentives. The original Act on investment incentives, which is still valid today and is to be amended by the amendment, had de facto three main objectives. The first was to support investment in regions with lower economic performance, the second general objective was to reduce unemployment through job creation, and finally the third objective was to address the lack of domestic capital. Of course, it is necessary to create new jobs because of the growth of the economy, and we know that many companies today have a problem getting employees, so it has led the petitioner to amend the law, even though we can wonder whether it is really a novel or a new law itself, because there is a change in almost sixty places and even in the inter-departmental commentary proceedings there were comments as to whether it would not be more meaningful to solve the situation by creating a completely new standard. So the amendment replaces these three original objectives with new ones, which aim to improve the flexibility of decision-making according to the current conditions of the economic situation, inclusion among government support authorities, second, an increase in added value - it is not my opinion - supported projects, declared withdrawal from projects with low added value and third, maintaining more intensive support in economically weaker regions. On this basis, it should be recalled that investment incentives for technological centres and strategic services came into the law in 2012. Since this year, a total of 502 applications have been accepted, of which 8 applications have been from the area of technological centres and 22 from the area of strategic services centres. New applicants propose to target investment aid for projects with higher added value by strengthening support for technological centres and centres of strategic services and by introducing stricter conditions for support for production projects. At the same time, maintain increased support in economically troubled regions, improve the availability of incentives for SMEs and improve the flexibility of the investment incentive system in relation to the current economic situation. Therefore, for example, the condition of the number of jobs is abolished and the condition is replaced that 80 per cent of employees must reach an average salary in the region in combination with one of the other two conditions, either the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with a research organisation or a university in the field of R & D activities and at least 10 per cent of employees with higher education, or the share of at least 2 per cent of R & D staff. The main focus of the amendment is therefore in support of the technology centres and centers of strategic services. But because, according to the petitioners, the income tax discount, which is the main investment incentive, is not incentive enough for the centres - I quote directly from the explanatory memorandum - so the government comes up with softening conditions regarding, for example, restrictions on the calculation of jobs throughout the company to the establishment, increasing the limit of the financial contribution, etc. Or new jobs can also be occupied by long-term residents residing in the European Union, i.e. those living in other European Union countries. For further discussion, it should be noted that even in this sector of strategic services and technological centres, there are insufficient qualified workers in the Czech Republic today. Moreover, due to digitization and globalisation, these are services that are very easy to move. It is therefore necessary to ask at first reading how this support will be effective, whether it will continue to suck out the labour market, where there is already a shortage of qualified employees today. Secondly, the question must be whether these technological centres and strategic services are not easily relocated after the investment incentive has been exhausted. At the same time, it should be recalled that, in addition to investment incentives, the Technology Centre and the Centre for Strategic Shared Services are now directly supported by subsidies from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. The submitters expect greater flexibility in response to the economic cycle. This will enable the Government to decide on the setting up of certain conditions of the Investment Incentives Act by means of implementing legislation, by regulation of the Government, which was mentioned here by the Minister, because the Government's regulation and its amendment are less time-consuming. This is justified by, for example, the narrowing of supported types of investment actions, the minimum amount of acquisition of fixed tangible and intangible assets, the minimum number of jobs created, the specific way of demonstrating higher added value, the minimum limits for strategic investment action and the maximum amount of financial contribution to the acquisition of assets in a strategic investment action. This is a very important change - strengthening the role of government as the last arbiter. According to the proposal of the amendment, the government should have the right not to give an investment incentive to candidates even if the conditions are met. Unfortunately, the debate in professional circles around this law has narrowed down, in particular, to whether there should be some automation in decision making based on the fulfilment of criteria, or the allocation of incentives will be a political decision, because that is also the decision made in this law. In this respect, there is a difference of opinion, such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport or the Chamber of Commerce. But it is mainly a discussion of who will decide on the competitive advantages of granting such an investment incentive, because each investment incentive offers a competitive advantage to the beneficiary. In my view, it would be a significant mistake to narrow the discussion of this law only to the question of who will decide, but we should be concerned with whether to offer such competitive advantages to anyone, whether at all and under what conditions. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, here we will decide on investment incentives, which are, in particular, a subsidy title from this point of view, and its criteria, because as the law is conceived, it is a special grant title, nothing else. At this first reading, we should address, in particular, the need for such a grant title and its effectiveness in the proposed criteria. [[12.50 hours]] In the framework of the inter-departmental commentary procedure, a number of fundamental general comments were made, aimed precisely at the very nature of the law, which is worth knowing, and I consider it appropriate to introduce you to them. In particular, these are comments from the Ministry of Finance, which have changed in the course of negotiations from fundamental to recommendation. These were comments of an argumentatively strong and relatively fundamental nature, which is why I will present them here. Now quote. "The Ministry of Finance considers that the proposal for a change in the system to provide investment incentives must be preceded by a thorough analysis of the current functioning of the system, in particular an assessment of its benefits and costs, its incentive effect, necessity and so on, and only then specific objectives to be achieved, and in the final step in the appropriate form and in the manner in which they can be achieved. A comprehensive assessment must also be subject to the functioning of the system from the point of view of its existing form, i.e. legal regulation. We are aware that such an evaluation is not easy, but after almost 20 years of legal effectiveness it is necessary. By repeated amendments, where the newly proposed criteria and changes are not further substantiated or justified, it is not certain that the desired objective will be achieved, i.e. the generally established higher added value of investments and improvement of the innovative potential of the Czech Republic or the business environment, which are difficult to define, but feasible and therefore evaluable. [[for illustration can be given as an example of setting the criterion of ten percent of the proportion of higher education employees]] As a result, whether the goals are fulfilled or not, another amendment will always follow. In this way, partial changes will always be a response to the current situation. At the same time, these changes increase the intensity of administration of the state process on the one hand and the difficulty of orientation in the system, including the associated burden on beneficiaries by numerous checks on the other." The Ministry of Industry and Trade has taken a quite peculiar approach to this, claiming that a large number of long-term quantified economic data is needed for such an analysis, with specific data from the recipients of investment incentives which are not actually available. Which seems strange to me, if the Act on Investment Incentives has been in place here for 20 years, that the MIT does not have the necessary data to produce an analysis of whether it is necessary, whether it is effective and so on. In other words, why I read it to you. I wanted to show you that the Ministry of Finance also wanted a thorough analysis of whether investment incentives had any meaning and a more detailed justification for the criteria. And the MIT took the lead in adopting a novel quickly, and the analysis would be too burdensome. This comment by the Ministry of Finance was also accompanied by the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, where - in turn, the quote: RIA deals with the dysfunction of the existing instrument of investment incentives, as a solution only presents a zero option, which is the current state, which is rejected for a number of substantive reasons, and proposed. They thus ignore the possible solution in relation to the achievement of the objectives. We therefore ask for such a significant amendment that has implications for the business environment and public budgets to expand or explain why other variants have not been considered. The MIT has been very vague about this again. The Ministry of Finance also continued in its comments that the determination of higher added value, which is the main argument of the petitioners, is very difficult, as the petitioner himself claims. Therefore, the optimal option was not chosen to distinguish between projects with low and higher added value, but the only relatively acceptable and, at the same time, seemingly manageable. In view of the difficult adjustable criteria of higher added value, the fundamental question of whether this form, the Investment Incentives Act, is at all suitable for this type of support and supported projects should be answered. The material itself contributes to doubt, for example by claiming that the income tax discount, which is the main investment incentive, is not enough incentive for the centres - it is even in the explanatory report, the general part, B, 1.1. - or by stating that the fundamental problem of investors is, inter alia, a lack of skilled labour, which will make the expected influx of targeted investments even worse. So much for the Treasury's reservations about this law. As you can see from the above comments, it is not entirely clear that the amendment is the optimal option and also the only possible and correct option. There is no complete evaluation of the option of abolishing investment incentives as a legal subsidy title, as a relevant option. It also does not include impacts on the region's economy, its employment and the functioning of existing surrounding companies and their competitiveness. Because that's the competitive advantage we're giving an investment incentive to one company at the expense of the others in the region. Everything is presented only as a positive impact. It's as if you've built a subsidized pub and written that your clients will eat well there and increase your city's popularity, but at the same time they forgot that you're gonna drag your clients to the other tax-paying clients, and you might as well shut down. Rather, it shows the effort to maintain this grant title at all costs. When its current form is no longer sustainable, there is an effort to completely change it, but to leave the opportunity to spend three billion taxpayers a year. And I think that's what this bill is all about. But I will also discuss it with my political opinion in the general debate. Perhaps it would be worth wondering if these billions could find a more meaningful application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u5	This was the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. I am now opening a general debate in which two Members have joined, and once again Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u6	Thank you for the time I was able to exchange documents. Now I'm gonna look at this from a different angle than my intelligence report. Let me introduce you to my personal and political opinion. Investment incentives are clearly distorting the market due to the acquisition of competitive advantages. They confer an advantage on those who receive an incentive over those who do not. They can then offer cheaper services, products or, for example, give higher wages and drag workers at a time when there is a shortage of workers. The beneficiaries of the investment incentives, with the support of the State, can be used to cannibalize other entrepreneurs and firms in the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u7	Then I will ask you to remain calm, honourable Member, so that the Member can speak calmly. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u8	It was not even clear that investment incentives would lead to an increase in business opportunities for existing Czech companies in the area, which is also the content of the explanatory report. It is no wonder that most entrepreneurs consider investment incentives to be an unfair environment and an unfair game, because most entrepreneurs do not touch incentives or even consider it. Investment incentives are therefore an inefficient instrument and a discriminatory instrument. Investment incentive from my point of view makes sense only in very extraordinary cases, for example, in obtaining a really extraordinary business opportunity, for example, if the Czech Republic wanted to bring Silicon Valley into our territory or if a region were affected by some disaster and there would be a need for rapid investment. The question is whether we can put exceptionality and extraordinaryness in uniform terms and one law. Supporters of investment incentives claim that we need incentives because we are competing with other states and incentives are our competitive advantage. Of course, investments as such come to many states without incentives. Austria, Norway, Great Britain, these are countries that almost do not provide investment incentives, as the MIT itself admits in the RIA report. I believe that our competitive advantage rather than investment incentives should be something else: low taxes, reduction of compulsory contributions, a stable and friendly business environment, low levels of regulation, efficient government and quality infrastructure. That would be a competitive advantage for our state. This would help everyone, not only those who want to come to us, but also those existing companies and entrepreneurs who do business here. And it wouldn't just take time to get a special investment incentive. [[13.00 hours]] From low taxes stable and especially friendly environments, from low levels of regulation, from effective government and high-quality rapid infrastructure development in recent years, we have been moving very, very far away. The atmosphere in the business environment tends to thicken and the state tightens screws and then gives some selected companies subsidies or investment incentives. But, on the other hand, the MPO is figuring out how to give someone these benefits and subsidies. I want to mention here that only less than a percentage of entrepreneurs use grant titles. And the investment incentive, as I said here in my intelligence report, is nothing more than a grant title defined by law. That's all it is. A July survey by the Chamber of Commerce showed that 70 percent of entrepreneurs believe that an investment incentive is an unnecessary distortion of the market and an unacceptable State interference in a fair business environment. According to a survey by the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers together, e.g. with the Centre for Civil Liberties and Business Unions, no company under 50 employees received an investment incentive. Zero. So investment incentives are a tool to benefit only the big companies, at the expense of the small ones. The submitters argue that the existing investment incentives no longer fulfil their purpose and are outdone, that they are not effective and that they have increased the shortage of market workers and have contributed to low productivity growth. I agree and agree with this statement by the petitioners. But instead of using the opportunity to discuss whether or not to have investment incentives at all, or to have them as a really special instrument, the focus of investment incentives and the subsidy title, which costs CZK 3 billion a year, remains. But you can't label extraordinary. In advance, you can hardly define the exact conditions of extraordinaryness and exceptionality. So we are really only witnessing a change in the grant title instead of discussing its importance. Against the background of this law, the dispute between bureaucracy and government - who is to be the ultimate arbiter, who will decide who will be granted a competitive advantage, i.e. an investment incentive. A mechanism has come into the bill that the government has the final say, which will somehow decide whether or not the person who meets the conditions will receive an incentive. It reminds a little bit of a baby rhyme after that. She gave it to him, too, little, nothing. On the other hand, the government will bear political responsibility for its decision. On the other hand, bureaucracy and, for example, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, whose members are frequent beneficiaries of subsidies, support automatism. You will meet the defined conditions and you are entitled to a grant, i.e. an incentive. It is transparent, but without political responsibility. This dispute shows in full nudity how harmful grant titles are. The biggest dispute is about who decides to grant the benefit. Efficiency and neediness go away. So we're in a schizophrenic situation. And I ask if companies would work without investment incentives, because foreign companies receive incentives, but also Czech companies receive investment incentives, the big ones. Whether they would do business in the Czech Republic without investment incentives. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Of course I do. This is expected especially for large companies that are based in the Czech Republic. And would it be loss-making without investment incentives? If so, they can't build their business on subsidies. If not, this is only about gaining a competitive advantage over others, at the expense of all taxpayers. And that's why I'm asking the question again. So are investment incentives effective? Shouldn't they rather be canceled? And will they become effective after the proposed change? The government claims that it wants to support primarily sectors with higher added value. That's not a bad idea at first sight. Quite seriously. But let's see how it goes into practice. The government has chosen technological centres and centers of strategic services. By the way, these are services that can go very quickly and casually to another country after the end of the investment incentive. You can quickly move servers, data, know-how and actually employees. Almost snapped my finger. The explanatory memorandum states that the income tax discount, which is the main investment incentive, is not sufficiently incentive for the centres. Therefore, the government comes with the softening of the conditions for these centres concerning, for example, the calculation of jobs in the company to an establishment, the increase in the limit of the financial contribution, or new jobs can also be occupied by residents long-term resident in the European Union, i.e. foreigners. Which is spicy in a situation where companies that already have centres of shared and strategic services are turning to us and to me personally, that they currently lack qualified Czech workers on the labour market and ask for simplification in connection with the amendment of the law on the employment of foreigners, so that they can drive more and employ foreign workers. [[Constantly a lot of noise in the hall.]] So now we're gonna pay them extra. And once again, the new centers will cannibalize the other centers in terms of workers. And I leave aside the government's efforts to continuously increase civil servants by thousands, which also sucks out other employees. So the government decided to be a labour market luxury. But who will pay for this in the future? Those who don't get a tax discount. [[The speaker waits for the noise to pass in the hall.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, it's a little loud...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u9	I understand. Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to ask for peace in the Chamber, or transfer your meetings outside so that the Member can continue to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u10	Thank you. I know I may be too long for you, but it is still a fundamental change in the law that costs CZK 3 billion from the state budget, and I want to give you all the arguments I have to make, so thank you for your attention. One of the other basic new conditions is that at least 80 per cent of employees will have a gross wage at the level of the average gross wage in the region. They say that's proof of the higher value added. In fact, thanks to the investment incentive, the beneficiary can afford to pay more wages for the same service than a similar company in the area without incentives, at a time of record low unemployment, when there is a shortage of workers, and once again there will be cannibalisation of the workforce thanks to investment incentives. And the open question remains when some of their employees will be replaced by agency workers to get their average. And this is how we could continue, and I could continue on and on, despite the fact that selected centres and centres of strategic services have the opportunity to draw direct subsidies from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. That's often forgotten. So let me get this straight. The government is clearly claiming that the existing incentive system is bad, ineffective and long overtaken. She gets credit for that. Really. However, instead of using this space to have a serious discussion about the abolition of investment incentives and about their extraordinaryness and about the discussion on the overall competitiveness of the Czech Republic and the friendly business environment, they are thinking about how to maintain a grant title. More flexible, because its specific parameters should be changed by the government's regulation, but it is only a grant title. So it's better than it is, but much worse than it could be. This amendment to the Act is only an effort to maintain the law at any cost in a situation where the original standard and scheme of support for projects are already overcome. This is an effort to artificially sustain investment incentives when their original declared target, unemployment, ceased to be a problem. We really need to reconsider, and from that we are here whether and how incentives to give or possibly not to give. The law thus created, in whose explanatory reports the urgency of its adoption and the obsolescence of the existing standard is emphasized, merely encourages the law to abolish at this time completely and to submit a new one completely to a new discussion. Defend or not defend its form from the very beginning. I think we owe it to taxpayers after years of running investment conditions. [[13.10 hours]] In many places, the MIT openly admits that the existing standard is outspokenly outspoken. That's the kind of thing we agree on. So let's cancel the investment incentives in the current form of the subsidy title and have a new conversation when I use the words of my colleague Bláha, together over the clean table. Let's cancel at least one tool that curves the market. Since the Government has not examined the possibility of abolishing investment incentives and replacing them with an exceptional instrument, I considered proposing to return the amendment to the recast. In the end, I won't. I do not want to prolong the existence of existing investment incentives because they are really bad. Instead, I will propose, at second reading, an amendment leading to the repeal of this law. It is precisely so that without the trap of the schemes of grant titles in which we are moving, we can consider how we could possibly use this mechanism or not use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u11	Thank you, too. I welcome everyone to the final part of today's meeting. And please, with Mr Bláha's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Vojta for the introduction. I'm sure I can agree with him, we have a similar opinion, we work on the Economic Committee. I hope that because the MIT opened it, we can discuss it and move it to that plane. I just want to draw attention to one thing that we should be aware of and that no one here is saying. Under the guise of prosperity and rising money, rewards, etc. we got to 2019, which we started for entrepreneurs in the worst sense. We've grown 20 percent in energy, 150 percent in investment money, i.e. interest on the money that companies borrow has gone up in an uncontrolled way and combined with a deadly combination of today's already high, or always high salaries for employees we've gotten to a whole other place than we wanted. We're short of qualified labor, and we're not replacing it with what's being sent here by buying from abroad. Most of today's companies form companies into nine employees. There's no way to hire someone from the other side of the world. So what's happened since New Year's? Firms stop development, stop investment, stop innovation, do not take new orders, cancel old orders. And believe that within a few years, this will manifest itself as a decline in the economy, thus a decline in jobs. So it's a challenge for the MPO to think about it, and together, we're gonna find these support programs to move this whole thing forward. Otherwise, we don't have to put in place area subsidies or -. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u13	Thank you, and I am now asking you for Mr Skopeček's debate. And once again, I would ask the House for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will sum up very briefly what my previous speaker Vojtěch Munzar, rapporteur, said here. I believe that investment incentives should end entirely, not that we should look for ways in which this interventionist way of treating the state to the market should be modified. In my opinion, investment incentives created and create an unfair competitive environment, where, on the one hand, richer large foreign companies often gain benefits such as tax holidays or subsidies for jobs, while small and medium-sized Czech companies that are supposed to compete with them, of course, not only do they not get these investment incentives, not only do they not touch them, but de facto also in the form of taxes those large corporations that are lucky enough to subsidize them. Small Czech companies are in a far worse position than the wealthy large corporations that receive subsidies from the state budget. Often they are companies that have a greater turnover than the volume of the entire state budget, and this at first glance shows that it has no logic. The problem of the Czech Republic is not great unemployment, that we should attract other and other foreign corporations to the Czech Republic and subsidize their jobs. The problem of the Czech economy is the lack of Czech capital, the lack of companies owned by Czech entrepreneurs, and the high problem, especially in times of crisis, is the flow of dividends from the Czech Republic abroad, when the foreign corporations that we subsidize here by investment incentives download profits abroad. I don't want to encourage us to regulate this dividend drain, no way. If we gave the investor a chance to invest in the Czech Republic, then we must accept that he is collecting profits and not reinvesting all of them in the Czech Republic, but he will download some of them abroad. However, in order to reverse this trend, it is necessary to help Czech entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, middle firms to grow stronger, to become more successful, and to become, for example, international corporations that will operate on several markets, and one day they will be those who will receive subsidies from their foreign phillials to the Czech Republic. So if we want to address the lack of Czech capital in the Czech economy, then we need the Ministry of Industry and Trade to come up with measures that will improve the business environment in the Czech Republic, which will reduce the administrative and regulatory burden especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who, of course, face this far more than large corporations, which have much more resources and human capital. Thus, our aim should not be to improve investment incentives so that better foreign companies receive them in quotation marks, but our aim should be to cultivate the business environment in the Czech Republic so that both Czech and foreign entrepreneurs operate here without any subsidies, without favouring it or the entrepreneur, but to give it to these entrepreneurs to each other on the market without any regulation and without artificially creating any advantage to anyone. That should be the aim of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This would result in Czech capital growing here, which is really a vital and important thing for our economy and a goal. And I think that we could all agree on it, and this socialist interventionist way of interfering with the market will definitely be abolished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u15	Thank you for your attention, too. With a point of fact, Mr Bláha is once again registered. Before arriving at the microphone, I would like to tell you that we are apologized to Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček for work reasons today. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u16	I've only had a short time. I like how colleagues can talk great about what should be done, but they forget what has been done. So I'll just remind you. A millionaire tax imposed in times past governments, I will not name it, it is not necessary, so it persists until today, which I blame the Minister of Finance, and no one wants to cancel it. And just so you know, the millionaire tax is affecting the smallest businessmen, because they are paying the millionaire investment tax, i.e. If he buys a machine, he'll pay the millionaire's tax. Well, that's supporting the business. I'm gonna initiate the MPO to deal with it, and we really did. I'd just like to add to the subsidies and investments. Yesterday I attended a meeting of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, where there were various representatives of small associations. And one of the biggest tears there was that they wouldn't be able to reach the subsidies right now, that even industries like nanotechnologies wouldn't be able to enter those grant projects, and they could really use some kind of research program. Of course, I've been thinking about it, and now my colleagues have motivated me. I think that one of the things that we could move from these investments is joint research for all companies, i.e. to do joint research funding and sharing research stuff. Of course, there would be a number of other possible innovations, but one thing is clear. Just the way subsidies and investment incentives work today is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u17	I also thank you for keeping time. I beg Mr Skopeček, who is next to come forward with a point of fact, the last one at this time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u18	Thank you for your attention. I would like to ask my fellow speaker what he meant by the millionaire tax, if he meant the solidarity premium proposed by the opposition to abolish the tax package in recent negotiations, which was not voted out by his ANO movement along with the entire coalition. And I'd like to ask how my colleague Bláha voted, or what millionaire tax he meant, whether it's a solidarity premium or anything else, because now he's complaining about it, but the moment he could cancel it, his entire club, along with the government coalition, was against it. So I just want to make it clear what my colleague was really saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u19	Thank you. I ask that we turn to my fellow Members through the President, and at this point I will invite Mr Ferjenčík, who is duly registered, to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u20	Thank you for the floor. Pirates are not big fans of investment incentives, but it must be said that the proposal improves the current situation. At this point, there is a law that, in our opinion, is worse than the proposed one, even in relation to the added value of the subject of incentives, so for that reason, we support this proposal to be read again. Otherwise, we think that the government should focus primarily on other areas. For example, my colleague Martínek discusses intensively with ministries the idea that start-ups would receive a discount on social insurance, such as Poland, which would make business in the Czech Republic easier and enter into business. We have proposed an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, and that all employees pay CZK 5,000 a year in taxes and keep it in their paychecks. These are also things that simply support the economy, and we think that they should have greater priority than investment incentives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u21	Thank you, too. That is all the debate at the moment. If no one else applies to the debate, I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether there is an interest in final words. [[Yes.]] Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all the objections that have been raised here, and I would like to say one thing at the end. The government of the Czech Republic and I personally are very well aware of how problematic the current law is, and it is really very difficult for me personally when investment incentives under the current law come to my approval. I really can't be suspected of wanting to crook the market. I personally did business in several small and medium-sized companies before I joined the government, and I know exactly what it meant when investment incentives came in. I would like to say that we have also considered whether to repeal the law or to prepare it for such a fundamental amendment, and even after discussing with employers' and business associations, we have decided that we will make an amendment precisely so that we can, on the one hand, not say that we had to, but may in some cases be able to settle the conditions with neighbouring countries or with countries that could compete with us in certain investments, and on the other hand, so that we can actually treat the really extraordinary situations that may come, and the government should have the conditions for doing so. Indeed, it is not the least interest to distort the market and massively provide investment incentives from the point of view of this government. The need for such a law is what I think it is, and that is why we are presenting it in this amendment, and it is certainly not the aim of spending taxpayers' money. I would perhaps still mention reducing the administrative burden. The CzechInvest organization is set up under the MIT for investment incentives, and at this very moment we are reducing investment incentives to a minimum quite significantly the number of employees and the focus of this agency. So I would really like to appeal to you to give support to this law both at this first reading and subsequently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u23	Thank you for this final word. I have here with Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact, but it is no longer possible to speak, but I suppose you want to say something that is not on the subject. [[He says he wants to be repaired.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u24	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to fix myself. In my speech, I told my colleague Tomáš Martínek, but I meant my colleague Martin Jiránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u25	Thank you, and now please, with the rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u26	Thank you. I think that clearly investment incentives distort the market, because either the company that obtains a competitive advantage does not have to pay taxes, it has tax holidays, so it can compete by offering its services and its products at a lower price, or it can offer higher wages thanks to this advantage, thereby sucking workers and the labour market out of its surroundings. So clearly, investment incentives distort the market. Therefore, we should address the effectiveness of investment incentives at all in future readings. Madam Secretary here says that they have considered the option of abolishing investment incentives. Unfortunately, it was not entirely observed that this option, even if it was rejected, with reasons for being rejected, would be part of the explanatory report and our underlying materials. I just want to stress that it is not something aimed at emergency situations, this law, because it is aimed at supporting purely technological centres and centres of shared services, which quickly, simply, you can move somewhere abroad, because, as I said here, servers, know-how and workers can simply relocate from the Czech Republic, so the question is whether the support of these services will actually increase efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u27	Thank you. I believe that no proposal has been tabled which we should now vote on return or rejection, and therefore we will consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, we would proceed to the vote. I think they're all present. So I'm taking the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 150 Members and Members registered in the 109 vote, for 134, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Mr Munzar, then Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u28	I would also like to propose a budget committee, because we are talking about three billion crowns a year, which are the impact on the state budget, particularly on the revenue side, if tax holidays are present. So I think the Committee on Budgets has something to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u29	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Skopeček had the same proposal, so we will no longer... Is there any other proposal for another committee? If this is not the case, we shall take the vote again. I am opening the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 150 Members and Members in the 110 vote, for 70, against 10. The motion was not accepted, so we did not order another committee. I do not believe that proposals for shortening or extending the deadline have been made, so that the discussion of this point is over and I will see him at second reading. Thank you. And now I have an announcement that Mr Richter would like to speak with some sort of correction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make my mistake in Houses of Document 2042, when we voted in favour of the resolution on the management of Members' clubs, where I accidentally mentioned 2018 instead of 2019. I apologize for this, and I would like to record for the tape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-014-037.u31	Thank you. It's recorded for the record. I hope this doesn't lead to any questioning, and we all knew we were voting on the rules for this year. And now I would open another point, which is point number
