ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u1	227. Unpaid enterprises privatized by the governments of ODS, ODA and KDU-ČSL between 1992 and 1998 I'll ask my colleague Krejza to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. Then I would call on someone to sit for me at the rapporteur's desk. A colleague of Valenta is enrolled in the debate. When I want to get out, I'm gonna ask my colleague Pikal to relieve me for a while. Now, then, Mr Valenta. Before taking the floor, Mr Profant apologizes from 9:00 to 9:30, respectively. Excuse me, he's here, and co-worker Koten will be here in 11 o'clock. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time after I have been enrolled, it has occurred to me. My performance won't be short, it won't be long, I think it'll be enough. I would like to introduce you to some of the aspects that took place in the framework of the privatisation project in the framework of the large privatisation, the coupon privatisation in the Czech Republic. We are here today to discuss these suspicious aspects of the privatisation process. Some right-wing parties, such as the ODS, KDU-ČSL, can not be meant for this whole process, but neither the defectors from their ranks to the TOP 09, under whose curate they took place, are proud. On the contrary, I would say. And it is only to the bad luck of all honest citizens that there is no specialized workplace in the Czech Republic so far that such robberies, tunnels, frauds, misuse of information in trade, violations of obligations in the management of foreign property and many other serious economic crimes would concern and event. Instigated criminal prosecution of the perpetrators of the time. The criminal behaviour in the style of Viktor Kožený or Zdeněk Bakala in any civilized society simply suffer, and even the limitation, i.e., can not be excused. And that is what right-wing parties should take care of. Even thanks to their contribution, private property today may be built even more than human life. [[10.10 hours]] Personally, I can imagine that a certain office of documentation and investigation of privatization crimes, which has melted into a black hole of hundreds of billions, would not be without work today, and its activities would certainly return to the state budget at least a fraction of what has been broken down by fraudulent acts of gigantic state property, or directly, and I am not afraid to say it, has stolen. For your information, as part of a large privatisation, state property worth CZK 1,200 billion has been redistributed. 342 billion was the value of the assets privatized by coupon privatisation and the real estate of CZK 107 billion was transferred to the municipalities free of charge. And perhaps this is the only item that could be considered to be a low problem, perhaps even justified, by the optics of an honest person. Ladies and gentlemen, really messed up by privatization, sometimes unintentionally, but mainly intentionally caused by privatization fraud, often but only by dusty thieves, it has been possible to record countless in the last three decades in our small country. I personally come from and live in Pilsen, and so I will try to recall at least the most vicious cases of billions of privatization machinations that have taken place there and still raise a number of suspicions. You certainly know how you sit here, the significant Plzeň engineering large enterprise Skoda. Unfortunately, it all started here with a suspiciously bad privatization model, diplomatically speaking, although personally I would not be afraid to use even such terms as fraud, theft of state property, tunneling and so on. But from the very beginning. In 1992 he entrusted Klausův' government cabinet, which he was reading at the time, among other things, 14 members of the ODS, five members of KDU-ČSL and some of the other, the largest Czech engineering company, Mr. Lubomír Soudek, who then, seven years later, brought the world-famous factory to practically collapse. It was then forced to return to the shoulders of the state, which subsequently placed another capable barrel in its forehead, a barrel in quotation marks, Martin Roman. Back then, a fresh 30-year-old probably under the positive impression of his professional experience in managing a company for the sale of potato chips Wolf, at least then for someone, prepared Škoda Plzeň for the second privatisation. And that's what the state group has really put on its shoulders. By the way, it was exactly the same Martin Roman, who sponsored political parties directly from ČEZ's budget according to the explicit statement of the then foreign minister Karel Schwarzenberg, from 2011. Although the ex-minister's words lacked sufficient evidence, it has become a serious accusation that classified money flows could mean significant tax evasion by receiving political entities. It is a great damage that colleague Schwarzenberg, in defence of his claim, stated only that the TOP 09 did not receive a crown from the richest state official in Roman Czech Republic. Perhaps that is why he had spoken this way before, but he did not concrete his suspicions any further. According to Respekt, some of the group could have received money from ČEZ, for example from overpriced purchase of solar power plants from Amun.Re or from suspected foreign investments of a semi-state enterprise. But it is clear to the sun that Mr. Martin Roman has never been a fan of the Communist Party, and he has never been an ideological or kosher to us. So now all we have to do is ask what kind of power money was draining at the hands of the democratic parties. But it's just on the edge. Let's get back to škodovka. In 2002, 2003, when Bohuslav Sobotka was responsible for the administration of state property, Škoda acquired shares already in debt for just CZK 800 million, an opaque Appian group, which was still a smart-looking American investor. It turned out, however, that it was supported by a group of Czech financiers who traded money weirdly pulled out of the state Mostec coal company, which Appian completely benevolently enabled by the financial incest silently behind the state's back. And the endless sale of family silver concentrated in Škodovka could start at the fullest. 2004 - sale of nuclear engineering, hut, forge, subsidiary company Škoda Gear and Slovak Železiarní Podbrezová. Then followed the sale of Damage Research and finally energy engineering. Overall, the proceeds from the sale climbed to an estimated 15 billion. And yet Appian retains the Škoda Transportation Damage Jewel, and the company Škoda Investment managing corporate reality, which, by some chance, has received a bold subsidy for the development of the factory complex. Very interesting. And now let's just sum up and straighten out. The year 2002 when the state sells Škodovka for just CZK 800 million, and 2004, i.e. two years later, when the new private owner sells - now I stress - only some and less lucrative corporate property portfolio races for the aforementioned CZK 15 billion. Both amounts are then simply deducted, naturally the lower from the higher, and we will find out how to work effectively with state property, at least according to the imaginary economic textbook of our democratic right. So, state sales for 800 million, private sector earnings for 15 billion. Very nice profit, don't you think? The example of Škodovka thus clearly proved that it can be made very easily and opaquely. But only with the negligible detail that the multibillion-dollar profit from the sale of a world-famous enterprise is now stored in a private pocket. That the citizens were sharpened again? So, who's gonna care in a couple of years, right? We have other concerns here. And the communists are still haunted, so why don't we try to wipe out the state they brought to 1989 in some kind of fight against them? When the woods fall, splinters fly. The described case of Škodovka is therefore a clear, very simple and, in my opinion, an indisputable illustration of how the state's assets were being entrusted to us during the privatization period. And it's completely indifferent that this parasitic-Thieve process has re-started mostly the blue cabinet and has been perfected by someone else, though dressed in another political jersey. After all, the opposition agreement was good for something. But seriously. All those guilty are involved in stealing from the nation in this pseudo-democratic or wannabe privatization way in any way. This must not be forgotten and should not be distracted in another direction. And I expect that this will be the case on the part of some of my right-wing colleagues today. That is why, and I am announcing this in advance, and I am announcing, I will not be involved in any further discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you'll recognize that for the entire Plzeň Region, for which I was elected to the House, there would be one, only such a big and loud example for your illustration probably little. Therefore, I will continue for a while and borrow for my further argument the case of the next world and years ago also a cleverly tangled enterprise, Plzeňský Prazdroj. What about him then? By the end of 1991, a debate started on how to privatise the Pilsner breweries as quickly as possible. It was not long before the courtship of a very lucrative and unindebted brewery and Japanese Nomura took place in the following year. As representatives of the statutory bodies of breweries then assisted by two politicians - Vlastimil Tlustý from ODS and Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then firmly anchored in KDU-ČSL. So it may be no wonder that, in mid-June 1992, a contract arrived at the Ministry of Agriculture, according to which Nomura is to be the so-called privatization consultant of breweries and receive 2% of the sales price. Very suspicious and tragicomic, but precisely illustrate the whole fraudulent privatisation process in the Czech Republic, was that the currently mentioned contract had already been in force since May of the same year and no one even bothered to explain this contradiction and the upcoming criminal report did not even leave the Ministry of Agriculture's drawers. Can we say, political pressures? [[10.20 hours]] The courtship was terminated by a privatisation process, which directed 70 percent into coupon privatisation. Pilsen breweries, already renamed Pilsen Prazdroj, then easily dominated by the purchase of IPB shares. This happened not long before March 4, 1998, when the entire IPB bought the already mentioned Nomura for 2.5 billion. Now, listen, a day later, IPB transferred 84 percent of the brewery shares to the Czech Beer Company and in return received CZK 7.2 billion from it. However, the bank paid itself as it lent the sum in exchange for notes to Bank holding companies, CzechTrade and Prosper International on 12 March. These three companies transferred the money to the account of Czech beer, which then returned it to the IPB. You may find this process very difficult to understand quickly, but do not be mistaken, everything was done in just that time, and now listen, 14 minutes - 41 minutes, I'm sorry for the misrepresentation. But it's enough. 41 minutes is not so much of a difference. But the whole case had a sequel. The exchange left in the hands of the IPB of a total of 9 billion proved worthless. Shortly after the bank crash, a contract emerged, according to which only worthless shares of IPB can be paid for the notes. She's lost more than 7 billion at the store. Nomura, on the other hand, won 22 billion and then sold the entire company to the South African group SAB. When ČSOB took over IPB's assets, a criminal complaint was filed against the traders. Investigator Jiří Tvrdý accused eight protagonists of this business of credit fraud, violations of obligations in the management of foreign property and misuse of information in trade. pán Tlustý and Kalousek, despite suspicions of conflict of interest, which represented their relations with Nomura, became members of the MP's committee for investigating the collapse of the IPB and colleague Kalousek even its chairman. The Commission then described the failure of the state authorities to privatise and control the IPB, but somehow neglected the fact that the bank was a creditor of ODS and ČSSD at its time, and did not mention the possible responsibility of politicians in the loss of Prazdroj or for other banking tunnels. Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that the 1990s, especially for the Presidenting of Václav Havel, the Prime Minister of the then ODS President Václav Klaus, under the virtually unlimited rule of the right, there have been huge property transfers in our country, which have not only damaged and robbed citizens of our country as a result, and have subsequently had a clear share in the stagnation of their standard of living for many years, that they have not even been implemented under the laws of our country, which have been rapidly tailored to the elites at the time, at the expense of most of society. The all-embracing and all-pervasive clientelism and the long-standing integrity of guardians of the idea doctrine of social injustice, who participated in these thievings and had their effective share, have not yet allowed an objective critical assessment of this entire political stage of our society's development. And since it is a history of modern times, not too far from us, justice can still be helped in many ways. The citizens of our country will certainly appreciate this positively. There was no state property back then, and even today there is nothing worse than private property. After all, our Constitution speaks of the equality of property forms, and therefore we cannot prosecute thefts and frauds in private ownership other than thefts and frauds committed on the property of all of us, on state property. Let us try to do something together, though some of us will certainly prevent it for logical reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u3	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. Mr Jan Lipavský is now registered with a factual remark. I've got him logged in here, a colleague of Bartoš was there before, so I guess there's been a mistake. Who's next for the debate? Mr. Chairman of the OKD Investigation Commission, Mr. Černohorský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I would only have a small alternative to the Communist Party's proposal for a resolution, or a motion for a resolution, that the Chamber of Deputies notes that between 1992 and 1998, there was a privatisation of assets, etc., so I propose a change in the final date from 1998 to 2005. The point is that I personally find it a little hypocritical to vote that only until 1998 were there bad privatizations and that there was essentially the dismantling of state property. The Supreme Audit Office also pointed out this issue in 2003, which carried out checks on the National Property Fund, when it controlled the period 1997 to 2001. It's the 0230 checkpoint, I'm not gonna read it here, it's got about nine pages, if you can look it up for yourself. And it is there that it draws attention to a rather strong error in the National Property Fund, which continued just after 1998. It could, of course, be named after that year 1998 another essentially bad sale of the Czech state, which was essentially orchestrated on the National Property Fund. It could be OKD, Mostecká coal and more. So I would suggest that we change the date from 1998 to 2005. I choose 2005 because, of course, the National Property Fund was lost that year at the end of 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u5	Thank you, Mr Cernohorska. Now allow me to load the apologies that have come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Jelínek from 9 to 9.30, Mr Jan Farský between 14.30 and 19.00, and Mr Jakub Janda from 14.30 to the end of the day. I'm going to ask my colleague Pikal to relieve me, and I'm going to join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u6	Yes, I'm taking over the chair. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u7	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief. I will first comment on the proposal by my colleague, Mr Černohorský. Our point was called Privatisation Crimes from 1992 to 1998, because at that time there were the greatest losses. It was also concerned that last year the 20-year limitation period for these matters had expired. The aim of our resolution is point II, which we quote, means that it should be adopted - that the government prepares amendments to criminal law, not only to criminal law or to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which would lead to privatisation actions that were contrary to the law after 1999, can be further resolved and punished. I have no objection to the extension of the resolution, I agree with it. It just doesn't really concern the period we're assessing here, but if the Chamber of Deputies agree to it, I'll be glad. Allow me to supplement my speech on 9 May, when I presented the resolution, and then, in a detailed debate, I will repeat it again with the change made by my colleague, Černohorský, because I accept it. But the basic numbers that are given by the find of the Supreme Audit Office, which really dealt with it, and the cost of transformation, i.e. the costs to be borne by the so-called privatisation, amounted to CZK 577 billion 500 million. Forced administration cost citizens of the Czech Republic - forced administration of IPB - CZK 200 billion. Losses on the privatisation of Chemapol are calculated at CZK 16 billion 900 million. One of the first privatizations relating to the year 1992 to 1993, Book Wholesale Prague, CZK 21 million, which basically started out the way state property was sold, and then the privatizers had it back for selling one house. As far as ANEX-CIRUS is concerned, these are the famous parachutes, which cost CZK 150 million. The modernization of the T72 tank, which was actually linked to the privatisation of some companies, cost 13 billion crowns. [[10.30 hours]] The barracks on the square of the Republic that sold the state and actually went through the sale because the penalty in the contract cost CZK 400 million, so the buyers of the current trading centre, of course, came to the state property damn cheap. Light fuel oils - 100 billion. As for the Promopro, which is being judged, the loss for the state is CZK 938 million. Opencard - 800 million crowns, Green Prague - 250 million crowns, Wireless Prague - 390 million CZK, Prague - 70 million CZK, arbitration Novy se CME - 10 billion CZK. Anyone who doesn't remember, I'll remember. So Nova herself stood by the international arbitration, not paying it, but the Czech state lost the arbitration on the same documents. As for the Czech House - CZK 26 million, Diag Human - we have already paid CZK 360 million here and the claim that the counterparty claims is CZK 13 billion. I hope we never have to pay for this. This is perhaps the only example that I did not mention in my introductory words when we first managed to include the point - that is, that the Czech law enforcement authorities did not actually deal with the case, they let it go, only on the basis of investigations by Valenta active in the criminal proceedings of the Swiss state, it was simply that the money flows that were taken out of the budget of the Czech Republic had been traced. As far as OKD is concerned, I'll leave it to the committee of inquiry, of course, but the preliminary estimates are at CZK 85 billion. And it started out just like Poldi Kladno, the department of a part that was important to the business. At Poldi Kladno, it was the energy block when the Poldi actually lost the chance to be effective, given that the privatizers of the energy block started blackmailing him, the Poldi brought him down. It was the same in OKD, when the transfer of that part of maintenance, without which no mine could work, actually meant a slump and the strange privatisation that ended up in the hands of the former owners before it had to take over the state. And once again, the Czech Republic, as the owner of the OKD, has been stunned by the 85 billion crowns, the current owner of the OKD, leads the company in profit. This is confirmed only by the words of my colleague Valenta, who said that all forms of ownership are equal and that it is not the duty of the state to privatise anything. And I even think that sometimes it's necessary for the state to keep it. [[Permanent noise in the courtroom.]] And I could talk about other damage that might not have been in billions, but only in hundreds of thousands, such as the Internet to schools, when the loss of the state amounted to nearly a million crowns of 884 thousand. It was calculated that there were also costs that were off. Let me, therefore, repeat my proposal in detail at the end of the general debate in the debate and clarify it, as my colleague Černohorskýý said, that is to say, that we should deal with the resolution and the task for the Government until 2005, i.e. those that the law enforcement authorities in the Czech Republic can still deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u8	I thank the Vice-President. I would ask the House for more peace during the negotiations. Mr Ondráček is now reporting with a point of fact. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Řehounek apologizes to us between 14.30 and 18.00 because of negotiations in the electoral region, Mrs Mračková apologises to us within 13 hours for health reasons, Mrs Pastuchová apologises to us from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just briefly respond to my previous speaker, who spoke of some cases and the fact that the law enforcement authorities have not acted. Yes, the truth is, the law enforcement authority is a department, not a police officer. So the cops who were active at the time in the cases of some that have already been mentioned here were mostly investigations into the former corruption and financial crime detection unit. And at the time of my work, I remember pandurs, times, Mostecká carbonou, but also the case of Opencard or the investigation of the former President of the Supreme Audit Office, when the criminal report was filed by this Chamber of Deputies. It wasn't about the police being so incompetent or not having the will. It was rightly said, they were police authorities, and this is the department of the Police of the Czech Republic. And you will remember some of you who have dealt with some of the cases, remember when the unnamed MP, whom one case has touched, called the then investigator, today's director of the national headquarters, and basically the colonel's officers and the podlukovníků will not be in charge here. So let's just remember that, and let's not throw this filth at the cops. They'd like to, but unfortunately it was time they couldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u10	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm not asking for the final word. Is my colleague Kováčik for me? Neither does the rapporteur. We will proceed to the debate in detail and I will ask Mr Kováčik to present the motion for a resolution after clarification, as my colleague Černohorský said. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, gentlemen, I wish you a good day. I would like to put forward in a detailed debate a motion for a resolution on paragraph 189 and, given that you have heard a proposal in the general debate detailing the proposal by Mr Černohorský, that we, as petitioners or proponents of the point, agree to this point, adopt the extension, so let me now read the modified motion for a resolution, including the amendment tabled by Mr Černohorský. He's got two points. Thus: First, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that a large number of excesses, errors and crimes occurred during the privatisation of state property between 1992 and 2005 which caused damage to property in hundreds of billions of crowns to the Czech Republic and which the governments have not yet resolved and their consequences have not been removed. Secondly, Parliament's Chamber of Deputies asks the Czech Government to process and propose an effective amendment to criminal law so that such acts of privatisation can be prosecuted further and punished so that their limitation does not occur, including an assessment of whether there has been a situation in which the limitation period could not even run. So much, colleagues, the motion for a resolution tabled in a detailed debate, and I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u12	Thank you. Does anyone else have a proposal in a detailed debate? Who's reporting for the debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. There's no interest in final words. We will therefore decide in the vote. I'll sing, I'll give you a chance... I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards so that we can express the will of the Chamber of Deputies in the vote. I'll wait for the number of entries to settle... [[10.40 hours]] We will decide on the motion for a resolution in the vote number 836, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 836 of 123 present for 108, against 12. The motion was accepted. Thank you, rapporteur, thank you, Mr Kováčik, and I finish this point. Outside of the priority points, Mr. Chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u13	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the KSČM parliamentary club, but also on behalf of those citizens of the Czech Republic who rightly point out that during the period mentioned, there were huge injustices, crimes, mischiefs, thank you all for the first time in the history of the Chamber of Deputies having taken note of this at all by voting that something like this had happened. It is a moment that can be evaluated as a light at the end of the tunnel, and it will come to pass for sure, at least I am convinced of it, to the fulfillment of point two, when the government of the Czech Republic will also take such steps in the legislative field, so that the period will not be forgotten and stored in history and that those who rob themselves will be rich so that they can no longer enjoy their fruits. So that the people of the Czech Republic can at least partially get what was stolen back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-002-227.u14	Thank you, Pavel Kováčik. And we will proceed with the approved agenda item
