ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-027-142.u1	142. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other, signed in Brussels on 17. 7. 2018 /house print 348/ - first reading I ask that the opening words be given by the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-027-142.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you for discussion the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan on the other. The European Union and Japan are very close. In 2001, the European Union entered into a strategic partnership with Japan based on common fundamental values. We are united by the sharing of the social values of democracy, the promotion of human rights and freedoms, as well as the preservation of international peace and stability, as well as efforts to liberalise the world economy. Relations between the European Union and Japan are constantly developing from trade and investment to a wide range of dialogues in the context of political cooperation and other sectoral relations. Thanks to its geopolitical position, it is an important ally in the dynamically developing Asia-Pacific region. [[his]] One of the key areas in which the European Union and Japan strengthen their cooperation is security. We're doing business together, too. Japan is the sixth largest trading partner for the European Union with regard to exports of goods from the European Union and the seventh in the case of imports of goods into the European Union. However, a lasting feature of trade relations is the long-term balance sheet deficit on the part of the European Union. Given the strong trade and the expansion of political and security cooperation, the European Union and Japan concluded in 2012 that a high-quality legal framework, preferably a broad political agreement, needs to be given to relations. The agreement should thus strengthen the overall partnership between the European Union and Japan by further deepening political and sectoral cooperation, providing a legal basis for better bilateral cooperation and cooperation within international and regional organisations and fora. This is therefore not a free trade agreement. It was negotiated separately with Japan. In addition to the agreement presented, the so-called Economic Partnership Agreement was discussed, both forming part of a single negotiating body. The agreement presented is a so-called mixed agreement, i.e. some points will be in the competence of the European Union and others within the competence of the Member States. The Government of the Czech Republic agreed to the agreement by order of 19 June 2018. The Agreement was signed at the last EU-Japan Summit in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. The position of the Czech Republic to negotiate the agreement was positive from the beginning. The objectives of the agreement are consistent with our priorities. Japan is an important ally and trading partner of the Czech Republic. This was also confirmed by the recent meeting of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš with Prime Minister Abe in the course of the negotiations of the Heads of Government of V4 and Japan in Brussels on 18 October 2018. The Agreement should serve as a platform for closer cooperation and dialogue on a wide range of bilateral regional and multilateral issues. It strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a wide range of policy areas such as climate change, research and innovation, maritime affairs, education, culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime and cybercrime. It shall also establish a commitment by the Parties to protect international peace and security by preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and by taking measures to combat the illicit trade in small arms, firearms and light weapons. The Agreement establishes a Joint Committee to coordinate overall the partnership based on the Agreement. The content of the agreement is in line with the legal order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the EU, the obligations assumed under other applicable treaties and the generally binding principles of international law. The ratified agreement will then be announced in the Collection of International Treaties in the Czech Republic. This will become part of the legal order of the Czech Republic in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The subsequent implementation of the agreement in the Czech Republic is not expected to have financial or budgetary implications. The agreement will not have an impact on gender equality or on environmental issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this agreement and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-027-142.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Mikuláš Peksa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-027-142.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll follow up with the Minister, who said it very well. I will just recapitulate: on 29 November 2012, the European Council adopted a decision authorising the European Commission to negotiate a framework agreement with Japan. These negotiations were opened in April 2013 and successfully completed in April 2018. This is a mixed treaty negotiated by the European Union together with its Member States. The Union does not have exclusive competence to negotiate the entire content of the Agreement, as they are also the subject of cooperation in areas which fall wholly or partly within the competence of the Member States. From the perspective of the Czech Republic, this is a so-called presidential treaty, which means that the approval of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is needed to ratify it. For the sake of order, I add that the Senate is discussing this treaty and has been included at the Senate's 6th meeting, which means since 27 February 2019. All for me, I guess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-027-142.u5	Thank you. I will just read one cancellation of the apology of the absence of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Tomáš Hanzel, at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 15-16 hours for work reasons, so the cancellation. I am now opening a general debate in which I have no electronic application. I look around, I don't even have an application from where I'm standing, so I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister Staněk? Mr Mikuláš Peksa as rapporteur? You're not interested. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, and I ask if anyone else has a proposal. I can't see. So we will proceed to the vote. I therefore ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 255 registered by 172 Members, for 146, against 0. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. So I'm done discussing this press for the moment. I have an apology here. From 14.30 to 15.30 today, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes for working reasons. We will proceed to the next item on the agenda for today's meeting. This is the point
