ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u1	13. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of the exercise of shareholders' rights /house print 300/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be given by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, whom I hereby give the floor. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a bill amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of the exercise of shareholders' rights. It has already been presented in detail at first reading, so I will just repeat briefly the essential points of the proposal that we have prepared together with the Ministry of Justice. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] The proposal transposes the Directive on the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in a company with quoted shares. The aim of the proposal is to promote the long-term involvement of shareholders in the activities of these companies. The proposal concerns greater involvement of the general meeting in the remuneration process. Companies will also produce a report on the remuneration of managers. This change is intended to bring greater transparency for listed companies and to encourage the involvement of shareholders in their functioning. The General Assembly will further be obliged to approve certain significant transactions with related parties. However, consent is not required for transactions concluded under normal commercial conditions. The second part of the proposal concerns the functioning of -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you. There's a lot of noise in this House. I can't hear what you're saying. [[He's waiting.]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u4	Thank you. The second part of the proposal concerns the functioning of the capital market. The issuer shall be able to obtain through participants in the CSD information on shareholders, e.g. for the purpose of convening a general meeting. In addition, rules shall be laid down for the communication of the issuer with shareholders through participants in the CSD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u5	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 300/1, 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Jan Skopeček, take the floor - who is not present at this meeting, so that, in agreement, Mr Rais will take this role. Since we are at second reading, we do not need to vote on this change. And he informed us about the committee's discussion of the proposal and justified any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u6	Hello. Basically, I would like to present here the resolution of the budget committee of the 21st meeting of 20 March 2019 on the Government Bill amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of the exercise of shareholders' rights, this is the House Press 300, second reading. As you said, after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Dupáková, Mr Skopeček's intelligence reports and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of shareholders' rights be approved, as amended by the following amendments. And like you said, it's basically part of the budget committee resolution, so I don't think we need to read it in the details here. This relates to the clarification in essence of Article III - Transitional provisions, where the duties of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of the issuer whose shares were admitted to trading on a European regulated market before the date of entry into force of this Act are clarified. And it was about putting forward some remuneration policy under Section 121 of Law No. 256. It is essentially a transposition of the relevant European laws, as the Minister has spoken here. The second amendment concerns, in turn, the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of the issuer whose shares were admitted to trading on the European regulated market before the date of entry into force of this Act, so it shall submit a report on remuneration as effective from the date of entry into force of this Act for the approval of the general meeting, which shall also approve the issuer's financial statements for the financial year in which the general meeting was first submitted to the remuneration policy under Law 121. Third, the issuer shall provide the relevant data in the remuneration report in accordance with Section 121. On the basis of the wording of the Act, or Section 121, as effective as from the date of entry into force of this Act, only for the financial year following the date of entry into force. Basically, these are things that respond to the relevant European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u7	I thank you and open the general debate in which Mr Jan Volný is signed up. [[Messenger. Free shall be entered into a detailed debate.]] Sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't notice. You're right. So no one is registered to the general debate at the moment. It's logged in. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. I'm sorry, I didn't look to the right, I'm used to looking to the left. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u8	We need to look to the right, Mr. Vice-President. [[with a smile]] There's a very sleepy atmosphere here. So let's think about what the law is and how quickly it was prepared in Europe. This law responds to the 2008 financial crisis. After eleven years, we are already approaching the implementation of the directive. That we have to implement it, that's true. But the speed is really admirable. The world has changed, but we're dealing with the fact that American banks fell in 2008 and shareholders didn't know how much the management of US banks took. Thanks to this, we propose in the law that the private company discloses detailed information about management salaries - not all shareholders, I completely agree with that, but to everyone. Even those who are not shareholders. I used a company from my region on the budget committee. I don't think I really need to know what the rewards of Kofola's management as a listed company are when I'm not a shareholder. But according to the bill, because we have to implement it, we say that financial stability will contribute, among other things, to knowing what bonuses they have, what life insurance, social insurance, if they have options, if they can buy shares, they can't. [[Nesroz.]] Totally useless. But we've already lost this fight. The directive is in effect. So my speech, or the amendment, is focused on things that are in our Parliament's power and which we can actually adjust. I have tabled three amendments to the Committee on Budgets. One has been accepted. And I am in agreement with the Ministry of Finance - and I would like to thank the Minister for helping me technically and legislatively to write an amendment, although the Ministry does not agree with him in terms of content. I think it is fair to mention this, and I really appreciate this approach, because it is very easy to catch someone on a legislative error and say: that is why it cannot be voted on. I'll try to justify it first. I will not read the various paragraphs of the amendment, it is a rather complicated matter. However, the directive, as amended by the 2017 Directive, explicitly requires quoted companies to develop a remuneration policy for their bodies and shareholders have the right to vote on this policy at the general meeting. There's no problem. The directive also requires measures taken by Member States... the implementation of this rule has been effective. This is important - sanctions for failure to fulfil new obligations must be proportionate and dissuasive under that directive. And in that bill proposal, in the implementation of this directive, the government proposes as a penalty the full freeness of the performance of the board member. Unless a remuneration policy is submitted or if it is non-systemic... unless a remuneration policy is submitted. There's the penalty that the board members work for free. In our view, the sanctions are too severe, and we therefore propose a different sanction. We can't do this without sanctions. The directive, as I said, says that the sanctions must be proportionate and dissuasive. The conditions for the performance of the duties of a member of the Board of Directors are laid down in the provisions of Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Commercial Corporations. Those conditions are purely formal performance... conditions of performance of the function, e.g. Typically, it is integrity or material requirements for the performance of the duties of a member of the Board of Directors, e.g. Typically, it is an obligation to perform a function with proper care. However, the performance of the function itself is a complete activity and according to the Commercial Corporations Act, the remuneration is due by virtue of the performance contract. This means that the company must enter into a contract with a member of the Board of Directors on the performance of the function and that there should be a remuneration paid. The only case where the remuneration is not paid is that it is explicitly stated in the contract that the function is performed without entitlement to the remuneration. For this reason, I suggest that the sanctions should not be private at the moment when this obligation is violated under the directive, that is, not to go to the board members, but to be defined as all the other sanctions in the bill, that is, an offence. And as a misdemeanor, so that the sanctions are also dissuasive, we propose that a fine of up to CZK 10 million can be imposed in administrative proceedings. We believe that this method of sanctions for non-compliance, because it will already be in the law, is effective enough, proportionate enough, hard enough, but systemic enough. This means that it has the character of all the other sanctions referred to in this law, which means sanctions in breach of the law, that it is assessed as an offence. [[18.30 hours]] I'd like you to think about it before the third reading, it seems logical to us. This is certainly not a political issue on the clash of the right - the left, or the government or the coalition. I am actually also based on a debate with owners or shareholders of these companies. Although the obligations are absurd, as I said everyone will read, everyone who doesn't have shares will read what the remuneration policy is, even in very detail in terms of basic salary, reward, life I don't know everything, so that at least the penalty isn't that if it doesn't stick to it, so that it isn't that the performance of the function is totally free. In order to be assessed as a violation with the possibility of imposing sanctions up to CZK 10 million. Thank you. And then in a detailed debate, I will only formally refer to the number of the House press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u9	Thank you. I have no one else in the general debate, and I am ending this general debate. And I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary, the rapporteur? It's not. So I'm initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. The first enrollment is Mr Jan Volný. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. I would take the liberty of signing up here for an amendment that you have in the system under number 2671. This amendment... The point of this simple amendment is that the shareholder, who is also a related party to the transaction, does not remain entirely without influence on the legitimate interests of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u11	Thank you. Vojtěch Munzar enlisted next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u12	Thank you. My colleague Skopeček, who is excused, asked me to read his amendments. One under number 2364. This is because of the adoption of Law No. 307/2018 on bonds needs to be adjusted in the existing draft law numbering, so it is rather a legislative technical change. At the same time, since this law is not expected to be adopted on 10 June 2019, this amendment therefore changes the effectiveness of this law to the first day of the calendar month following its publication. And the second proposal, which is under number 2671 in the system, responds to the fact that the Ministry initially thought that it would be able to approve and discuss the Act on Companies and Cooperatives, which removes from the bodies of the statutory director, but since this law has not yet been discussed in the course of this law, this proposal corrects and returns the statutory director to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u13	Thank you. Does anyone else want to speak in detail? Mr. Chairman, I've been waiting for you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u14	I formally sign up in a detailed debate on House document 2064, which contains my amendment, which I justified in the general debate, and at the same time this justification is part of this document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-014-013.u15	Thank you. And with this, if no one else is interested, I will end the detailed debate and end the second reading of this proposal. The next item is
