ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u1	42. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (Criminal Code), as amended, and some other laws /German press 453/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, please be calm so that the Minister can introduce us to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Government's bill, which amends both the criminal law and the criminal code, and as amended. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] The Justice Department has prepared here a bill whose main objective is to promote the increase in the number of penalties imposed, whether as punishments separate or imposed in addition to other penalties. This is a complex of measures aimed at a higher and more rational imposition of penalties of this kind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. Madam, honourable Members, once again I ask you to create here an atmosphere in which we hear the Minister Benešová. Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u4	In the past, the potential of a cash penalty has not been sufficiently exploited. Basically, between 1994 and 2005, a substantial reduction in the number of cash penalties imposed could be observed. Following a short period of growth, the number of cash penalties fell again from 2010 until 2013, to the historical value of the lowest 3.2 %, which was the subject of criticism. Some of the reasons for this unsatisfactory state in the past have already been responded to, but the reaction of practice has not been satisfactory. A positive change in practice in the imposition of cash penalties took place after 2017, when expert seminars were held for judges, prosecutors, police officers. The aim was to identify the causes of a small use of cash punishment in court practice. All these findings were incorporated into the draft bill submitted. In particular, these are changes to both the substantive conditions for imposing a cash penalty as a result of its failure to execute it and changes to the rules governing its enforcement. It is proposed to abolish the possibility of converting the cash penalty into other alternative penalties. In addition, the abolition of the Institute of Remembrance Penalty. Instead, the unpaid cash penalty will be converted into a prison sentence according to a statutory conversion. The conditions for annihilation in a conviction for a cash penalty are being mitigated. The sentence will in principle be extinguished by the execution of the sentence. At present, practice is such that it must be applied after a year after the execution of this sentence, unless it is imposed for a particularly serious crime, that period of one year will continue to be maintained there. In the field of criminal law, it is proposed to extend the time limits for payment of the cash penalty. It is now stipulated that if it is clear that the enforcement of the cash penalty would be ineffective or could be thwarted, the court does not have to enforce the cash penalty and may proceed directly to its conversion. That's probably the philosophy of this proposal. I would like to ask that this bill, because I consider it necessary and a move for the better, be voted out for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The rapporteur for first reading is Mrs Helena Válková. Madam rapporteur, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President, this is what has been said. I would only like to underline the fact that the cash penalty - and I am already such a historical monument - has always been an orphan among the other criminal sanctions and has been imposed very little. The courts were making excuses for the fact that the composition of the perpetrators was such that it was basically unenforceable. In part, they were right, but the conditions changed, and in a number of cases it could be saved, and it was still not saved. So the situation is not so vastly different. When we compare, 80 percent of all the punishments imposed in Germany, in our neighbor's neighbor's house, are cash, financial punishments. So cash punishment is an absolutely standard in the European Union. Of course, not everyone in 80 percent imposes cash punishment as Němec, but perhaps the Francouz 40 to 50 percent, so I could continue. [[17.40 hours]] We have also introduced in the new Criminal Code, which applies from 1 January 2010, an opportunity to take account of the perpetrator's circumstances and, nevertheless, to maintain some social balance and rigour in relation to the committed crime, when I should say such fair balance and rigour, that means that the poor perpetrator can get equal daily rates for the same crime, but at a different value than when the perpetrator is someone who needs a millionaire. The daily rate he's going to have to pay may be up to CZK 50,000, while for some total loser it could be CZK 100, but since they both committed the robbery, the number of daily rates is the same. We've complicated and messed with the judges' heads. Suddenly we saw that our courts were often unable to work with it at all, with the daily rates, which was a big surprise. As the Minister said, the imposition of financial penalties fell to historical minimums, fines were not imposed. But it wasn't that they couldn't save themselves. They preferred to impose short unconditional sentences or toothless conditional convictions, which accumulated and resulted in their result, when the judge had lost his patience, to transform him into an unconditional punishment for criminal malfeasance. So it led to the fact that they weren't stored. We've repeatedly pointed that out. Those people who are moving in the area of criminal law, I must say, finally also prosecutors and judges understand that it would be good to do something about the higher and high levels of justice. The Minister also stressed this. They did it about two years ago. She started a campaign in favor of financial penalties, respectively. cash penalties, with us the exact name of the cash penalty, § 68 and § 69, and suddenly it began to move. But I have to say, I still suspect the main reason was overcrowded prisons. We just don't have prisons for shorter sentences anymore. We're breaking standards, and in a number of cases, sentences are placed on cells after eight, ten, twelve. I'm sure the Secretary of State will deal with that. At least we talked about it recently. Thus, he led and recorded this novel because I think it is very useful for us to follow the pattern of our Western European neighbours and take advantage of the potential in cash penalties and impose the cash penalty where it is only a little bit possible. And so that the courts don't have it so hard, so they're getting used to, thank God, the daily rates, so of course we leave them there, but at the same time, the mechanism of change is much more simplistic if the perpetrator doesn't do it, he doesn't pay the cash penalty, he violates the terms, he acts in a way that doesn't match the chance he got from the court, so to turn him into an unexecuted cash penalty, always two of those daily rates for one day of unconditional punishment. But the possibility of turning them into other alternative punishments is being cancelled. I'm not gonna tire you out. I think there's a very well-worked Justice Department explanatory note that clearly states that. In connection with this, the Code of Criminal Procedure is supplemented. It is imposed on the courts as well as on the property and personal circumstances of the perpetrator in such a way as not to pay for it, for example, underage children. So I think it's very good. Then the mandatory prior consent of the law enforcement authority shall be introduced in the event that the enforcement of the decision against the secured property is carried out. That's also very good. So he remembers the execution or insolvency proceedings. This is reflected logically, these changes, even in the Youth Law. And now that it's being amended, the regulations are being amended. The Law on International Judicial Cooperation, where, in the spirit of digitization, it is intended to replace the outdated transmission of authentic originals of communications by another, more modern one. Finally, the last thing that newly introduces the possibility of concluding agreements on the sharing of property values by a foreign State in cases where a foreign State, in a significant manner, generally in the provision of large-scale legal assistance, contributes to the criminal proceedings for the provision of property that has become the subject of confiscation. We haven't been able to do that yet. The Government's position on such an amendment is logically positive. I, as rapporteur here, recommend that we approve across the political spectrum and finally include ourselves among countries where we are not all closing, but rather if they commit something particularly in the field of property crime, they are affected by the most sensitive for this kind of perpetrator, and that is precisely by the removal, forfeiture of part of the property, forfeiture of the cause and the imposition of a severe cash penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate to which Mr Feri is reporting from his post. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Ministry very much for this proposal. I think that this will not be a matter in which there will be a great political conflict, because the differences between the imposition of cash penalties not only between the Czech Republic and Germany, but also Hungary and other countries are simply so vast that it is necessary to support it in some way, the deposit. I'm glad the Ministry has processed this really comprehensively, and it will be a matter of smoothing out, which reduces the effects on offenders from the point of view of relapse and so on. So thank you very much for that. I would ask the Minister if she could keep us regularly informed, and the previous Minister, Dr. Kněžínek, has also informed us about the other imposition of alternative penalties, such as the use of bracelets, so that we are regularly informed, if possible, within the constitutional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-005-042.u9	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary, the rapporteur - they are not interested in the final word. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. In this case, the Organising Committee has proposed to order the proposed proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? He doesn't. We can therefore proceed to the vote. We will vote on bringing the proposal forward to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 164 Members registered, for 140, against no one. We have approved the proposal, which means that the Guarantee Committee will be the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Do any of the Members suggest another committee? He's not suggesting. So I conclude that this proposal will be dealt with by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee, and I end with the first reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We will now proceed to discuss another point which is:
