ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u1	192. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2016 /German press 113/ We discussed this point on 31 January at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Mr Petr Dolínek, who is the rapporteur of the electoral committee on this House press, take a seat at the rapporteur's table and take a seat. I would remind you that the resolution of the electoral committee was delivered as House press 113/1. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. And I have a report here for the general debate. Let's continue. So I can make a factual remark to Mrs Helena Langšádlová. So, Mrs Langšádlová is here to make a point of fact, however... [[The MP suggests he doesn't want to get out.]] Not anymore? Okay, I get it, because we've been doing this for the last time on January 31st, so, of course, that's a point of fact, a lot of time has passed since then. So I will invite Mr Jiří Valenta to the general debate, which I have so far signed up as the only one. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It is good that my colleague Langšádlová is still here because my performance will be largely focused on her reply, which interrupted our last meeting. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to my mentioned colleague Langšádlová, who spoke here with the claim that the Czech Television and Czech Radio broadcast analysis mentioned by me in the period before the elections to regional councils and Senate 2016, which was processed by the research department of the Faculty of Social Sciences of Charles CEMS for the Radio and Television Council for several hundred thousand crowns, was extremely poor and incomplete and that this is confirmed by a document to which several universities and sociologists also applied. Yes, the TOP 09 and some others really stepped on the chicken eye in the analysis. But if my colleague Langšádlová explicitly claimed that this analysis was nonsense, and repeated nonsense, I must draw her attention to several aspects in this context. A broad team was deployed to produce this analysis. The main investigator was Dr. Jan Křeček, Faculty of Social Sciences of Charles University. Statistical data processing was provided by Mr. Ondřej Dvouletý-year-old from the University of Economics. They also participated: Jan Jirák, Petra Mílková and other staff and students of the Faculty of Social Sciences. In June 2017, CEMES forwarded the analysis to the Board following the inclusion of a number of comments. In their conclusions, the processors stated: "In the whole of the broadcast news and political-publicist programmes of Czech Television, the political party TOP 09 was favored in the period under review by giving a clear and regular allocation of space to its representatives more than would correspond to the real position of this party in political and social life. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u3	I must ask for your peace, honourable Members. The truth is, I don't even hear exactly what Mr Valenta is talking about here in his place. So I want to ask you once more for peace, if you can hear me. I'm looking left, right. I really want to ask you to calm down so that you can discuss things that are not related to this point, preferably in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u4	Personally, I don't mind the noise, but if I can't hear myself, it's a little too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u5	I again ask for peace, and I wanted to say that I will have to appoint individual Members if they do not quiet down. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u6	Thank you. "On the contrary, the analysis has seen the permanent disadvantage of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, some other non-governmental parliamentary and all non-voting parties." In the case of Czech Radio, the conclusions were similar. Rather, he accepted the results of the analysis and considered them. The analysts then summed up their opinion on possible violations of the law as follows: "On the basis of this analysis it can be concluded that the Czech Television in the reference period in the whole of its broadcast news and political-publicist programmes was violated by Section 31 (3) of Act No. 231/2001 Sb. It is therefore also possible to implement sanctions within the meaning of the provisions of paragraphs 58 to 61 of the cited Act.' It was at the time of publication of this objectively measured result that the resistance of TOP 09 and some others, namely those to which the current unacceptable state of non-transparency, non-objectivity and, above all, unequal access to political entities in the field of news and publicity in the Czech Television broadcasts is appropriate. But let's go back to the statement made by my colleague that there is a document that disproves the results of the analysis. Yes, it is a twenty-five-page material of Czech television, signed by some academics, which says, among other things: "The analysis in question can be considered to be very poor in its methodological and analytical processing. As part of the presentation of the conclusions of the analysis, the authors published a number of contexts of torn out, tendential, inadequately defended and sometimes false claims. For the reasons set out above, the authors of the analysis should be interested in reconsidering the method of drawing up and presenting the analysis in question. In order to preserve their own good scientific name, they should assess whether an apology to Czech Television and the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council is appropriate." You hear me well. "The analysis in its present form would then be more appropriate to take back and publicly admit its shortcomings, which are surprisingly many." End of quote. Personally, however, I believe that this is an unrecorded, unprecedented attack on the scientific freedom of the academic workplace in the Czech Republic, by the public media. At the same time, I believe that everything that is stated in the document by Czech Television is mainly done by the institution itself, that is, it draws from the context, publishes tendential and sometimes very misleading claims and should itself assess whether this is the case for apologies to the citizens of the Czech Republic. In confronting the position of Czech Television and the research workplace of CEMES, we can conclude that there may have been a contradiction in the merit of the assessment. However, the research results remain relevant. While public television is primarily perceived for its practice by the Czech Television Act, CEMES analysed the implementation of the Act on radio and television broadcasting. Specifically: "Stamp 3 paragraph 31 of Act No. 231/2001 Sb., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, reads: The broadcasters are obliged to ensure that the principles of objectivity and balance are taken into account in the news and political-publicist programmes and, in particular, no political party or movements, or their opinions or opinions of individual groups of the public, have been unilaterally favoured in the whole of the broadcast programme, taking into account their real status in political and social life." I add that this is the kind of analysis that the Radio and Television Council has ordered, which oversees its implementation. Compliance with the Czech Television Act is controlled by the Czech Television Council. "Paragraph 2 (a) (2) of Law No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, says: The main tasks of the public service in the field of television broadcasting are in particular: (a) the provision of objective, verified, in its entirety balanced and versatile information for free making of opinions." Surely you feel that the difference between the diction of both laws is clear. As well as the difference in the approach of professional analysts and television producers. [[13.00 hours]] Czech television, however, not only in my opinion, must respect both laws. It even has the Czech Television Code, which makes it easier to manage broadcasting practice. The Council of Czech Television oversees its implementation, as well as the implementation of the Czech Television Act, as I have already said. However, she did not order any analysis on the subject, she only heard the information submitted by Czech Television herself. The Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences of Charles University Jakub Končelík responded to the critical position of Czech Television on the analysis by letter of management of Czech Television, which was not published anywhere. Let's ask why. There was probably no public interest in him, unlike the critical material processed by the Czech Television itself and the opponents of the now defended TOP 09 and some other subjects. The dean did not take back the results of the analysis in his letter. He stood up for a team of processors - I quote: "I find no doubt in the process of awarding the contract, in its course and in the question of assessing the quality of the work by the contracting authority, i.e. the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. " He also responded to all the comments. Some of them sent the television to the wrong address. I continue to quote: "Three out of the ten main comments you make in your letter and then distribute in the attached material, it would be more appropriate to address the caller of the analysis, i.e. the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. " Dean Končelík also opposed alleged errors in statistics: "This is a misunderstand, a mistake on your part. While you mark and continue to count in the section of the rest of all sides outside the six previously mentioned main parties, i.e. ČSSD, YES, KSČM, TOP 09, ODS and KDU-ČSL, the authors make it clear in the comments about the graph that the categories in quotation marks only green, Pirates, SPD-SPO and Dawn, i.e. the parties to which at least some space for speech has been assigned." This is only to illustrate what the opponents of this analysis in my opinion - not quite a layman, but a well-educated cultural and social anthropologist - drop quality material. And at the end of my performance, a very short replica -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u7	Ambassador, it's 13 o'clock, so if you make it in a minute, I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u8	I'll make it. [[The President agrees.]] - a very short replica of a leaving colleague from the Pirates, who ended up here with his protectionist speech towards Czech Television with the word "let's be happy for what Czech television looks like." So, Mr Sklenák, a significant part of society really does not like it, and the fact that some of the multimillion-dollar contracts that the Czech Television is concluding are done with people connected with social democracy does not really justify such a relativizing statement of yours. And if you don't believe me, I recommend you visit the Internet server Watcher of the state that maps all the Czech TV contracts. Likewise, your claim that Czech TV should not be under parliamentary control, as you said on Twitter, is pure nonsense. On the contrary, it must be under parliamentary control. It does not belong either to employees or to various pressure groups, often grafted on television money lines. We can consider the combination of parliamentary control and the civil principle that is here to be optimal, only we must do this as Members of Parliament in good quality, not just every year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u9	So it's 13 o'clock. Before I interrupt and announce a lunch break, I'll read one apology. Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologises between 14.30 and 18 hours for family reasons. So I am interrupting this point, interrupting this meeting. Enjoy your meal and I'll see you at 2:30 p.m. at the p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-20-ps2017-030-11-005-192.u10	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Opening point
