ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u1	299. The draft law amending Act No. 424/2010 Coll., amending Act No. 111/2009 Coll., on Basic Registers, as amended by Act No. 100/2010 Coll., and other related laws, as amended, and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the Processing of Personal Data /Departmental Printing 448/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 448/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Petr Holeček among us. Hello. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Minister of the Interior, please address the amendments tabled and the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u2	Thank you. Hello. I'll be very brief. I would like to ask the House to support this press as approved by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u3	I'm gonna read one more apology. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes from now until the end of the day for family reasons. And now I ask Senator Petr Holeček to take the floor. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Mr President. Hello, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members. I will also be very brief, which I think will be very pleasant for you in this atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u5	I'm going to ask the House for peace because you can't hear what the senator says. We'll wait a little longer. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u6	I can tell you that the real changes proposed by the Senate do not interfere at all with the original government proposal, which, as Minister Hamáček said, has put forward and agreed with. It is merely that the Senate has noted two changes that have been made in the Chamber of Deputies, which means a reduction in the term from three to two years, and then a proposal for the amendment of the Act on the processing of personal data to be basically glued to this law. Both committees that examined this press in the Senate have studied and commented, stating that there is indeed a so-called sticker, and therefore I am here to return the Government's proposal to the fact that, as I repeat, the Senate agrees with the Government's proposal, but asks you to clear this proposal from this sticker. The Constitutional Court also stated that such a way of adding to the law is not right. So that concludes my speech, and I hope you'll lean towards the government's proposal, the Senate's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u7	Thank you. And now I ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Ondřej Profant, wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate, which is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. You are not interested in expressing yourself, so I am opening up a debate. I have an application here. Member Marek Benda reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. The next application is not here at the moment. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u8	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Minister, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, we seem to come to a seemingly calm and trouble-free point where the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior will say: approve as amended by the Senate. I would just like to draw attention to what our senators have voted for in the part that the Senate has returned to us - with all due respect for it, I know that our senators have also voted for it, but unfortunately I do not agree with them in this case - they are negotiating. When approving the Government's draft Data Protection Act, GDPR, we have approved the proposal by Mr Michálek, who is making the Office for Personal Data Protection the call, or what to call it, the review point, the highest place for the Free Access to Information Act. You know what my relationship to the Free Access to Information Act is in general: very, very negative. But I believe that since this House has already imposed this task on the Office for Personal Data Protection and, at the same time, as we have somewhat confusedly approved only one part of the Personal Data Protection Act, or the implementing standard, when we approved one part as amended by the Senate, the other part as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, we have not allowed the Office for Personal Data Protection to create any transitional period at all and we have not allowed it to be completed in accordance with the existing regulations. And now, in this bill proposal, which is true that it is only relatively remotely related to this, even if it simply concerns the protection of personal data, a part is inserted that says: the Office may, on the one hand, appoint its information commissioner a year earlier, which they might be able to do, but above all, says the most important thing: the current proceedings under the Act on Free Access to Information will be terminated according to the existing regulations, not that on 2 January next year everything will fall into office and take care of everything. And unfortunately, I consider this change absolutely right. I wanted to ask the House very much if it would still consider whether it should remain in its original opinion that it was not an adhesive. I know all the case-law on stickers. Even in this House, I was the one who invented the stickers a long time ago in 1999, when the Constitutional Court canceled the funding of political parties from one day to the next, so I was forced to put it into some completely different law so that the political parties could continue to be funded. I know they've been abused a few times since then. I know that the Constitutional Court annulled it in one or two cases, on the contrary, in many other cases it basically passed through silence. This is so that the government cannot be surrounded on budgetary issues, which was the case of the famous abolition of the sticker in the case of banks. And it is about not circumventing the legislative process. But when the Chamber of Deputies introduced three readings with the Guarantee Committee in the last parliamentary term, it is not the same as it was at the time when the Constitutional Court interrupted that a proposal was read here one day on Wednesday and on Thursday afternoon or Friday morning it was voted on and half of the House could pretend it didn't know what it was voting on. Today we always have these 14 days, we always have the petitioner's statement, we always have the statement, if they're there, and in this case the petitioner was the government, that is, in fact, the representatives of the government, we always have the position of the guarantee committee. So playing stickers seems to me to be at least controversial, and it's a bit of a Senate effort, and I say, with all my respect for the Senate, to train us and say, "You can't do this and you can't do this." My point really is that we simply have the úřad for Personal Data Protection, as I may occasionally have a fight with it, so I find it very unfortunate that at the beginning of next year we will completely overwhelm it, causing a completely obvious impossibility to deal with the things that will be directed to it within time limits, and, of course, the potential damage that may arise from maladministration. So I would ask the House to consider, after all, that the Senate version, with all due respect to the Senate, will be dropped and approved by the original MP, because this is what I consider important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u9	Pavel Kováčik will now perform with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me one procedural proposal. If we're so good at it, it's gonna blow our minds, so we believe we're gonna negotiate Senate vomit today. Senators are here, and I'd hate to bother them by coming here sometime during the holidays. Therefore, allow me to propose that we act today and vote in a procedural and meritorial manner on the laws returned to the Senate after 19 o'clock, at the latest until the press meeting 301. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u11	May I ask if this is a proposal of at least one fifth of all Members or two Members' Clubs? [[Member Kováčik: It is on behalf of the KSČM Club and the ANO movement.]] To ensure that this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we would vote on your proposal, and then the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, will be given the floor. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. I'll check you all out on request. Please log in with your voting cards again. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. There is a proposal for three parliamentary clubs, the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement, to vote and act after nineteen o'clock. Am I saying that right? [[Voices from the diaper: Yes.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 365. Registered 164 Members, for 149, against 3. The motion was accepted. Jakub Michálek, Chairman of the Pirates Club, will now perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a little more to what President Benda says. I have to say, I totally agree with him. We have approved here the law that, since New Year's Silvestr, the Office for Personal Data Protection will acquire the scope of the right to information, so-called sakump for everything, starting with the proceedings that are already underway, even those that will be running from that New Year's Silvestr. So at that point, it switches and immediately everything is in the regime, so that the appeal is exercised there as well as the jurisdiction of the review body of the Office for Personal Data Protection. It's an ideal condition for me. Great, great, that's exactly how it's supposed to work. There's one problem. Mrs. Schillerová, who isn't here right now, would have to put the money in order to hire those people, which she didn't, so there are five people who will have to deal with this whole agenda from the start. So the variant that was created at the Office of Personal Data Protection was that it would run for new things and the old ones would be completed according to the previous regulations. That's what was incorporated into the proposal that we were discussing here in connection with the basic registers. For me, it's a bit of a concession to keep the scope of the changes to the information law a little delayed in the running proceedings, so it's just gonna end up there the way it's been up to now, it's gonna be in court and so on, but I respect the fact that the office isn't staffed, so if we don't want it to get wasted there, I think it would be quite responsible to approve it there. On the other hand, I am prepared to live with the fact that it will happen immediately, and I hope that the office will fight it in that case and that the Minister of Finance will proceed responsibly, and that office will equip the number of employees to be able to handle the agenda that is legally entrusted to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-004-299.u13	Now I will look around to see if there is any further interest in the performance. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Yes, the Minister is already pointing at me. I'll ask Senator Petr Holeček if he's interested. You're interested. Please. [[Voices from the diaper: No! General cheer in the hall.]] So think about it, Senator, whether you do or not. [[Senator Holeček: I give up my word.]] All right. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] So we will proceed to the vote. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution requires the consent of an absolute majority of Members present. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 424/2010 Coll., amending Act No. 111/2009 Coll., on Basic Registers, as amended by Act No. 100/2010 Coll., and other related laws, as amended, and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, according to the House's press 448/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House's press 448/6.' I hope we all know what we're voting on. Someone's yelling at me. Is that a check-out request? [[Laughs in the hall.]] No, Mr. Governor. It's okay. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 366. Registered 168 Members, for 121, against 8. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore proceed to the discussion of the next press and this is
