ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u1	207. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 490/ - 3rd reading I'll hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u2	Good evening or good evening, dear colleagues. After a very emotional tax package, we come to the point that was mentioned here, a government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, House Press 490, third reading. We have interrupted the debate on this point before the opening of the debate on Friday 1 November at the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová take the position at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that the amendments are in Parliament's press 490/3, which was delivered on 27 September 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as Parliament's press 490/4. Before opening the debate with priority rights on 1. At the 37th meeting, the following Members signed up: Jan Bartošek, Jan Chvojka, Jan Bauer, who was appointed to represent the club's chairman, and Jaroslav Faltýnek. So I'm asking if they're interested in their speeches and exercising their priority rights. [[He wasn't interested.]] So, since all the preferential rights are given up, I am opening up a debate and in the debate with priority rights for the SPD, Mrs Lucie Šafránková will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u3	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'd like to start with a request. I would like to ask you to support the amendment that I tabled with my colleague Mr Bauer, whose aim is to grant an increase in parental contribution to all parents of all children under the age of four without any differences or exceptions. This request is not only my personal expression, but it is also, or perhaps mainly the interpretation of urgent requests and the wishes of the parents of those children who are to be presented by an amendment from the circle of persons concerned by the increase in parental allowance. Since the beginning of discussions over the form of an increase in parental contribution, the SPD Members have clearly and unambiguously declared themselves to a principle which can be described as a higher parental contribution to all parents, which means that all parents who are or will have custody of children or children under the age of four will receive the 80 000 government. First of all, it is about maintaining the principle of equality between citizens before the law, the principles of general justice and the principles of legitimate expectations. These are all principles that form together, virtually. They should co-create the foundations of every democratic rule of law, regardless of the form of the government's majority and political opposition. Respect for and respect for these principles has a fundamental influence on how citizens will perceive the state and the political regime, how loyal they will be to it, and last but not least how they will approach the rule of law and the unwritten norms of moral and ethical ones themselves in their daily lives. If citizens see and feel that the state itself does not follow these principles and principles in its work, they offer to follow them themselves. The increase in parental allowance for parents of all children under the age of four was the option that Minister Maláčová referred to as a real and priority a few months ago, and it was so right. On the contrary, the selection carried out by the government coalition in increasing its parental contribution now is unjustified and discriminatory. In addition, the criterion chosen by it means to make this increase conditional on drawing up the parental contribution on the date of entry into force of the amendment to the Act on State Social Aid, which excludes about 20 percent of children's parents under the age of four from entitlement to this increase, is extremely unfair. Much more unfair than, for example, the draw of those affected by this increase. Especially in a situation where a practically similar coalition majority in 2017 in increasing parental contribution to parents of multiples admitted this valorisation to all parents of the respective age without further restrictive conditions, and suddenly, in a perfectly identical situation, it makes a 180-degree turn and is not hesitated to refer simultaneously to as a government that is pro-family and which lies at the heart of the state of birth and population growth of the Czech population. Practice is different, and not just in this case. This behavior of the government is all the more incomprehensible that, in the case of the admission of that increase, all parents of four-year-olds and younger children would not be treated in the overall context of the state budget by an astronomical amount. Similar and much higher financial amounts are currently allocated in the draft state budget for next year and in the longer budgetary perspective to matters whose long-term social benefits are undoubtedly much lower than the promotion of fertility and child education. The proposed amendment thus creates unacceptable inequality between parents and also between children practically since their birth, and it can even be said that, as discriminatory as we say, across the social groups, it may be most disadvantageous to the low-income and working groups of our citizens. [[17.40 hours]] All you have to do is imagine not a hypothetical but a completely real example. We have two children here. Both were born on September 1, 2016. The first one lives in a family where the father receives a salary of 100,000, and the mother receives a parental allowance on parental leave. He drives his child to a neighboring village where the nursery is established by municipalities. The increase of the parental allowance will concern her, so she will receive CZK 80,000. Our second child lives in the same village, whose single mother ended parental leave and parental allowance on 1 September 2019, primarily for existential reasons, and took up a job where she received CZK 15,000. Since she doesn't have a car to drive a child to kindergarten, she can't even take a bus there because she's been working since 6:00 in the morning, she has to pay for a babysitter. The increase in parental contribution is not covered by a party called Social Democratic, thanks to the government coalition, which is referred to as Social, in which this social legislation is in charge. He has no right. But at least he has the right to contribute from his taxes and contributions to increase parental contribution to his neighbors. It's hard to tell if this feeling will satisfy her. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The submitted amendment therefore certainly discriminates against those parents who voted for a faster return to employment for existential reasons, often singles or singles, who, in addition, theoretically, have the potential increase -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u4	Madam, I will allow you to be interrupted, and I will ask all the Members who want to discuss something, so that we may discuss it in the lobby, so that we may have peace in the Chamber and be able to listen to each other. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I'll keep going. - who, in theory, already paid the potential increase in taxes and levies. It is also extremely undignified to humiliate that those parents who originally planned to terminate parental leave and return to work e.g. in this autumn, they now had to artificially and de facto extend the period of parental contribution at the last moment against their original will only to achieve an increase which is a vital item for them in the family budget. And once again, parental allowance is not a mere and simple substitute for wages. It can also be taken at work if the parent cares for or cares for the child. So there's no government and ministerial argument at all that he only wants to saturate those parents who have no other income by increasing the contribution. It is a gross and mandatory benefit of state social support. And the fact whether the parent has exhausted the parental allowance at any date or not has absolutely nothing to say about the current financial and social situation of the families concerned. Regardless of the fact that the argument of the current income and financial situation of individual families cannot be stronger than the maintenance of constitutional principles of equality between children of the same age and their parents. Colleagues and colleagues, two years after I have been a Member, I have not noticed such a strong and genuine interest in discussing a legislative proposal as is the case in this case. And I am not talking about any artificial and top-organized campaigns such as mass e-mails, but about the specific, lively and deep interest of parents of young children, who address me in various places and in various ways almost daily and are interested in how and why the planned and discussed increase in parental contribution will look like. The disappointment of those to whom this increase is to be denied has been and is genuine and unfalse. They cannot understand what and why their state punishes them when they have always followed valid legislation, worked properly and worked properly and raised their children. I fully understand, and I have to give them the truth. Please, let us treat them politely and fairly. Let us increase this parental contribution to all parents of all children under four years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u6	There. Thank you. Another with priority rights is Vice-President Okamura. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement is going to punish financially parents with young children who have found work. This is completely unacceptable for us in the SPD. The SPD movement therefore co-submitted the amendment so that all parents with children under four should be entitled to an increased parental contribution, which will be increased by CZK 80,000 to CZK 300,000. It's about the people who work in the first place. The SPD is refusing discrimination against parents who had to go to work to support their child and themselves. These parents are refused by the government YES, ČSSD and KSČM to increase parental contribution. Government parties are being punished for their involvement in the work. On the other hand, the Minister of Labour Maláčová of the ČSSD does nothing against the abuse of benefits by people who refuse to work. So, of course, we have given room and we will, I hope, in a very short time vote on increasing parental allowance for parents with children under four years of age, and in order to correct the government's error, there is the amendment, which is co-president of the SPD, and I hope that Minister Maláčová of the ČSSD and other government MPs will correct the wrong proposal, where they also do not grant parental contribution to all working mothers with young children, so that they will vote in favour of our amendment to correct the situation and that the government really does not discriminate against those parents with young children who have found work. The SPD movement has long advocated pro-population policies for more children to be born in proper working families. I would add that I have a bad idea that the ČSSD Members will vote against our amendment. So he's definitely going to be very clear about what he really means about his social policy. The SPD movement has long advocated pro-population policies for more children to be born in proper working families. From our point of view, therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable what Minister of Social Affairs Jana Maláčová from ČSSD is doing here, who, on the one hand, claims that she wants the establishment of a family not to be seen as a decline in the standard of living, but at the same time, the Minister said that she will not support a proposal of which the SPD is a co-president, so that all families with children under the age of four, regardless of whether they are currently pumping it or have exhausted it. Here we see ČSSD and Madam Secretary contradicting each other, politely speaking. The government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement is going to punish, for example, with this. single mothers who, for existential reasons, have entered employment and who, according to the government's proposal, will not be entitled to an increased parent. That's real... that's 80,000 crowns. This is indeed an appalling approach by this government to decent working mothers. At the same time, the government continues to pay overdue amounts on non-adaptable doses. And I ask, are you crazy? According to the Minister, and I believe that even according to her colleagues in the government, our proposal is that all parents with children under the age of four should be entitled to an increased parental claim, which is said to be factually fair, but has legislative errors. That's pretty pointless. That's the classic excuse. When government parties don't want something, they always blame it on legislative mistakes or a poorly processed proposal. But the biggest pasquilis and real pasquilis have always been shown here by the government parties. It's for example. a new civil code that millions of citizens are facing up to now. So whoever's doing the pasquila is the government's party, and it's the government, and everybody's paying for it. So let the constant lies and excuses be that if you don't like something or if I want something against it, your chairman Hamáček, the president of the ČSSD will always say it, he said it last week, by the way, not just about the SPD proposal, but about the Pirates' proposal, he just said it, he just spit it out by not being well processed. And it's not true. So he's always showing the CSSD to make excuses, or to get dirty, to actually spit dirty on another political side. There's no valid reason. So that's pointless, this argument of yours, why you refuse to let all parents with young children be entitled to an increased allowance. And as I'm saying, we're pushing for those working families with young children to have it so that they can get that raise. And you don't want it. [[17.50 hours]] So, first of all, there are no mistakes in our design, it's just your excuse, and second, if there are mistakes, there's no problem fixing them. And it wouldn't be a problem for your government to come up with an excellent proposal. And saddest of all, governments in this country have always been a factory for legislative scumbags that have been violently modified. As I said before, the Civil Code is an example, and it is being corrected on the march to this day. From all sides there was always a voice: rather approve a good imperfect standard than none. We're experiencing the opposite today. Rather a bad perfect standard than a good one, but an imperfect one. I understand it's about the budget, it's about the money. Moreover, the government would be able to get a few billion more by cutting the pen again, not only by cutting subsidies to political nonprofits or by ending the financing of Czech military presence in Afghanistan, but perhaps by making more direct contributions to parents so that benefits are not abused by unadaptable ones, as is the case today under this government. But here we see the priorities of the government. That means non-adjustable doses, yes, but the working single mom, you don't want to admit the increased parental allowance. We in the SPD want as many children to be born to proper families that benefit our society and that give hope that they will raise children for decency and work. The support of such families is then no contribution, no gift, but it is a regular investment in the future profit that children from such families will bring to our Republic. Just like those families where moms went to work early and work, they refuse to give the government of the movement YES, ČSSD and KSČM a few extra crowns. You punish those who don't sit at home, and if they can, they work. What kind of signal is that? It's worth doing nothing! Setting up support for families with children should be such that support belongs only to those who work, to those who have a work history, and also to those who are decent and are not a threat or difficulty to their surroundings. Of course, I am not illusioned that a mere contribution will fundamentally change the decision-making of those responsible and hardworking. There's no housing available, and what we're gonna talk about, and a job for good money, which he's gonna feed his mom on maternity leave with kids and pay rent or mortgage. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will, dear government and colleagues from the government coalition, if you will, you can vote in favour of our amendment so that all parents with children under four are entitled to an increased parent. And you can reject your government proposal that you selectively want to increase your parental contribution only to some selected parents. But then don't say you support family and decent, hardworking citizens. At your vote, we'll see if the words go into action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u8	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u9	Dear House, I will be very brief because I think the vast majority of us who are here realize that the main thing is for this law to pass. And that's why I'm going to start with what we consider to be the most important thing in the Pirates Club, in fact, of the few proposals that we're putting forward. I would like to draw your attention to the E3 proposal. It is just a matter of increasing the limit for monthly purchases, a limit that applies in particular - I would like to calculate it in the first few seconds when I may still have your attention, namely tradesmen and tradesmen, students or moms who got pregnant actually within a year after school, so they did not take care of sickness insurance for long enough, and so did mothers who, for example, worked on a low-time basis, so they also had low incomes thanks to a low-time job, so they do not have to meet the so-called daily assessment base to get over the limit of CZK 7,600 per month. So I want to ask you, please consider E3, because it concerns a number of people for whom the 2,400 a month, which they would get an extra month, means whether they can be home with the baby in the first two years, or whether they just have to make a lot of money. It seems a shame to us when the total package, the total amount rises, at the same time not to raise this monthly limit. And I'm going to make one more simple argument. In fact, if a person is fully dependent on state social support, he usually gets a little bit more already, roughly even if he is a parent with one child, so it is usually about 12,000 a month with the counting of housing benefits. I mean, this proposal does not support an unfortunate life strategy, where one would rely only on this, but it is really important help for businessmen, businessmen, mothers who may have become unplannedly pregnant at school. The other things have been discussed in detail. I would just like to stress that the proposal for valorisation, which other colleagues also supported, and I thank them for that, does not have it built in itself that it could increase repeatedly. It is really a proposal where one can only find out at the beginning that the total amount will be slightly higher, but cannot deal with it purposefully. That's one thing I want to say. And then one more thing that I want to mention is that our parent and parent system, as combined, takes into account the salary, the earnings before parenting, and in parenting, gives the same support to everyone. And that's very important, because then there's no incentive to delay parenting. So my last point is that it would be very unreasonable to fundamentally change our system of combined protection of maternity money and then parental allowance, because it allows people to make a pretty good free choice and at the same time motivates them not to delay parenting. That's really important. And the few changes that we need to make for the EU are pretty small, and I think most of them won't even be reported to the public. They concern other standards, in particular the Labour Code. So I'm just calling for us to be satisfied with the system we have, and we're just trying to improve it a little bit, maybe with the automatic valorization mechanism. Thank you for your attention. I highly recommend that you consider raising the limit to 10 grand a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u10	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Golasowská, who I do not see. She's excused. So we will proceed to the next in line - Mr Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u11	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that we should be finished with these speeches by 6:30 at the latest, because then we have 12 votes and we need at least half an hour, so, of course, I have crossed out most of my performance. And let me really just briefly, I know that this has been said several times at press conferences to introduce you to the process and attitude of civil democrats in the context of raising parents. I would like to say that unfortunately, we agree very little with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. There is an exception, and this is an increase in parental allowance. We supported him during the last parliamentary term and supported him in the autumn when various variations of the increase began to come from the Ministry. And we supported him during intra-police fights over money. And, of course, we will support him in the vote today. At the same time, however, the citizens' democratic party will promote a fair and equal increase to all parents who are legally entitled to it. Therefore, we will support a broader and the Ministry's previously preferred option for parents of all children under the age of four who can receive parental benefit from the law. I think that the distribution of the drawdown, and therefore the completion of the total amount of parental allowance, parents choose for themselves, the law allows them to do so, and at a time when they made their decisions, they could hardly predict whether they would be eligible for an increased amount in the future or not. Moreover, the government promised them this at the beginning of the parliamentary term and subsequently postponed the increase in parental status and delay. [[18.00 hours]] I would also like to comment briefly on the government's cut-off proposal to raise parents only for parents who are actively receiving the dose. Thus, around 20 percent of families are excluded from entitlement to an increase in the amount. It is about 70,000 parents who have already exhausted their parents in an accelerated regime, even though they are raising the same old child who is entitled to support as families who still benefit from parental allowance, even at a negative rate. Therefore, if such a proposal is passed, the government will essentially live next to each other two families with the same old children and mothers to parents, only one state will allow the higher amount of parental income to be drawn, and the other family will unfortunately be unlucky. This really can happen in practice. I would like to say that this is very hard for us to defend, because it is true that both such families meet the basic condition of the law for granting parental allowance, which is raising the youngest child in the family within four years. For the next one. Moreover, we fear that government, from our point of view, an unfair version of parental enhancement may well be on the verge of constitutionality. It violates the constitutional ban on retroactivity and undermines legal certainty. If we now approve it, we are really putting ourselves at risk of being later abolished by the Constitutional Court, and I hope that this honourable House does not want or can afford. Finally, we do not have this concern alone, because at this risk, i.e. constitutional complaints were also brought to the attention of the Minister himself and the officials of her ministry. Surprisingly, we are in agreement on this. In conclusion, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you to support our joint proposal, which we have tabled with my colleague Lucie Šafránková, which provides for a similar adjustment to the increase in parental status, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has previously advocated, i.e. an increased broader version. Although I have formally submitted this proposal on behalf of the civil democrats together with my colleague, I can actually cover myself with the support of tens of thousands of families who are directly affected by this step. Therefore, I would like to thank all my parents and mothers, who have addressed me and expressed their support for this proposal in recent weeks. Our proposal is undoubtedly fair and, above all, aligns with the Constitution and the sense of legal certainty in the rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u12	Thank you. Next in line for the general debate is Mrs Markéta Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u13	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot do this, and I will return to what we discussed before this point and to its course, namely the tax package and in connection with the increase in parental contribution and this point. Since the Minister on social media claims that TOP 09 and ODS have blocked the discussion of the parental contribution, even more outrageously, I will quote the entire tweet of Minister Maláčová from this afternoon. Quote: ODS and TOP 09 have blocked parental approval. Unbelievable. Apparently, he'll come up with any trick to keep the parent from passing. I wonder how he's gonna explain this little junk to the 280,000 families. End of quote. Well, that's an outrageous lie, of course. And I would like to refresh the Minister's memory from last year, by this time we approved the budget and the amendments, and I then tabled an amendment in order for the parental contribution to be approved from July 2019. So there was an opportunity to fulfill that promise long ago, and we probably wouldn't suggest it if we didn't want to increase our parental contribution, would we, Madam Secretary? So please don't argue, not even on social media, such outrageous things. I am strongly opposed to this! Unlike you, we are not in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure Act. That's your specialty, as we know. And I certainly do not want to prolong this debate, but I think it is important to repeat that it is you, the government coalition, who took the parents with young children as hostage. You have decided that at all costs a tax increase must be approved first, and then it is only possible to approve an increase in parental allowance. There's a consensus here on this matter. Even, as I'm proving, we wanted to raise last year. On the contrary, in March of this year you considered it great news - this is how you said it again on your twitter - great news that the parental contribution will increase to 300 grand for newly born children from 1. 1. 2020. So this was your racket when you turned around the next day after the public got up and what a very clear gesture of great pressure showed that she really didn't like it this way, then you just started backing up and then you started negotiating about another form. But this, as the opposition here presents itself as the one who doesn't want to raise the parental contribution, so it deeply affects me. We, as TOP 09, will certainly support sensible amendments, whether it is the automatic valorisation of the parental contribution, so that it cannot happen now, as it has happened now, that you will take parents and children hostage and will be here to politicize and squabble around any increase. We will, of course, support my proposal, which concerns grandparents, because we consider this to be another appropriate form of flexibility of parental contribution. And we will also support some of our fellow Members' amendments, and I will not name exactly all those we consider reasonable. But I am opposed to the fact that the opposition would not want families with young children to finally increase their parental contribution after 12 years. On the contrary, we wanted it last year, we want it all the time and we will vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u14	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, yes, I'll be short too. I think all previous speakers, but also colleague Jurečka, of course, will ask or have asked for this proposal. We are in the third reading, and therefore I am more of a justification for our position on individual amendments. I'd like to say we're going to be stalling. I have already announced this on the Committee on Social Policy with my colleague Bauer, also with my colleague Golasowská, and then we will abstain from the pirate proposal, which extends the increase in parental allowance by 80,000 for all children under four years of age and after the end of parental leave. In the previous speech, I think the Minister explained this in very detail, so it is no longer worth talking about. I would like to say, however, that we will support Mrs Jana Pastuchová, who is giving her amendment, which does not concern parental contribution, but concerns state social support in the context of the assessment of persons or common persons for housing. I am convinced, although the Minister sent his position respectively to all Members. our arguments that we should adopt this amendment, as we have also announced in the Social Policy Committee. There is also postponed efficiency from 1. 7. 2020. And if the Minister, as he says, wants to do something about this state of the welfare system, he obviously has enough room to change it, or to propose changes that he sees as optimal. I myself look forward to the working group on 14 November, where we should also talk about this. The question, of course, is whether there will be any change or proposal on the floor of the Senate. I would also like to say that, after a thorough analysis, the KSČM MEP will support Mrs Richterová, and this concerns the amendment under point E3 where the amount of 7,600 is changed to 10,000. We know all possible arguments for and against. Yes, I say that we would like this amount to be a fixed amount, i.e. so that the 10,000 or maybe 7 600 can no longer be moved. But the way we see the practice, and I've consulted with practice, not just with student representatives, so I really have to say that it would help them. In any case, as was the justification on the Social Policy Committee, why not support or abstain from this amendment, so I must say that mostly the way it is taken in people who are generally on doses who simply do not work, so there is spillover from only one window to another. This means, if they receive benefits or parental benefits, they are, of course, deducted from other social benefits they have been entitled to so far. [[18.10 hours]] I would also like to mention the argument of the SPD, where I am very sorry about their concept. Yes, we're talking about the amount of parental allowance that everyone who has a baby actually receives, that is, all the parents who have a baby, but their concept is that you want to present or in society in some way as I have it... now I don't know... to say that you want them to actually receive a parental contribution only to parents who have done some activity for the state. I think this is exactly what we should discuss, what is actually the concept of parental contribution. It is a reward for staying home with the child and taking care of him, and I think that there have been major changes in the conception of the parental contribution at all in the last two or three years, and in the future we are also expecting adoption or implementation within the framework of European legislation. And I think that for us, for the Czech Republic, it is up to us to discuss what the concept of parental contribution will be in the future and how we will support families if we want not only the birth rate to increase, but for parents to take care of the children. This is also one of the reasons why we will not support Mrs Pekarová because I am convinced, and although we understand some of the arguments that working grandparents can take care of their grandchildren, I believe that if we want children to be born, it should be primarily parents who should take care of their children and should be interested in them, and it is for the state to create conditions for them to be able to be at home for optimal money and financial evaluation with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u16	Thank you. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] Mr Marian Jurečka is next in line for the general debate and the last one entered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u17	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am aware that we are in some kind of time pressure, that I cannot speak for as long as I originally imagined to this point, because in order to make this point known, we should start voting by 6:30 at the latest. I am going to limit myself to being really brief, and I would like to say that on the one hand, I am glad that the government is returning here after more than a 2.5-year break to support families, because in the Czech Republic, when we look at the situation of families, a family with two children in terms of average per capita income in this household has a lower per capita income than the average pension. So really families who have two or more children fall very quickly to the poverty line, and the situation of those parents is not easy at all to bear all the costs of good education for these children, to finance rings, tours and similar activities, sports activities, etc. When we were like KDU-ČSL in government, four years later we gradually increased the discount on children, which we also accentuated in terms of their increase for those parents who have second, third and other children to make a difference, because it is precisely the increasing number of children in the household that is showing quite dramatically to decrease average per capita income in the household. The last increase took place in 2017 and since then nothing. So I'm glad that, in this way, the government is trying to help families, parents, because even from my experience, when I'm talking to my peers, so many of them say, we're seriously thinking about having one child, that we'd go to the other, or we'd have two, that we'd go to the third. But for many of them, the question of supporting the family is indeed a limit to the decision to have one more child. That's what I'm saying because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u18	I'm sorry. I'm going to ask you to calm the situation outside the pitch. [[- It's really disturbing, gentlemen.]] The Member cannot continue because he is disturbed. And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u19	Thank you. Thank you very much. We are in a situation when since 1990 (?) In the Czech Republic, birth rates have broken down in such a way that if we do not actually account for the impact of migration, our society is dying out. Yes, in recent years the birth rate has gradually increased, we are already at the number 1.7 of a child per woman today, but who knows at least the elementary knowledge of reproduction, or, let's say, the population, the breeding of rabbits, knows that if the birth rate is not at least at the level of two wholes and something higher, then each population simply dies. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] We're talking about the problems of the ongoing pillar of the pension system. All of these problems would be solved if we could have a birth rate here that would be higher than two wholes. And, of course, this has to do with the economic situation of our families. So I personally thank him for this proposal, and I would like to acknowledge it, and I would like to intercede for the support of amendments that will not make differences between parents depending on whether those parents, when they have a child under four years of age, have decided to go to work or not. I think if we're aiming at saying we're increasing the amount because the parent has a child, the child is four years old, I don't think it's entirely fair to distinguish whether the parent went to work six months ago or didn't. So please, let's take this into account. Yes, there is talk of a sum of 2.6 billion crowns. And when we look at the total volume of the state budget, it's a relatively negligible amount, and this money is going to be invested by the families for our future. So I'd like us to be able to consider this here, to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u20	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil is registered with a factual remark, then with priority rights, President Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u21	I'll be very short. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm still hearing from all sides: let's add parents to raise the birth rate. I'm in favour of giving parents, the state thrives, we live in luxury times, we have a surplus, we're just in good shape. But to connect the fact that if I add money to my parents to raise the birth rate, it's nonsense. It's not the richest people who have children. And young people today, even if you give them a lot more, they don't want to have kids because they don't want to take responsibility. On the contrary, by the time it was hard, my grandmother came from nine - I will be very short - children and had deep pockets. I mean, please, yes, let's give the parents money to be fine, but it won't increase the birth rate. It's just an odd argument for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u22	Thank you. I would simply point out that this factual point raised four further factual points. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Válek, Mr Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u23	Thank you. Brief technical. I'm not putting it into direct context. I didn't put it into direct context, just pointing out that the economic situation of families, if they have two or more children, is not easy, they have the lowest per capita income when I compare it with pensions. And I say this as a family person - I'm from five children, and my mom has twenty-two grandchildren today - and indeed, with my siblings in terms of income, it does not affect the number of children, but it is a support argument in terms of housing, cars, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u24	Thank you. The next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mr Válek. I'm going to ask you in the O.R. to keep your voice down and be able to negotiate this point in peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u25	I will not be short, this is my classmate from Břeclav Ivoš Krátký, I will be brief. And I would just like to point out that I am 100% sure that the reduction in the birth rate or any maternity allowance will certainly not increase the birth rate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u26	Thank you for the briefness, and Mr Pavel Bělobrádek with a factual remark and his two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I would respond to a colleague here with the fact that, as far as I know, according to the latest statistics, what he has said is no longer valid and more children are starting to have people with higher incomes and higher education. [[Noise in the hall.]] The second thing is, we're fixing some kind of injustice here, which is a little bit different. And if anything is a real tool to increase birth rate, that's what we pushed through in Sobotkův's government, that's tax discounts. Because if you look at how the birth rate has been growing since 2014, 2015, 2016, the increase has obviously been there. It's been years in a row. [[18.20 hours]] I believe that, of course, the way people react to whether they have or do not have children has nothing to do with their income, that is certain. There are groups of people who have more children just because they want them, and because it's a priority for them. But please, there are various other trends that show that, as it used to be, more children have the low-income and less educated, so it's not quite that simple anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u28	Thank you. President Excellent is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Dear Government, Colleagues, I was signed up on Friday, and that was not the opportunity to speak in the end. I would like to make an opinion here for the KDU-ČSL. Unlike the tax package, where the House has easily mowed down here, the parental example is that we can agree here if the proposal has a head and a heel and a sense for our parents, for our families, that we can agree across the Chamber of Deputies. So we welcome the proposal, we support it, we continue to support it. I want to say that KDU-ČSL at the end will vote in favour of raising parents regardless of whether they pass or fail the amendments. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that we believe that the amendments tabled are fair, because the government, because it wanted to reduce the costs of parenting by some 2 billion, threw overboard 70,000 Czech families here. And I would like to remind you, these are families who have been very responsible for their parental duties. Very often, because of their ability to reconcile their careers and their parental responsibilities, they used up the parental contribution earlier, and today, world wonders, it is these young people who pay taxes that pay health insurance etc. etc. So I think it's very unfair if we throw these 70,000 Czech families overboard in this way and let the parental contribution under the government proposal draw only those who are currently receiving it. We have here the amendment of Mrs Pavla Golasowská, as well as of colleagues Bauer, as well as of fellow pirates. I would very much like to appeal to you to support this proposal. Indeed, it is not a dramatic amount in the budget. And if the government's explanatory report, Madam Secretary, states that it is necessary to appreciate the care of young children, well, then everyone really deserves it, and not that we will exclude some of it. So I'd like to ask you to do that, I'd like to appeal to that. Otherwise, I welcome the fact that we will really support families and parents in this way. And my colleague Brázdil through the Vice-President. It's just one of the pieces. Of course, this pro-family policy must have a number of other steps that are important. And by the way, and he mentioned it here, a colleague named Pavel Bělobrádek, those tax bonuses that this government gave up on, and KDU-ČSL pushed through the last government and they should grow, so that's the ideal tool, because we're gonna let those families have the money so that those families can invest it in our future, i.e. to your children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u30	Well, thank you. No one is registered for the debate at this time. I look from the point of view, if anyone is interested, I see no one, this is the end of the debate. I'll ask for any final words... Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u31	Yes, thank you. Two sentences only. I want to ask you and thank you for the very brief debate. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be very brief. Let us vote on parental vote and give such a clear signal that support for working families with children is a priority for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u32	Thank you. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. For the record, Mrs Jana Pastuchová cancels her apology from 18.30 and moves her from 19.00 to the end of the hearing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I would first inform you of the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy of the 37th meeting of 3 October 2019 on this Government Act No. 117/1995, on State social support, as amended, House press 490. The Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, as a guarantee committee after discussion of the draft law after second reading, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law under the Parliamentary press 490/3 in the following order: First of all, proposals for legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading if they are presented in the debate at third reading. The next point A, if it is adopted, will be an unvoting proposal C and G, if it is not adopted, we will vote on proposal C, if it is adopted, the unvoting proposal G. As the fourth vote, then B, the sixth vote D, the seventh vote F, if it is adopted, is unvoting E4, if it is not adopted, we will vote on E4, then we will vote on E1, et cetera E2, if it is adopted, is an unvoting proposal E3, if it is not adopted, we will vote on E3 and the last one we will vote on the bill as a whole. Secondly, it takes the following opinion on the proposals submitted. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's views at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the third reading of the bill. Fourthly, he instructs the Vice-President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Before each vote, I shall briefly state what the amendment relates to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u34	Thank you. I will ask for peace in the Chamber because we will proceed to the vote on the procedure that has been read to us in the Committee's resolution. I'm asking if there's an objection to this? It's not. So I'm going to vote on this procedure. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 232, registered as 177 Members, for 173. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. At this point, we can proceed to the vote on individual proposals. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u35	As no proposals for legislative technical adaptations at third reading have been proposed, we will vote on the amendment under letter A. It is Mr Bauer's amendment to extend the parental contribution to all children under the age of four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u36	Opinion? [[Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended. Minister disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 233, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 78. [[versus 13]] The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u37	Since it has not been adopted, we are voting under letter C, which is Mrs Golasowská's amendment concerning the same thing, extending the parental contribution to all children under four years of age. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u38	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 234, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 79. [[versus 1]] The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u39	Thank you. Since this proposal has not been accepted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u40	Sorry, I'll cut you off. There's an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. Please register with your voting cards and I will ask the rapporteur to make another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u41	We will now vote on the amendment under the letter G by Mr Martínek, who is identical - extending the parental contribution to all children under four years of age. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u42	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I just had you checked out. [[Dissenting voices from the right.]] So I'm signing you all out again and please sign in. Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 235, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up for 78. [[against no one]] The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u43	We will now vote on the amendment under point B of Mrs Pekarová's Adamová, which concerns extending the parental contribution to grandparents as well. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u44	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 236, 175 Members and Members have signed up for 78. [[versus 6]] The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u45	We will now vote on the amendment under letter D of Mr Chvojka. This is a reduction in the severity of the law at birth of multiples and, for example, in the death of one of the multiples and leaving this amount - simply a reduction in the hardness. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u46	Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 237, 176 Members and Members of Parliament have signed up for 174. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u47	We will now vote on the amendment under letter F, which is Mrs Pastuchová's proposal and concerns the contribution to housing. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u48	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 238 registered 176 Members and Members, for 124. [[versus 2]] The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u49	Since Amendment F has been adopted, it is an unvoting proposal E4, which is why we will now vote on Amendment E1, which is Mrs Richterová's amendment. This is about valorizing the parental contribution. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u50	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 239, 174 Members and Members signed in for 40. [[versus 5]] The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u51	We will now vote on Amendment E2, which is Mrs Richterová's amendment. And there's actually a change instead of one thirty-one thirty (?). The opinion of the Guarantee Committee shall be without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u52	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 240, 175 Members and Members have signed up for 58. [[versus 4]] The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u53	Since Amendment E2 has not been adopted, we will vote on Amendment E3, which is Mrs Richterová's proposal, where the amount of 7,600 is changed to 10 thousand. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted a resolution without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u54	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 241 registered 176 Members and Members, for 94. [[versus 2]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u55	Since we voted on all the amendments, we will vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-002-207.u56	I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, according to the House's Press 490, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 242 entered 176 Members and Members, for 176. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Applause from the left and center of the hall.]] This concludes the discussion of this point, this law. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes until the end of the day for health reasons. We'll proceed to the next point. It's...
