ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-023-045.u1	45. Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended /German press 230/ - first reading We interrupted the discussion of this point on 12 February. The joint general debate has been closed. I ask that Mr Lukáš Černohorský, Mr Lukáš Černohorský, and Mr Roman Kubíček take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff, and the rapporteur for the first reading. We will therefore vote on the proposals. We have here a motion for a rejection tabled by Mr Kupka. So, basically, we'll be the first to deal with that. I hope you all know what we're going to vote on, so we don't have to repeat. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against rejection? [[Members ask whether they are voting in favour or against rejection.]] It's a motion to dismiss. So who's up for rejection? Now he's against rejection. [[It's still unclear to the MPs.]] Was it clear, or do you want to repeat the vote? [[Members shall request a re-vote.]] Okay, well, I'm saying it's confusing. So let's do it again, okay? So I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. There is a motion to reject the motion tabled by Mr Kupka. So "who's in favour" will be the first vote, "who's against" will be the second vote. We're not gonna vote yet, please. I was just repeating it to avoid confusion. [[Members are still arguing.]] I know that. You asked me a moment ago how to vote. Then don't ask me, please. [[Disarray and entertainment in the hall.]] [[14.40 hours]] So I'm saying here again, there's a motion to dismiss the motion. I'm opening the vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 246, 153 Members signed in for 29, versus 106. The motion to dismiss was rejected. So now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee, and I ask if anyone is proposing the commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I do not see any proposal, that is why we will proceed to the vote. We will vote on whether you agree that this proposal will be directed to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 247, 157 Members signed in for 148, versus 0. So the proposal was accepted. I note that this bill has been ordered to discuss the inspection committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. And I'm asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees. Nobody has such a proposition. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a further committee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 248, entered 158 Members, for 144, against 1. The motion was accepted. And I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee. So, for the moment, I'm discussing this press... [[This is the messenger. Bartos.]] Please, with priority rights, come on. I saw your arm up, but I thought you wanted to suggest another committee. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-023-045.u2	Yes, it was. I applied at that moment, but I guess you didn't take me there when you asked if we were proposing another committee to deal with this press. I suggest, as was the case with the previous press, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-023-045.u3	Okay. So we have... Let's take one more vote. Mr Ivan Bartoš's proposal is that the proposal be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as another committee. So I'm opening the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 249, registered 160 Members, for 130, against 3. The motion was accepted. So I note that this proposal has also been directed to the Committee on Regional Development as another committee. There's no other proposal. I'll look around just in case. It's not, so for now, I'm done discussing this press. I'll read some more... we have an apology here. Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologizes from the meeting, from 14:30 to the end of the day for family reasons. As the next press, we're on the agenda.
