ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u1	305. Government information on the toll system selection procedure We have renegotiated this item in the general debate on 27 March 2019 at the 27th meeting. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík and the plaintiff and rapporteur Jan Bartošek. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Blaha has applied for the floor. [[He's not coming.]] Mr. Blaha. Mr. Blaha. I know it's so non-standard, but it's an interrupted point from March 27th, so we are continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I thought, at the outset, it would be appropriate to give the floor to the Minister to introduce us to what the shift has been since the last time. I'll pick it up, of course. I'm not interrupting my application here, I'd just like to prefer the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u3	Of course. If the Minister has expressed interest, he will certainly have the floor. So please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I welcome the opportunity at today's meeting to discuss the current situation in ensuring the selection of myths in the Czech Republic. After all, I did so 14 days ago in the inspection committee of the Chamber of Deputies, when I described the whole current situation. At the outset, I would like to say that I am not pleased about the situation following the judgments of the Regional Court in Brno and the subsequent decisions of the Office for the Protection of Competition. It's a legal reality that the Ministry of Transport is facing. In my speech, I will comment on the whole matter, and I would like to assure all Members and Members at the outset, including the public, that the launch of the new electronic myth system on 1 December 2019 is not in any danger, just as toll collection is not at risk. Of course, our carriers and all carriers are also at heart to change on-board units. It's time and time fades. So what happened, what was the sequence of events? On 20 September 2018, the Office for the Protection of Competition (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) was decided to review the toll contract in such a way that individual administrative procedures were terminated and the proposals of the Katsch consortium as a unsuccessful tenderer were rejected. For the sake of completeness, I will just remind you that these were several administrative procedures which had a different range of participants. One of these proceedings had only one participant, the contracting authority, which was the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Transport. It was in this procedure that the Office ordered a preliminary measure prohibiting the signing of a contract with a winning candidate. Since it was a procedural development, the Ministry of Transport gave up the right to submit a breakdown, and in the view of the Ministry of Transport, the decision thus took legal power in this section, with which the administrative rules linked the consequence of the termination of the interim measure. At this point and in this context, I must point out that it was not just the opinion of the Ministry of Transport at the time. The Authority itself had the same view, which means the Office for the Protection of Competition. In fact, on the same day of the Ministry of Transport, the Office confirmed the acquisition of the legal power of the relevant statement and sent the so-called legal clause, an official document. Only the subsequent decision of the Regional Court in Brno, about three quarters of a year later, brought a completely different view, a different legal view, namely that the opinion in question, the decision of the Authority, which we are talking about here and whose legal power was confirmed by the Office for the Protection of Competition, could not have taken legal power before others' statements. This means that at the time when the Ministry of Transport signed the toll contract, according to the Regional Court in Brno, provisional measures forbidding the signature were still in force. So that was the view of the Regional Court in Brno. And in this, that's exactly what's at the heart of today's situation, today's problem. The Ministry of Transport, of course, filed an appeal against the decision of the Regional Court in Brno to the Supreme Administrative Court. However, the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court on the appeal of the Ministry of Transport as well as on the appeals of other parties to the proceedings must be regarded as an existing decision by the Regional Court in Brno. In the judgment of the Regional Court in Brno, the competition authority was bound by the Regional Court's legal opinion that the toll contract was concluded at the time when the precautionary measure in question was to apply. The competition authority thus had no choice but to assess the matter in the light of this legal opinion of the Regional Court in Brno, even though the Authority did not agree with it and continued the procedure for prohibiting the execution of the contract initiated by the consortium Kapsch. In this renewed procedure, the State through the Ministry of Transport demonstrates, on the one hand, the existence of reasons worthy of special consideration linked to the public interest requiring the continuation of the toll contract and, at the same time, the fact that the 12-month period is not sufficient to protect the public interest. As we all know, in the course of this procedure, in the past days, the competition authority has issued its first step decision stating that the Ministry of Transport has been shown that there are reasons worthy of special consideration linked to the public interest requiring the continuation of the toll contract. However, at the same time, the Authority takes the view that it is not clear that it would not be possible to protect the public interest in question within a period of 12 months. In other words, it is possible to ensure the selection of myth by other means within that period. And now for the very assessment of the situation. I cannot agree with the view that it is possible to secure an alternative selection of myth within a period of 12 months. Only the simple summation of the course of the last procurement procedure results in the following. The preparation of the procurement procedure itself lasted six months. The tender procedure under which a toll contract was concluded with CzechToll and SkyToll took 15 months alone. Following the signing of the contract, the implementation of the toll system was immediately launched, which is to last 14 months. It is therefore clear from the above that within a period of 12 months the toll system cannot be secured. I note that I do not mention the need to provide professional capacities for the preparation of tender terms for tolls. Only perhaps a magician would be able to incriminate a matter lasting 35 months or more within a period of no more than 12 months. As Minister of Transport, I'm not a magician, I can't do this, and I don't know anyone who can actually do this. [[18.10 hours]] All of us, ladies and gentlemen, are, however, witnessing a very contradictory fact to which I would like to point out. The President of the Office for the Protection of Competition has been decided - and this decision is final - that the Ministry of Transport had no doubt during the procurement procedure, that the competition took place properly, entirely according to the rules, transparently, did not discriminate, all had equal conditions and the requirements of the contracting authority for suppliers were proportionate. Thus, although the competition took place properly and legally, the performance of the contract is now prohibited. We therefore have considerable hopes of our degradation, because the consequences associated with the ban on the performance of the contract are considered to be an absolutely inadequate situation and the procurement procedure that preceded it. What's wrong with the Department of Transport today? The fact that the toll contract was signed? Ladies and gentlemen, the average recipient of legal obligations would have acted the same way as the Ministry of Transport then. I will receive a decision, waive the right to submit a breakdown, but, in order to rule out doubt, I would rather have the authority which issued the decision certify the acquisition of the legal power of this decision. And that's what happened. Both the Ministry of Transport as a party to the proceedings and the Office for the Protection of Competition as an administrative body exercising public authority in this area, in both their instances, considered that the precautionary measure had expired. Once again, it's gone. It wasn't until nearly nine months later that a regional court had been judged that the matter was different. Whether we like it or not, we must act accordingly. However, we must not forget that the original cause is the legal opinion of the court, which is diametrically different from that of the central administrative authority, which, as an agreement body, applies public procurement law and whose views incorporated into its decision-making activities are already and must be respected by the contracting authority. Even in this situation, does the Ministry resent his progress? I mean, everyone would have to do that. However, I understand that you, as with the Czech public, have special attention to what we are going to do with the situation. How to deal with the current decision-making practice of the Regional Court in Brno and the Office. Again, I would like to emphasise the fundamental fact, namely that the toll contract is valid and effective - regardless of the last irregular decision taken by the Office. Even in this worst case, the toll contract will be effective for at least another 13 to 15 months, as it will take approximately one to three months to review the winding-up procedure of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, and if the Chairman of the Prime Decision confirms, the contract will be valid and effective for a further 12 months from the receipt of such a decision by the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition of the Ministry of Transport. In view of what has already been addressed, I therefore evaluate the situation in the following way. Even in the case of the most unfavourable development, as of today, the Ministry of Transport has 13 to 15 months available to prepare a backup solution to collect tolls during the 13 to 15 months. The preparation of the backup solution will consist of two parallel issues. First of all, the preparation of a new transparent procurement procedure, which will be the subject of electronic toll system operation services, which is now being completed by CzechToll and SkyToll. The electronic toll system will be in operation by then. Therefore, we no longer have to compete with the supply of tolling systems. We'll have a satellite system. From our experience so far, we know that in 13 to 15 months we can prepare and start a new competition, but we certainly cannot finish it at that time. And without a doubt, there will not be a time limit of 12 months in addition to the new competition, which is necessary for the transfer and takeover of toll system operation. The last competition without the time needed to prepare the competition from the start to the time the contract was signed lasted 15 months, followed by a period for the operation of the electronic toll system, which will be around 6 months to one year. Even with time to prepare the competition, let's count 6 months, we need at least 27 to 33 months in very optimistic development. Therefore, we must not close our eyes to this fact. It would be irresponsible. In the event that we are not successful both at the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition and with our appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court, we must be prepared to ensure the selection of the myth until the completion of the new competition using extraordinary means under the Public Procurement Act. We would only agree to this and only if we could not complete the new competition and pass the toll system on time to the winning supplier. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to mention a few more issues and a small assessment of them. I give the amounts without value added tax. The current toll system supplied by Kapsch has cost us approximately CZK 29,4 billion since the last 13 years. The investment costs amounted to CZK 6 billion and the operating costs CZK 23.4 billion. The toll system supplied by CzechToll/SkyToll requires total costs of the estimated amount - investment costs of 2.6 billion including both units, operating costs of approximately 5.3 billion, additional deliveries and services on order of approximately CZK 2.6 billion and costs of shutting down the system CZK 51 million. In summary, it is therefore an amount of 10.4 - sorry, 10.7. So a new system of CZK 10.7 billion against the existing system of CZK 29.4 billion. And that's for delivering a brand-new toll system, its ten-year operation and development, an additional 900 kilometers on the charging network. So once again, the new system of CZK 10.7 billion in 10 years, the original system in the last 13 years, 29.4 billion. It is quite obvious that it was the right toll system to overcompete that saving on operating costs is quite obvious. Therefore, we continue to count on the CzechToll/SkyToll toll system and we want its operation, if necessary, to compete and operate it in the future. Well, that's my word for introduction. In view of my participation in the inspection committee that I participated in, given the government's meeting where I provided information, I would like to introduce you to some of the questions that have fallen and to the answers that we have provided or tried to explain. Well, I'd take it one step at a time. Why is the electronic toll system delivered to the ownership of the Czech Republic? Owned and not realized by a mere service, as is the case in Slovakia? On this point, I would like to say this: The electronic toll system records various data for the purposes of its operation within the framework of the so-called "electronic toll system'. Toll data log. The record of toll data is part of the toll system and is also an information system of public administration. According to the Public Administration Information Systems Act, the administrator of this system is responsible for it. In order to be able to bear this responsibility for the system, its operation and its administration, to fulfil all legal obligations, its administrator must have control over the system, both in legal terms - which are copyright rights, to have with license, with the right to operate the system, develop, adjust, whether alone or with the help of others - and in de facto terms. The administrator shall be able to effectively influence and control the operation of the system. The above is possible only by the ownership of the system, not by a simple service. Regarding the very difference in the solution in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, in other words toll service versus system ownership and its operation, the primary difference between the approach in our country and Slovakia lies in the difference between the legal order and the requirements for information systems of public administration of the parties to their administration and operation. The advantage of ownership of the electronic toll system can be seen in the fact that if, for various reasons, the service provider has ceased operating, the State should at least have a system that can be operated by another entity. Due to the modularity of the new electronic toll system and its open architecture, it is possible to operate it more successfully and faster than in the case of an existing electronic toll system, which has no open architecture, and the user, i.e. the Czech Republic, is called. Locked by the user. Otherwise, where the charging is then carried out only by a service, as is the case in Slovakia, there would be nothing in the hands of the State in the event of any complications on the part of the contracted entity and the whole matter would have to be dealt with from the outset. [[18.20 hours]] It must be noted that, in the case of a service, it is already necessary to build a system, although it is not owned by the State but by the contracted entity. So this option also involves the time subsidy needed to build the system and its proper testing, as well as the actual necessity of the contracting entity to pay for such a system, although not directly, but in regular payments for providing the service of operation. From the perspective of the Czech Republic, the delivery of electronic toll system to the ownership of the Czech Republic is clearly more advantageous. Another question that has been raised: Why is toll collection not ensured after 2019 by the consortium of Kapsch? Answer: The current electronic toll system is unable to meet the requirements of the Czech Government of the Parties to extend the I. class power-charged roads by approximately 900 km, which was adopted by the Czech Government by resolution number 1000 of 7 November 2016. It must be added that the Czech Government, by its resolution number 188 of 9 March 2016, has already assigned the Ministry of Transport the task of preparing and implementing technologically neutral procurement procedures for the supply and operation of the electronic myth system. In other words, Kapsch does not have a system capable of satisfying the needs of the contracting authority. The current toll system cannot do this, proof of which is that Kapsch did not count on the current toll system in its offer. Why the new toll system will not be operated by the state, it was also one of the questions. In general, the State has not yet, at least as far as the administration of applications is concerned, had a completely good condition to operate almost any public administration information system without any assistance from other entities. There are not both professional and personnel, production and other capacities. The operation of the electronic toll system involves its software modifications, changes or renewals responding to current developments and, of course, general ageing, which the state is not able to secure because it does not have appropriate software specialists, developers and architects. At the same time, the State is unable to secure without subcontractors the production of on-board units, their repair, repair, logistics and distribution, the production of control gate components, patrol vehicle components and vehicles themselves. The State is not currently able to charge tolls, it does not have banking institutions, including mass printing, to distribute documents. Furthermore, it is not able to provide customer service. That's it. The advantage of a single general contractor can be seen in the fact that this supplier is fully responsible for the perfect functioning of this system and, in the case of any outages, is responsible for the collection of tolls. This means that, apart from the contractual penalty, the State must also pay the tolls that have not been selected. A counterweight of payments for the operation of the toll system is the absolute responsibility of the supplier for the selected toll secured by the relevant bank guarantee. In the event that the State theoretically operates the electronic toll system itself, it would have to provide a number of activities through individual subcontractors, thus taking on a substantial part of the responsibility for the impeccable functioning of the system as a whole. At the same time, it would have to deal with the responsibility of individual subcontractors for their possible lack of performance. In extreme cases, subcontractors could blame each other, so that not only would the State create damage to lost tolls, non-existent contractual penalties, but would still have to deal with partial responsibility for the system's malfunction. It should be added that one procurement procedure per general contractor would fall apart on a number of procurement procedures per subcontractor, sub-contractor, when the entire project could fall in case of failure of one procurement procedure. The logical question - why the Ministry of Transport signed a toll contract in such an uncertain legal situation. Because the situation at that time, at the time of the signing of the contract, did not seem this uncertain. The contracting authority gave up the right to submit a breakdown and, in order to ensure that the decision, i.e. the termination of the provisional measure prohibiting the signature of the contract, required the Office for the Protection of Competition to indicate the legal power of the decision, so-called. a clause of legal authority. I think each and every one of you asked for a legal clause, so he knows what I'm talking about. Thus, the situation did not appear uncertain at the time, on the contrary, everything was done to dispel doubts about the correctness of the next procedure. The question is - I mentioned it in part - why the contract was concluded so quickly, on the same day that the competition authority itself decided. There was nothing to wait for at the time. The contracting authority gave up the right to submit a breakdown, had the legal power of the decision confirmed. He therefore did everything that the responsible addressee of the right should and could do. The entire toll contract competition was only implemented so that the toll contract could be concluded. Therefore, the contract was concluded at the earliest opportunity it could have been concluded. However, it was not just the opinion of the Ministry of Transport. It was mainly the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition expressed in two instances, which confirmed the accuracy of the procedure at that time. Only after nine months did another player enter into the matter with another legal opinion, namely the Regional Court in Brno. Another question that was raised was why only the operation of the existing toll system was not competing, why the state is buying a new toll system. Because that is what the government imposed by its resolution at the time, and it did so in order to ensure a technologically neutral procurement procedure, i.e. in order to offer both the operation of the existing toll system and the supply of infrastructure for the tolled extension of the network of tolled roads, or the delivery and operation of a completely new toll system. The supply and operation of the new toll system proved to be economically viable, since none of the competitors offered the operation of the existing toll system. That's why the new toll system. Another question that has been asked: What damage can there be? Is the State in danger because of the Ministry of Transport's mistakes? Who in particular will be responsible for them? If I consider that the procedure of the contracting authority in the procurement procedure was lawful under the final decisions of the Office for the Protection of Competition, how can we talk about errors on the part of the Ministry of Transport? The Ministry of Transport acted in accordance with the final decisions of the Office for the Protection of Competition. As regards the question of the appropriateness of the moment of signing the contract, the participation of both the State and CzechToll and SkyToll in the situation is exactly the same. The company was well aware of the procedural situation as well as of the contracting authority's actions, and with its signature, it indicated that it considered that the toll contract could be signed. The company was not deceived in any way, it was not misled in any way, it was not used by any deceit. Thus, the state represented by the Ministry of Transport has the same great participation in any resulting effect as the said companies. If the compensation claim is applied, I can say that the Ministry will not provide it, it does not see any factual or legal reason. Anyway, we will argue in a court or other body, if any. If these were any claims made by Kapsch, I do not see any reason for them. Kapsch failed in the competition, did not submit the most appropriate offer, was not a winning supplier, and the final decisions of the competition authority were stated that the contracting authority's procedure was correct. Even here, I see no reason for compensation from the Ministry of Transport. But I also respond to this situation and set up a working group at the Ministry of Transport to address the possible effects of judicial or other proceedings. It will be composed of representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, the Office for the Protection of Competition and, of course, the Ministry of Finance. [[18.30 hours]] One of the penultimate questions that was raised there was: How will you proceed if Kapsch sues the Czech Republic or starts international arbitration? I can assure everyone that we will consistently defend the property interests of the state and use all legal legal means to do so. I'm referring to everyone. First of all, that Kapsch failed in the toll tender, especially because he did not submit the best offer, but placed himself second in order. Kapsch was not guaranteed by anyone to supply toll services to the Czech Republic for eternity. So much for suing the Czech courts. As far as international arbitration is concerned, I can't imagine what kind of claim Kapsch would like to make. I cannot imagine the legal basis of Kapsch's argument, aside from some relativisation of bilateral investment-protection contracts recently judged by the Court of Justice of the European Union or from the point of view of international investment-protection agreements. Have investments been disposed of in the Czech Republic? No. The state of the toll system generously, and as you've heard, he paid generously. And he paid for the toll system. Was Kapsch promised to run a toll system in the Czech Republic for eternity? No doubt he didn't. We will reject Kapsch's claims as unfounded. And the last question that has to do with it: How will you proceed if SkyToll claims damages? Once again, we will defend this requirement as unfounded. The company was well aware of the procedural situation and the contracting authority's actions, and with its signature it indicated that it considered that the toll contract could be signed. We see no room for any compensation. I'm sorry about the whole situation as Minister of Transport. I am sorry for the carriers, because they are dizzyed by the current legal situation caused by the decision of the Regional Court in Brno and by the binding legal opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition. The Department of Transport needs carriers to change OBU units. Time passes and as of 1 December 2019 we have a new satellite toll system. As of January 1, 2020, we have a fee of one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u5	Thank you, Minister. Vice-President Okamura has applied with priority rights. Before the counter comes, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Jana Krutáková apologizes today from 18.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Marian Bojko today from 17.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský today from 18.00 to the end of the day and tomorrow from 9 to 17.00 for health reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová today from 18.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons and Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 18.00 to the end of the day. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the tender for the toll system has been accompanied since the beginning of the uncertainty and is a clear example of either the enormous incompetence and incompetence, or, worse, corruption, because the state has not acted in it under the law, nor in such a way as to ensure the most advantageous performance of the contract. The selection procedure for the toll system was announced as a negotiated procedure with publication. In practice, this means that in the first round they will give the applicants a quote and then it is the prices and parameters of the project. This makes it possible to negotiate the best conditions with the candidates and to select the most advantageous offer. The then Minister of Transport Dan Ťok for the ANO movement, however, surprisingly gave up this possibility and did not discuss the prices and parameters of the project with the candidates. The time for this was then - forced by the Autonomous Office, which cancelled the tender last May, and at this time it was possible to negotiate with all applicants for a better price. But the Department of Transport didn't do it. The company Kapsch allegedly immediately offered a lower price than the selected company of PPF Group. As well as being prepared to negotiate the ELTODO price. The State had a real opportunity to negotiate the most advantageous price. Instead, we have witnessed a series of strange and even unlawful steps to secure the contract to a single bidder, regardless of the benefits of the offer. Ministry of Transport 20. 9. 2018 with unprecedented speed, it concluded a ten-year contract with the consortium of companies CzechToll and SkyToll to operate a satellite toll system on motorways and selected first-class roads. The competition authority delivered the decision to the Ministry at 13 o'clock, and already at 16 o'clock the Minister of Transport announces that he had given up decomp and signed a contract with the winner. In a single day, the competition authority had previously rejected the complaint of the unsuccessful company Kapsch Telematic Services against the tender. Some information even says that at least a week before the signing of the contract, representatives of CzechToll submitted requests to the authorities at various locations of the Republic to issue a building permit for the construction of a myth. David Šimoník of Kapsch commented on this at the time - and I quote: "Indeed, the unseated political pressure exerted on an independent supervisory institution has worked out. The rule of law gets hit hard because the strategy is beginning to be pursued that you can break the law, but when there are higher political interests, the law somehow bends and adapts. We assumed, like the Office for the Protection of Competition, that the interim measures would remain in force until the Authority dealt with our possible degradation." End of quote. Followed by what could be expected. The damaged company Kapsch turned to the court and it quite logically annulled the Authority's decision to protect competition because it was unlawful. On 16 May 2019, the Regional Court in Brno finally ruled that Kapsch was right, and the Office for the Protection of Competition must deal properly and finally with its objections to the tender. The competition protection authority, together with the Ministry of Transport, lodged an appeal with the Supreme Administrative Court and at the same time requested that the court postpone its enforceability until the Supreme Administrative Court decides on the bill. The Supreme Administrative Court has failed to comply with the request for deferral. Therefore, the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition initiated the dispute proceedings, but did not respect the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and immediately suspended the proceedings until the Supreme Administrative Court decided on the bill. Once again, the Brno Court has complied with this application by Kapsch and has ordered the Antimonopoly Office to decide the objections without delay by 9 September. After the obstructions, the chief of office, Petr Rafaj, decided to reject the objections in decomp. Also another Regional Court in Brno on 11 July 2019, which is recently, finally decided that Kapsch was right, with the fact that the toll contract was signed unlawfully, because actually the preliminary measures that prevent the signing were still in force. Just to illustrate, it's good to know that the doubt in the tender that SkyToll won isn't the first. The Slovak company SkyToll was founded in November 2008. A year later, she won a tender for the construction and operation of an electronic toll collection system in Slovakia, which she has been collecting since 2010. The contract was closed for 13 years. Skytoll won the tender because he was left alone in the competition after the exclusion of other candidates, which was then criticized by the European Commission as non-discriminatory and non-standard. It is clear that even in our case, the winner of the competition acted in synergy with the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport did not at any time admit that there could be any fault with the toll tender and decided to launch a new toll system with force regardless of the legal and economic convention. Even the new Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík for the ANO movement after taking office did not allow independent analysis of the economic advantage of the chosen solution or legal risks of the whole situation. The state of its own mistakes was in a situation where even a few years later, the future choice of myth has not been resolved. He tossed an existing billion-dollar toll system into the trash. He built a new system for the useless billions, but only for a single year. Moreover, the taxpayer is likely to pay billions for compensation to the competitor, Kapsch, for damage caused to rights. All we had to do was follow the law and sound common sense, and until the last moment we could deal with all those involved in a reasonable compromise. [[18.40 hours]] The toll system is a historical pain of the Czech Republic. First, it was selected under suspicious circumstances by an outdated toll-gate system, and to this day, the government is unable to secure the construction of a new functional system and it is not even clear what the toll-system is intended to cover. From a layman's point of view, nothing is easier than a toll system. In practice, this means only using GPS to monitor the routes of carriers and subsequently bill them. All we need to do is install a GPS module in the car and somewhere a computer system that monitors and reloads the routes. GPS locators have had company cars for years and companies have been working with their data long ago. What the state is going to spend billions on, companies have been doing for years and for very little purchase money. Moreover, it is incomprehensible that only certain types of first-class roads are to be charged for freight transport. If the car has a GPS locator, then I have an overview of its entire route. The freight transport is the most devastating on the roads of lower classes and those leading the centres of cities and municipalities. The reason is clear. Traffic on these roads is the most devastating, damaging communication, damaging houses along the roads, dangerous, causing traffic jams, accidents, and, of course, provenly and extremely damaging the health of local citizens. Instead, by charging the best and fastest routes, the government is driving a part of carriers into the streets of our cities and to the second and third-class roads that are not adapted to massive heavy goods transport. Forgive me, but only a fool or a person who doesn't care what the consequences are for ordinary citizens, municipalities and cities. The whole situation reminds a lot of the situation with the tender for localization bracelets for domestic prisoners. The Justice Department has several times written tenders for hundreds of millions on bracelets, which, at the time and with localization software, cost thousands of crowns. And it was more than clear that it was probably just about stealing public money into a project that the public could hope to not understand. The toll system turns out to be a similar case when it's not about efficiency, it's about billions getting a pre-selected company. Moreover, for these billions, the traffic situation in our cities will not improve, but will get worse. The whole tender would be best to cancel and announce again, with parameters that favour the maximum advantage for the state and citizens. But I can imagine a much simpler solution, where the state simply rules the obligation to have a standardised locator connected to the state-run system in a truck and then, on the basis of the data supplied by it, the tax office may measure tolls or road taxes to the operator. Simple, cheap and feasible. But such solutions, as we know, are most difficult to enforce, because the only person who really makes money on them would be a citizen, and apparently no one cares about his interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u7	I thank you and will read the apology of Mr Lipavský, who apologizes today to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. No one is logged in with priority rights, so we are going back to the debate. Mr. Blaha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I have been watching the toll situation for some time now, and I am certainly not pleased with that situation. At the beginning of my speech, I was prepared to say that Minister Kremlík is probably the only one in this country who constantly claims that everything is okay around the toll tender and that there is actually no damage to the state. However, today I would consider his performance more like weeping over spilled milk and putting off those imaginary pink glasses, because I was incredibly impressed after the performance that the seriousness of the situation was already beginning to become aware. Let him be honored that he did not cause the situation, he as a person certainly is not responsible for the problems he now has to deal with. However, the whole thing has one common denominator, and that is the government of experts from the YES movement at the Ministry of Transport. I think it is necessary to recall what happened during the famous tolling of the tender, the tender for which Minister Jok was praised by Prime Minister Babiš, stating that Minister Ťok is practically the only one who was able to compete over the toll tender in Europe. So let's briefly recall a few of these facts. The important thing is that the contract with the winner of the CzechToll toll tender and SkyToll was signed by Exministr Dan Ťok respectively. his deputy Kopřiva last September, through preliminary measures of the Office for the Protection of Competition, which prohibited him precisely this. Instead of waiting for the interim measure to come to an end, Kapsch gave a fundamental argument for the annulment of the contract, with which the Regional Court in Brno and, for the time being, the Office for the Protection of Competition first and foremost. At the same time, I will respond to the Minister's words that they thought the interim measures did not apply. As mayor himself, and all my colleagues will confirm it, I can't imagine signing a contract through a ban on the Office for the Protection of Competition. This is simply illegal, therefore such an act must be considered unlawful from the outset. If the Prime Minister were sitting here today, I'd like to ask him if, even after everything we've been through with the toll tender, he would have repeated his words about a highly successful Minister of Transport. Toll tender, from my point of view, is also a big scam. Fraud, Babišův government's biggest fraud in charge, mayor and captains. In fact, Prime Minister Babiš, together with Exministr Táok, repeatedly promised them last year that the extension of the toll to 800 km of first-class roads in the regions would not be charged. Even with them, Dan Ťok signed a special memorandum on this topic last October. After taking up his duties, the new Minister Kremlík immediately canceled and will charge all sections of the roads of the first classes in full. And I understand him. Because if there was a good reason to change the myth selection system, i.e. from the microwave systems placed on the toll gates on the GPS system, so of course the charging of the first class roads was precisely this argument, because any candidate who would further prefer the toll gate system would be disadvantaged. Of course, charging first-class roads with toll gates is a very expensive and practically impossible thing. Therefore, no offer for further operation of the existing toll system has arrived. By the way, the toll system, which cost the state approximately CZK 12 billion, and at this point it is about halfway through its lifetime. So the state is actually throwing away a small amount, and it has no further use for toll gates at the moment. I have to ask, of course, why. Another problem is that the myth or the tender itself is still in the view of the Olomouc and Prague Supreme Prosecutor's Office. Until now, there is an open point in the House to the Faltýnek case, where apparently there has been a breach of the Public Procurement Act in connection with the toll tender. First of all, the President of the ANO Faltýnek Parliamentary Club instructs the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition on how he should proceed to intervene more or less in favour of Kapsch, so that the Prime Minister himself and the Minister of Transport intervene in the opposite direction. So the assignment was the opposite in this case, and the Prime Minister even bragged about it in the media. We're still waiting for this police investigation to end. [[18.50 hours]] And now for the actual event. Kapsch had two legal disputes. Objection against the toll tender itself - here the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court failed in September this year. And the dispute over the nullity of the toll contract, here the Regional Court in Brno gave him two finals for the truth this year and forced the Office for the Protection of Competition to take action. The decision of the Office for the Protection of Competition is still unrighteous and primal, it is the result of this second dispute. And the fact that the signing of the contract with CzechToll, SkyToll, isn't okay, no one's gonna change that. The competition authority could only decide in the second instance, and Czech legislation makes it possible to admit that even if this is all illegal, it is in the public interest to continue the contract because it is in the strategic economic interest of the Czech Republic. However, the competition authority could have done this in the first instance, and the fact that this did not happen is clearly proof that it does not have sufficient legal and economic arguments for this. The Czech Republic has a functional toll system and the existing operator could continue until the new tender. Well, let's go to the finals. Whatever this expression, let me say, the toll asylum will end in any way, one of the giants will weep over earnings and undoubtedly go to international arbitration with the Czech Republic. The chances of reparation are almost certain by now. A complete paradox would have occurred if neither the Kapsch nor the CzechToll, SkyToll, had won in the case of the new tender in 2020, that would have undoubtedly threatened arbitration two. So if everything's going to be okay with you after everything I've said, I certainly don't think so. In order not to make any more of a point of fact, I will allow myself a few responses to the Minister's speech. As I have already said, the current system and its further operation have been disadvantaged precisely by the fact that I. class roads have been charged, so that no offer has been received to talk about the further operation of toll gates is perfectly logical. The fact that the Ministry of Transport does not agree with the view of the courts, I believe that, of course, but those courts have the final say in this regard, and although the opinion of the Ministry of Transport can be any, it does not change the fact that the Regional Court in Brno has decided what it has decided, and the Office for the Protection of Competition must act. The Ministry will not voluntarily provide a replacement, here was heard from the Minister's mouth. Well, of course, he can't voluntarily provide compensation, that's what the aforementioned international arbitrations will decide, which I hope is clear. Well, what's going to happen with the current toll system worth about 12 billion. CZK, which is really in the middle of its lifetime and could be operated on, the state is throwing it into the trash today, which is of course the next question, but I do not want to burden here at this time, this has been decided by the government when setting the parameters of the tender itself. I want to conclude that I would like the Czech Republic not to have any of what I have said here today. So she doesn't have to deal with anyone, pay any compensation, but I'm afraid it's too late for that. Those who once entered it should have thought about it a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u9	Thank you. With a point of fact, the Minister is reporting to whom I will give the floor after I have read the apology. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes today from 18.45 until the end of the day. And Mrs Ožanová today between 18.50 and 21.00 due to illness. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u10	Only briefly if I can respond to Mr Okamura's speech. The decision of the Ministry of Transport not to negotiate further in the proceedings was not surprising. This option has already been laid down in the text of the tender documents themselves. At that time the Ministry of Transport was satisfied with the offers, decided to implement the time saving and thus concluded the contract. As far as the decision of the competition authority itself is concerned, it was expected, taking into account the procedural procedure at that time. With regard to the evaluation of President Okamura through Mr President, I must say that the first decision of the Regional Court in Brno, referred to by President Okamura, was annulled by the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. On the second decision of the Regional Court in Brno, I merely state that this is currently being reviewed by the Supreme Administrative Court, and therefore the decision of the Regional Court in Brno may not be final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u11	Thank you. Another apology: Mr Josef Kott apologizes from 19.40 pm to the end of the meeting for business reasons. Mrs Matušovská will speak in the debate, Mr Dolínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we have already discussed this issue on several occasions on the Audit Committee, and we have been discussing this every quarter of every year since 2014, when the Ministry of Transport presents information on the course of the selection procedure for suppliers and toll system operators. At the moment it will actually be every month, we approved it. The competition protection authority illegally prohibited the performance of the contract for a new toll system between the Ministry of Transport and the CzechToll consortium and SkyToll. However, the prohibition shall not apply until one year after the final decision of the Office. The Department of Transport has confirmed that it will bring down decay against him. You also confirmed the information that the resort has launched a backup plan, where it only wants to search for new service operators in the worst case. In this regard, how should carriers that are becoming victims and hostages these days feel as a result of the inability of the Ministry of Transport? Transporters who have to buy new on-board units, and because of this alarming information, don't get too involved. So far 38,000 vehicles from 4,000 carriers have been registered. There are also criticizing opinions from the ČSSD where I have to remind you that the idea of extending tolling to Class 1 roads was their idea, this time it was up to 3,000 km, and we have to admit that less than 900 km was the political decision of the previous government. There is also a need to mention another fairy tale in the context of the decision of the Office for the Protection of Competition, where instead of abolishing the implementation of the contract immediately and continuing for a transitional period under the existing system, we will introduce a new system for a year - and then what? Another experiment? Or do you think we'll just compete for service? Do you really believe, Minister, that a new tender for services will be dealt with? Does it make sense to separate system operation from hardware supplier? It should be noted that this will fall unpleasantly on the carrier, but most importantly the uncertainty may be due to the collapse of the entire system, including a state budget failure. [[Noisy calls on the left side of the hall.]] Dear Minister, you should submit detailed information on the course of the selection procedure on 23 October, 6 November and 4 December at the Audit Committee. We look forward to you telling us all the things we know about it, and that the new system will be like 1. 12th, 1st. 1. work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u13	I thank the Member and I would ask my fellow Members to calm down because we are not finished. Mr. Petr Dolínek plus is now reporting with the Prime Minister's priority right. So if we listen to each other, if we listen to each other, we don't interrupt, maybe we'll end up early. So, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief response to Mr Blaha's remarks. I spoke about the tolling of the tender as part of my introductory words. It is not true that the toll contract is invalid. I never claimed that the contract would have been signed against the prohibition of signing, but in the opinion of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic and the Office itself for the Protection of Competition at the time of the signing of the contract, the provisional measure forbidding the conclusion of the contract had already expired and therefore did not exist. The decision of the Regional Court in Brno, which presents a different legal opinion, is currently subject to review by the Supreme Administrative Court. I have already mentioned the figures relating to the cost of the original and new toll system in my introductory words. As regards the idea of the possibility of operating an existing system of an existing operator, this cannot be correct, since there is no way to legally extend the contract with Kapsch. I also spoke in the introductory words about the risk of arbitrage and damages. Dear Member, I agree that the courts have the last word. I merely stress that one ruling of the Regional Court in Brno relating to this matter has already been annulled by the Supreme Administrative Court. The second decision relating to the existence of a preliminary measure prohibiting the performance of the contract shall be reviewed by the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u15	Thank you. [[Noise across the O.R. The President is waiting.]] Some almost didn't notice we interrupted the hearing. Thank you. I will ask Mr Petr Dolínek to take the floor in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very often hearing here from different mouths in the Chamber of Deputies about what social democracy is responsible for. Sometimes I am glad, for example, to grow pensions, we are proud to report to that, sometimes there are also certain errors and we are able to confess to them. But there is one area where I can say 100% that social democracy is not connected to it. And it's a myth. Social democracy, although it has historically offered experts, and this was not in the presence of the Minister, therefore I am not speaking to him, but I am speaking in general, we have offered experts in the initial provisions around myth, in preparation for this competition as well. We've never been heard. [[That's right: we've always been heard.]] But this does not mean that we do not want to be held responsible as a government party. That is why, in the context of social democracy, I want to say that the absolute priority for us is not to interrupt the collection of money from the myth. This money is very important for Czech infrastructure, not only for motorways. Note that most residents live in municipalities that need their bypasses, need to get between cities to work or their children to school or to visit their relatives, grandmothers, grandfathers. We therefore support that selection always be. Therefore, we will support such a solution by the Ministry of Transport, where the Minister of Transport, in accordance with legal standards, will ensure that it always happens in accordance with the law that the toll will be chosen and that the myth will subsequently be well used. Of course, we refuse to let the government take responsibility for itself. The law doesn't allow her to do that. We are clearly saying that the Ministry must resolve these matters in legal capacity. For social democracy, I would like to welcome the Minister's commitment to this in the opening speech, that he has clearly said the way in which the Ministry can go, and so I would like to stress that we are still prepared - and the Minister knows this - to help in all solutions that will lead to no state income blackout, which is the most important for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u17	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u18	I would only like a brief comment on the speech, on the response of Mrs Matušovská. I would just like to say and point out that the carriers are not affected by the current situation. The contract shall be valid and effective. Carriers register in the new system from September 21st of this year and I am asking the carrier to continue to do so, do not wait for the situation to develop. It is necessary to register. As of 1 December this year we are launching a satellite toll system. Of course, I will keep the review committee regularly informed of the developments, as we were ordered at the last meeting, i.e. on a regular basis once a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u19	Thank you. Mr Bartošek is entered into the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to thank you, Minister, for the cultivated and substantive debate on this subject. It's not an easy thing to do. Legally, it's so messed up that I think there's been a legal perpetuum mobile created here, and the only people who are happy about it are lawyers, because the courts are so busy. I have about five questions I'd like to answer if that's possible. Basically, now the transition to new technology means that some toll gates will disappear. I wonder to what extent the value of these gates is and if it is necessary to dispose of them and it is not possible to use them in any other way. Next, you may have said it, but I need to repeat it, I didn't hear the risk that after the year that the Ministry of Transport had obtained the ban on delaying the performance, the toll wouldn't be selected. Whether the situation really threatens to occur, because the really blackout of a billion a month from the myth is actually a major state budget outage, and what steps are you taking to prevent the myth from falling out? I also wonder why the Ministry of Transport did not consider going the way of Austria at the very beginning, for example, that means transforming sluices, doing that the myth would basically be run by the state, because for the current model we have in ten years expected roughly the same scenario of different competitions and possibly conjectures. Then I am interested in first-class roads because we have 1/20 and 1/22 roads in the region, in southern Bohemia. One will be charged, the other will not be charged, and of course the residents on that first-class road will not be charged. I wonder whether you will correct what happened at the very beginning and all the A's will be charged, or whether those who are charged will be removed because it is unfair to those who must live near first-class roads, when they will not be charged, and the roads and traffic will move there. And the last question is the question of electronic myth, whether this tool was built by Kapsch and whether you took over it, whether a new electronic myth will be built at the same time with the new company, and if it doesn't use what Kapsch built, how much the state lost and how much the investment is ruined. [[Noise across the O.R.]] Finally, let me thank you for being aware of the risks that the current situation carries, and that you do not paint it all pink like the previous minister did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u21	Thank you, and I really must say that the noise that's here at 7:07 is really big and I can barely hear what the speakers are saying. Thank you very much. Minister, I assume you want to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u22	There were a number of questions. I would ask the honourable Member to answer them in detail within the framework of the inspection committee, but I will now try to say and answer most of the questions out of my head. What about toll gates since 2020? What can they be used for? Part of the existing toll system will, of course, be used to build a new system. The remaining part of the system, especially the individual gates, will be used for telematics on motorways. We want a modern highway, an intelligent highway, so we'll use some of it within intelligent transport systems. Thus, especially as a camera system, equipment for operational information, variable traffic signs, line traffic control, traffic detection in the opposite direction, sectional speed measurement and, of course, high-speed control weighing. I'd like to stop by high-speed control weighing. In the middle of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, we concluded, in negotiations with the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Transport Police, with which we have been dealing very actively since June of this year with the consequences of charging, that it would be appropriate to support the regions by providing appropriate funds and subsidies to support the building of high-speed control scales, that control scales could then help in solving the charging of ones. [[19.10 hours]] Toll gates are owned by the Czech Republic. There are approximately 275 of them on motorways and first-class roads. The remaining value of the State's assets, the toll system, is approximately 2.2 billion, according to the Supreme Audit Office's findings. Crowns. CzechToll and SkyToll will use 45 control gates from the current system on motorways and 10 I. class roads. The technical conditions impose an obligation to use the existing design of the control gates in places where the control gates of the new system have been designed. The exact plan for the use of toll gates constructions that will not be used for toll selection after 1 January 2020 is established. It will then be possible to accurately estimate investments in new technologies that would be installed on these structures. Some of these toll gates then I want them to be used for the needs of videotolling. You probably remember, it wasn't that long ago when we approved an amendment to the Road Act, which will finally make it possible for us to buy road signs in a modern way, electronically, and not remove them with a razor blade at the end of the year, cut ourselves and stick new ones. So that's one of the functions that the new tollgates should help with. Before answering any further questions, I must return to Mr Dolínk, Mr Dolínek, to the participation of the ČSSD in the issue of myth. I cannot remind there that ČSSD experts participated, especially in the fact that they proposed to charge 850 to 3,000 km of I. class roads. We're about 900 km from this spread today. So the CSSD experts were already there at the time. With regard to the charge of ones, of course, the ones are charged in the range of approximately 900 km. The situation is probably not ideal, but within the working group where we deal with the consequences of tolling myths at the top, we are prepared if it turns out that the ones will be charged after uncharged ones, and I am ready to respond to this as the Minister of Transport and to make an appropriate amendment to the legislation and to extend the charge to any one that would be bypassed. As far as number one's concerned. Then what is the real practical scenario? I informed more about this in detail at the Audit Committee and subsequently at the Government's meeting. With regard to the period we have, 12 months in principle plus 3 months, if the state were unsuccessful, we must prepare a transparent competition for the toll system service that we will have in the property of the Czech Republic. As I have pointed out, this will be an information system for public administration, which we will be taking over in the autumn and which will allow the satellite toll system to start working on 1 December this year. We will prepare procurement procedures for the services of operation of this system, which will be in the property of the Czech Republic. That's the first thing. The time for this will be extremely short. So, as Mr Dolínek has already pointed out here, we are bound by law, the law on public procurement, budgetary rules, the law on the property of the Czech Republic and a number of legislation and in the intensity of this legislation we will have to move. So it turns out that if we fail to compete with traffic services, we will have to use extraordinary procurement methods, which is probably a negotiated procedure. So that's the reality we're in. But once again, I want to assure that the start of the toll collection system on 1 December of this year is not in any danger, the contract is valid, it has not been cancelled, there is only an irregular decision that postpones the ban on the performance of the contract by up to one year, and only when the decision of the UOHS becomes legal. As far as the cost of acquiring the original system is concerned, I was talking about it, the amount is approximately 24 billion. compared to the fact that the new toll satellite system was competed for 10,7 billion. Crowns. As regards the Austrian model mentioned, yes, it can be ideal, but not in the current legal environment. It would require a change of law. And you yourselves, honourable Members, honourable Members, know how long it takes to legislatively amend legislation from the time it is well prepared with the relevant ministries before it passes through the legislative process. So some things just can't be done right away. Maybe I should mention one more thing. In the Department of the Ministry of Transport we implement a change in the legal form of the Directorate of Roads and Motorways to a public limited company. We're gonna have a joint stock company next year. At the same time, we are preparing amendments to legislation that will enable this public limited company to operate effectively. I will, of course, take this initiative, which has fallen here, and within the Ministry, I will take it and take a look at it. This is a very brief response to you Members, to your questions. Finally, I would really like to say that I appreciate the interest in this, that you want to be informed, and I, as the Minister of Transport, want to be transparent to you and I want you to be informed. That is why I have tried to be detailed in the opening speech. We'll put another report on the inspection committee regularly. I can't say one more thing. If you have time, you will be in the mood, look at my Facebook profile, you have a lot of information about how we not only work on the toll system, but also how we build motorways, how we build railways and so on. Thank you for your word and thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u23	Thank you. I have two factual points here. I suppose the first is probably a mistake - Mr Přemysl Mališ, because he is not present in the hall, so I am signing him off, and Mr Blaha. Vice-President Pikal will be prepared for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u24	I'm here to respond to the Minister's repeated claim that the contract is valid. Yes, Minister, the contract is still valid because the first-instance decision of the Office for the Protection of Competition is still not valid. However, what it contains, the communication that the competition authority is sending us, suggests something. So just don't downplay it, because the situation is really serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u25	Thank you. Vice-President Pikal in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u26	I know we're in a general debate. I'd like to generalize the question a little bit. I see a situation that is linked to the situation at the Office for the Protection of Competition. This system has long failed to compete, like other large systems in the state administration, such as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could tell stories. I've already asked the Prime Minister about this situation, who has promised that you will deal with it. In the person of the director of the office is concentrated power, the director is also investigated in connection with the situation surrounding the myth. I'd like to ask if you've already dealt with the CEO's person in the government as promised, haven't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u27	I thank the Vice-President for his speech. I do not see anyone else enrolled in the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll read an apology. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes today from 19.01. to midnight for family reasons. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words? The rapporteur? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank all the Members who have lasted to the end. I would like to thank the Minister for his approach. As I have said, I am pleased that the Supervisory Committee will regularly address this, including the fact that I appreciate the approach of all Members and Members, that we were willing to include this point regardless of who is in opposition and coalition, and discuss it. So I would like to thank you, colleagues, for this, because this is indeed an essential matter with an impact on the state budget and the functioning of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u29	Thank you. Is the Minister interested in speaking with the final word? [[Yes.]] I'll ask for some peace in the courtroom. We're not finished, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u30	It's just one last sentence. There are questions falling on people and on criminal proceedings, whether those persons have been dealt with, not solved, who should have dealt with them, in which authority of the state, etc. I just have to answer that, if there's a criminal trial, there's still a presumption of innocence. I'm a lawyer, so there's no other way I can answer that in this regard than until there's anyone - anyone - and I'll say, including me - proven by a final judgment of anything, so there's just a presumption of innocence. It is a constitutional democratic principle, and I would not want to be asked questions that are primarily not directed at me, but mainly to law enforcement authorities. And one more thing. Just criminal proceedings are not public in principle, so let the law enforcement authorities take action. If they find any suspects, etc., then the criminal code procedure will apply. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u31	Thank you. At this point, we can proceed to a debate in detail that I have no one to report to. Mr. Rapporteur? [[He doesn't want to get out.]] There is none, so I am ending the detailed debate and ending the discussion of this point without a resolution. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u32	Thank you. Thank you all for your patience and have a safe journey home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-023-305.u33	Thank you and end today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. with the answers to the written interpelations. Have a good night.
