ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u1	4. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 /German Press 605/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposed proposal will be made by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, whom I ask to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to move forward in the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading. The draft state budget was discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Allow me now to thank all the gessional committees for discussing the various chapters of the state budget and the budgetary committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of the documents for second reading. I assume that the amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting, and in this context, I would like to make a small technical remark that the General Treasury chapter has a budget of more than 163 billion. CZK contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment relating to the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoting. I would also like to point out that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the legal minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve, which amounts to 0,3 % of the total expenditure of the state budget. I will communicate my opinion on the proposed amendments at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u3	By his decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered as the 605/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor. Madam President, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u4	Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 32nd meeting of 20 November 2019 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, the House's Press 605, and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 at second reading. Following the opening words of Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová of 9 October 2019, Mrs Vostrá's report and following the debate of the Committee on Budgets I. Notes that all the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the State budget under resolution 751 of 23 October of this year and adopted their resolutions on them, with the exception of the Economic Committee, which discussed Chapter 374 - The Administration of State Material Reserves and did not adopt the resolution; II. Notes that the following committees have recommended: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following accompanying resolutions: 1. Economic Committee proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to commit revenue from the sale of strategic stocks of the State Material Reserve Administration to the future renewal of strategic stocks and requirements for the State Material Reserve Administration.'; [[14.40 hours]] 2. The Defence Committee's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government, in the context of the ongoing discussion of the draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, remove the pay gap between employees of the National Security Office and members of security forces and civil servants.'; [[According to Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members]] [[According to Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service]] 3. A proposal from the Security Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that it take into account the specific position of the staff of the National Cyber and Information Security Office in the labour market and remove the differences in remuneration between the staff of the National Cyber and Information Security Office and the members of the security forces and civil servants, maintain an increase in salaries and ongoing staffing of the Office.'; [[pursuant to Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended]] [[pursuant to Law No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended]] 4. Draft election committee: "The Chamber of Deputies draws the Government's attention to the need to implement Directive 2010/13/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain laws of the Member States governing the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council, including the financial conditions for its implementation by increasing the RRTV budget of up to CZK 10,000 to the necessary operating and personnel expenditure.'; 5. The Foreign Committee's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government take into account the specifics of the occupations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its constituent labour market staff and ensure an adequate increase in salaries.'; III. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget 2020 (the House of Deputies 605) and on the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 under the House Press 605 as amended by the agreed amendments in accordance with Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution." Since both of these annexes are in the resolution, I do not think it is necessary for me to load them here, because you all have the whole document available in writing. This is all from the intelligence report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u5	Thank you. And I have an apology here when Mr. Josef Kott apologizes from the meeting between the 19th and 20th hours for family reasons. I am now opening up a detailed debate on the proposal and I have two priority applications here. He will be the first to appear on behalf of the President of the club with the priority right of Mrs Jana Černochová and will then be prepared again with priority rights, in addition to the written applications they are, President Miroslav Kalousek. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Beautiful afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. As I have also announced in the Defence Committee, I will put forward amendments which, as I firmly believe, will support the current government coalition, because it was precisely this government coalition that committed itself to gradually achieving our commitment to the North Atlantic Alliance through individual budgets, so that the Czech Republic would not be a stowaway and would issue 2% of GDP in defence. I am glad that the Minister of Defence is also present, who will surely give me the truth that the acquisition projects that await us, whether in the budget of 2020, or in those other years, are a lot and will not receive funds. On this occasion, I would also like to mention that I, I think, at some point at the beginning of this year, have put forward a proposal that would bring exactly the 2% of GDP into the legislation, so that the Ministry of Defence and the relevant minister can make life easier in the next few years in the sense that he will not have to fight other ministers for every billion. So if this government is more socialist, which I think maybe it's no longer possible for this government to add even more money and eat the budget as we see it. It is quite clear here that for the 2020 budget, for more funds to be in the revenue section, so it also goes into strategic reserves, into stocks that should actually be used in times of exceptional, such as various natural disasters, floods, earthquakes or extraordinary security incidents. Not at the time of the boom. About the amendments. Let me just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u7	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u8	Allow me to apply to the amendments. One is under number 3854, where I propose to reduce the specific expenditure indicator "allowances to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad', chapter No. 306 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the amount 1.496.676.459,- CZK to the amount 1.466.481.859,- CZK. It's a reduction of CZK 30.195,000. I propose to increase the expenditure of Chapter 307 - Ministry of Defence expenditure block "containment of defence of the Czech Republic by the forces of the Czech Army, the expenditure circuit "sure activity and development of combat forces, forces of combat support and combat security" by this amount, i.e. by the amount of 30.195,000,- CZK. Let me give you a brief explanation. One of the sources for strengthening the Ministry of Defence's budget should be an amount of CZK 30.195.000 from budget chapter 306 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I don't think you'll be surprised. I suggested something like this last year. I think that for this year some positions and positions of the United Nations have not changed, but some of their resolutions have been very radicalized. It is therefore an amount corresponding to the annual contribution of the Czech Republic to the UN Organization for Education, Science and Culture - it is UNESCO. UNESCO has been... in recent years...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u9	Once again, I will have to ask you to calm down, because the Member cannot concentrate. Every Member has the right - I know, someone is smiling - but he has the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to express himself calmly. So again, I would like to ask you to allow the lady to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u10	UNESCO has repeatedly become the subject of politicization in recent years, and its name and credit have been used to spread anti-Israeli propaganda. In its resolutions, the Executive Council of UNESCO repeatedly denied Jewish but also Christian ties to the sacred places of Jerusalem. A similar position was subsequently adopted by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, and it is therefore more than obvious that this organisation, through its bodies, goes beyond an impartial and peaceful supranational authority that should not interfere with political issues. [[14.50 hours]] The reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this amount is fully in line with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 23 May 2017 by which Members called on the Government to suspend the payment of the member contributions to this organisation due to its politicalisation and anti-Israeli rhetoric. Given that the government has not yet taken this step, and given the fact that the position of UNESCO in relation to the State of Israel cannot be considered neutral, the Czech Republic should express by this gesture more than symbolic support for this country, with which it has a historically strong alliance. Suggested increase in Chapter 307 - The Ministry of Defence, together with other funds, would allow at least partially to approach the original objective of issuing 1.4 percent of GDP in defence in 2020, while the planned modernisation of the Army of the Czech Republic, which was approved by the government in the so-called KV of the Czech Republic, some month ago, could also be carried out by our Defence Committee. I also sign up for the second amendment that I have put into the system under number 3855. This amendment of mine proposes to reduce the item "Compensation of fare discounts" in Chapter 327 - Ministry of Transport by 5.5 billion. Crowns. I suggest we increase the expenditure of Chapter 307 - Ministry of Defence expenditure block "Protection of defence of the Czech Republic forces Army of the Czech Republic" expenditure circuit "Protect activity and development of combat forces, forces of combat support and combat security" by 5 billion. Crowns. Furthermore, I propose to increase the expenditure of Chapter 307 - Ministry of Defence the expenditure block "creation and development of a state defence system" the expenditure heading "to secure the political and strategic management of state defence" by 0.5 billion. Crowns. Let me briefly justify my proposal. As I have already mentioned, according to the recommendation of the North Atlantic Alliance, the Czech Republic should issue 2% of GDP per year in defence and, despite economic growth, it is approaching this goal very slowly in recent years. There is therefore a reasonable doubt as to whether it can be fulfilled by 2024. The promise to do so has been made repeatedly by representatives of the Czech Republic and the North Atlantic Alliance. The presidents of the coalition parties of the previous government, in which there were ANO, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, signed an agreement in 2014 that the Ministry of Defence's budget would reach 1.4 percent of GDP in 2020. This promise was to shift the existing coalition by a year, so it is to be achieved in 2021. However, looking at the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence over the last five years, it has been shown that the assumption of a medium-term outlook on GDP defence spending was more optimistic than reality itself. In particular, for 2020, the share of defence expenditure on GDP, according to the 2018 budget, should be 1.35 %, according to the 2019 budget perspective of 1,31%, and is in fact only to reach 1.28 percent according to the draft budget for 2020. And this is happening at a time when information from the Army of the Czech Republic is being heard that budget growth is slower than expected to accumulate projects and that is why it is already missing and will be missing from the desired modernisation of up to tens of billions of crowns in the coming years. This can be shown again on specific data. In 2020, it is scheduled to go to the Army of the Czech Republic by nearly 1.5 billion. less than planned by the budget forecast approved with the budget for 2019 and by more than 4 billion. less than planned by the budget forecast approved with the budget for 2018. So the army was counting on it to have this money for modernization projects in 2020, and now it doesn't. The main reason for this is to valorize the salaries that depend on the government's decision. Modernization of our armed forces is crucial because of the unstable international security situation to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic, but also its credibility in the eyes of the allies in the North Atlantic alliance. Membership in this organization brings an unprecedented degree of security and prosperity to the Czech Republic. This year we celebrated the round anniversary. Suggested increase in Chapter 307 - The Ministry of Defence of the spending circuit "to secure the activity and development of combat forces, combat support forces and combat security" would return funds to the army with which it counted, and would bring the Czech Republic closer to spending 1.4 percent of GDP in defence. In 2017, in the accession protocols to permanent structured cooperation, PESCO, the Czech Republic undertook to adopt recommendations to issue 2% of the Ministry of Defence's budget for research, development and innovation. The 2020 budget envisages this share, but only 0.6%. In addition, in the coming years, the same amount of research, development and innovation should go on. So, given the rising budget, there will be a further decline in the share. It must be stressed that it is not only a commitment under PESCO, but that expenditure on research, development and innovation has a positive effect on the economy as well and increases the competitiveness of Czech companies. Suggested increase in Chapter 307 - The Ministry of Defence of the expenditure circuit "to ensure political and strategic management of state defence" would allow to increase the share of expenditure on research, development, innovation to less than 1,3 percent of the Ministry of Defence budget, which will help to modernise the Czech Army and increase the competitiveness of companies and institutions involved in defence research, development and innovation. The means to increase the chapter of the Ministry of Defence can be found in Chapter 327 - Ministry of Transport under the heading "Compensation of fare discounts'. This compensation is unaddressed and increases the expenditure side of the budget without any significant social effect. In contrast to the compensation mentioned, defence is the primary task of the state and is in favour of all citizens. It is therefore necessary to pay the utmost attention and invest in it. For this reason, my dear colleagues, I beg you to support these amendments at third reading. Thank you for your attention. And I'm canceling my show on a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u11	Yes, I'm marked. Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes today from 16 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for health reasons. Mr Kalousek will now speak with priority rights. And just a moment. I'll read the order. Furthermore, I have been given priority rights by the President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik and also with priority rights by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, and then only at this moment is Mr. Kaňkovský, etc. So, Prime Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just briefly reiterate the position of TOP 09, which, regardless of the amendments tabled at this reading, cannot support the state budget for three fundamental reasons. The first reason is the absence of any solution and zero cost in the system risk budget related to the extension of human age, i.e. pension and public health insurance. [[15.00 hours]] The second reason is the low investment activity of the state, the third reason is the constantly decreasing budgetary resilience to the future cooling of the economy. Unfortunately, this trend is also reflected in the medium term, and it is therefore not possible for us to support the budget in this form. Nevertheless, we believe that some priorities need to be accentuated. The TOP 09 has tabled a total of 22 amendments and we are ready to support a number of proposals from our opposition colleagues on priorities that we believe should be directed there, namely education, security and investment as a whole. Allow me to sign up for two amendments. It is a proposal of 3829 where I propose to increase the expenditure of the chapter of the National Cyber and Information Security Office by 90 million, of which 50 million per salary and 40 million per investment. This is the amount I'm billing against the chapter of the State Debt, a specific indicator of the government debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u13	I would like to ask you to remain calm so that the Member can express himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u14	Thank you. We are objectively at war, ladies and gentlemen, in a cyber war led by intelligence services of foreign power in our territory. In this situation, we have the National Authority for Cyber and Information Security in a situation where it does not have its IT infrastructure completed, it does not have sufficient resources for its development and the average salary in the National Authority is 52,000, which, in the current labour market, does not allow the hiring of really top experts for the area, who could face as well as top experts in the ranks of cyber security attackers. I believe that 50 million for salaries and 40 million for investments is a total of 90 million for strengthening this institution, which has actually been at war, is not money that our budget cannot bear. It's, please, nine times as much as it costs us a one-month fare discount, so maybe we could sacrifice the 90 million a year on priority issues, state security, please. I put my second amendment into the system under number 3830 and... [[Mr Foldyn, who is speaking to another Member in the Chamber.]] Jarda, don't yell!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u15	So now I'd take advantage of the opportunity, the break that naturally arose here. I had a dilemma whether to interrupt the President, but you interrupted it yourself. An Albanian delegation of representatives of the municipalities and universities in Korcë, which is in the Czech Republic to sign a memorandum with the partner cities of the Ústecký Region, arrived at the guest gallery today. Welcome, please. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I'm sure you all know, on the night of Monday to Tuesday, Albania was hit by a severe earthquake that has so far claimed dozens of human casualties and many injured. I suggest we honor their memory with a minute of silence. [[The present rise and hold a minute's silence.]] Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u16	Thank you. I put the second amendment into the system under number 3830. I propose to increase the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by CZK 250 million, in a specific indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations. I also beat this amount against the chapter of the State Debt, a specific indicator of the operation of the state debt. Please allow me to briefly justify this proposal in the amount of CZK 250 million. The school heads are assigned to the 13th tariff class. I do not consider this classification to be an appropriate responsibility for their work and, above all, the content of their work. I believe that school directors deserve to be placed in the 14th grade. This, of course, is not in the power of the Chamber of Deputies, it is purely a matter of executives, but it would require roughly CZK 250 million to be paid, including accessories. I believe that if the House had found the will to increase the salary of the Ministry of Education chapter in the area of regional education, then the executive would certainly have granted this request and reassigned the school heads from 13th to 14th grade. So many, then, two of my amendments. Excuse my forgetfulness, I'm not quite sure if I named the registration number in the system on the first one, which is why I'm going to repeat it. I am reporting for Amendment 3829 on the National Cyber and Information Security Office and 3830 on the Chapter of the Ministry of Education. In both cases, I'm billating against the chapter of the State Debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u17	I thank the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Miroslav Kalousek. Pavel Kováčik will now perform the chair of the club KSČM and will prepare the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek with priority rights. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to draw your attention to the two proposals that I intend to introduce you to. The first is the amendment, which is deposited under House document number 3729. It is an amendment to the House's 605, state budget 2020, water management, and it is a proposal that carries out a transfer in Chapter 329, respectively. increase of the water management support indicator by 300 million. CZK 129 300 support for construction and technical evaluation of water supply and sewerage infrastructure. You have the motion in writing under the House document. A brief statement of reasons. As you know, one of the main program points of the KSČM is that essential strategic resources belong in the Czech hands, whether state or municipal. And here this proposal is intended to create space for municipalities so that they can get subsidies to buy out the shares of water companies if they need it. I presume that any unused part remains in the chapter for other purposes of water management, even in the context that water retention in the landscape, by addressing the impacts of climate change that no one seems to doubt anymore, is also a priority of the KSČM. And here I am going to ask you to support my second proposal, and this is the proposal for an accompanying resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the State Budget Act 2020 where I propose: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to further strengthen the budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture during 2020 in order to finance measures implemented in the context of climate change. - It is both the water retention in the landscape and the impacts of climate change, the treatment of excessive drought and the related issues, which have not only emerged in the last half of the years, but which will still come, because some of the impacts, e.g. barking calamity, they have their dynamics of development, and what was last year and this year may still be in the number of costs in the next and next year. And there is a need to create opportunities for forest owners not only to recover the damage, but also to start work as quickly as possible to rebuild the forest, also to start work on certain preventive measures as quickly as possible, and this accompanying resolution is intended to create a basic condition for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u19	Thank you. And now with priority rights, so far the last priority right, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u20	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to give you information that I think is important for the House to have in its decision-making. And I hope you believe me. I want to respond to Mrs Černochová's speech. Her performance at one point involved this - to the detriment of our contribution to UNESCO. And it was justified by the fact that there is supposedly a fundamental politicalization of the work of UNESCO. I'd like to give you information that I think is important for you to have. I have visited UNESCO recently, I have dealt with Principal Roessler, I have visited the UNESCO General Conference, and I would like to say here, and I am saying this with absolute clarity that any politicisation of UNESCO's activities does not exist at this time. It's basically stopped. At the moment, there is no politicalization at UNESCO. I would like to tell you that the Czech Republic is specially engaged in a group, a working group which is currently working to consistently depoliticise the work of this organisation, so that all opinions and debates are conducted in a truly professional manner. And the fact that this is going well is not because we are doing so well and that we alone would have such results. It is a general effort and, of course, supported by the fact that by the end of the year it will be true that Israel and the United States have stepped out of membership in UNESCO, which may seem like a very important thing to you, but I would like to explain a little bit. Since 2011, the United States has not paid its contribution, so they have grown quite significantly in debt over the past eight years, and bad languages claim that the United States has also stepped out of membership in UNESCO to address the issue of relatively large-scale debt that they have against UNESCO at the moment. At the same time, I'd like to tell you that the United States has come out of UNESCO several times and has always come back to know this history. And you should also know that the fact that Israel and the United States have resigned from membership means only that they do not participate in the work of the General Conference and cannot be elected to the Executive Board, but otherwise, of course, remain in all the conventions they have concluded. They can even claim other monuments, inheritances. That means they're advancing, you know, in all those conventions, they're just not participating in the General Conference and they can't be elected to the Executive Board. So you don't think they stopped working at UNESCO. They work there, they're not formally members. And it is important to say that all the materials relating to monuments in Palestine and Israel are going through UNESCO perfectly smoothly at the moment, judged only professionally, and all the political debates have ended. You just have to trust me. At this point, it is not true that the work of UNESCO is politicized. Thanks to this new situation, the political resolution has been removed, and today you will not find them there, and I even think and I can argue that what is being discussed today in the matter of the monuments of Palestine and Israel is being dealt with correctly, not burdened by political debates. That's the current situation. And I repeat with all responsibilities that at this point, the problem that we have dealt with here many times does not exist in UNESCO.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u21	I will now ask for a speech - we have a standard order here in the general debate, so Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský and Mr Dominik Feri will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u22	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me introduce you briefly to my four amendments to the State budget 2020 and, at the same time, I formally submit to them. These are House documents under the numbers 3862, 3863, 3864 and 3865. I submit the first amendment together with my dear colleague Pavla Golasowská and it concerns the financing of social services. The problems with the financing of social services already with the existing Evergreen Chamber of Deputies, and we all remember well the hours and hours that we spent here last year and last year, but this year it was particularly nutritious when we discussed the financing of social services and also how it is necessary to proceed to the future to finance social services with so much announced and still not adopted here or, respectively, the unsubstantiated draft amendment to the Social Services Act. We believe that as the demographic curve develops, but as the costs in social services also develop, which are due, on the one hand, to a shortage of workers and also to an increasing average wage, but also to factors that are not influential, and this is an increasing price for food, services, energy, that the amount that is allocated for next year's social services again makes assumptions, and I think the legitimate assumption that we will have a problem with financing social services. Of course, this cannot only be put on conjecture. This has long been calculated by organisations dealing with this, especially the Association of Providers in Social Services, and at this point it is calculated that CZK 1.5 billion is actually missing in the draft budget for 2020. That is why we have prepared several variations of the amendments that give the opportunity to finance this necessary amount, and I would appeal very much to the Chamber of Deputies to take these proposals seriously. Given that I have information at the moment, and the Minister has already confirmed this in the media that he will support the amendment recommended by the Committee on Budgets to increase the current proposal by CZK 600 million, so we have also deprived the option of further funding by CZK 900 million, so that it will increase by CZK 1.5 billion in total. The KDU-ČSL club therefore proposes several variants. For one thing, by the entire amount of 1.5 billion, or alternatively, provided that the draft budget committee is approved, in this case, we would like to finance another CZK 900 million to the 600 million. So much for the first amendment to finance social services. The other three amendments are already in the field of health. The first supports the amount of 30 million palliative and hospice care, because the draft state budget for the Ministry of Health chapter despite some unused funds from the years past in our opinion does not reflect the needs of a very dynamically developing segment of palliative and hospice care, and we believe that it is necessary to finance 30 million crowns for both support of stone hospices and mobile hospice care and actually to restore materially technical foundations of hospice and palliative care. At the same time, we believe that this is not such an excessive sum that we would not be able to find in the budget, and I think that the proposed funding is real. The third amendment reflects, from our point of view, KDU-ČSL, but also from experts' point of view, catastrophic underfinancing of investments in faculty hospitals and other directly managed organizations of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health itself admits this issue in the chapter of the draft state budget for 2020. The government, headed by the Prime Minister, admits - and this is not a policy right now - that we lack CZK 73 billion in the short term to finance the reconstruction of the material-technical background of faculty hospitals and other directly managed organizations. We can therefore say professionally top workplaces, but unlike regional hospitals, which have been financed in the long term both by regional budgets and European funds, and unfortunately in those faculty hospitals, this background does not correspond to the top-level care provided there. For these reasons, we propose strengthening the subsidy title for strategic investment and other investments in directly managed organizations by CZK 500 million, i.e. by CZK half a billion. [[15.20 hours]] The fourth, i.e. the last of the proposals I present to you today, addresses one unpleasant issue concerning already in 2017 approved grant for completion and reconstruction of the Institute of Hand Surgery and Plastic Surgery in Vysoké nad Jizerou. I'm just reminding you, because of course not all of you need to know, it is a very specialized centre, basically unique within the Czech Republic. And this institution, which is charged with experts and deals with really high-end transplantation plastic surgery and other branches of hand surgery, has long struggled with inadequate spaces and material-technical security. For the state budget in 2017, a subsidy of CZK 60 million was approved for this institute. The Institute of Hand Surgery and its founder, the town of Vysoké nad Jizerou, prepared a grant title, prepared all the necessary requirements. Unfortunately, at the beginning of 2018 The Ministry of Health canceled this subsidy for not quite clear reasons. Following certain pressure from the public, but also after the visit of the Minister in Vysoké nad Jizerou, the grant title was renewed, but there was a delay of one year, which in practice meant one thing: As we are experiencing a construction boom, the amount that the correct provider or founder competed with exceeded the estimated price by several tens of millions of crowns. The Institute was forced to cancel the contract and is facing a very difficult situation as to how to proceed with this project. Really threatens not to be fulfilled. Therefore, I would like to propose and very much ask you to support the financing of CZK 30 million for the grant already approved, so that the project can be implemented as soon as possible. And let me just remind you that both the city of Vysoké nad Jizerou and the provider themselves did not remain passive in the meantime. From their financial resources, they financed the reconstruction of operating rooms, parking lots and some other things. At this point, however, they no longer have the resources to finance the increased price from their own resources. Therefore, I appeal to you and please consider approving this extra 30 million grant at the third reading when voting. In my opinion, this is the support of a very unique workplace that takes care of patients across the Czech Republic. And I think patients really need this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u23	So now, with the factual remark of Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u24	Thank you. I wish the Minister of Culture had left, but I wanted to respond to him. I would like to set the record straight on his announcement that they spoke some years ago. No, no, no, no. The United States and Israel came forward on January 1st of this year. The contributions probably stopped paying earlier, but that step took place until January 1st of this year. I am not questioning what the Minister has said here, I am glad because, as a result, the Minister has admitted for the first time here that UNESCO has been politicised and it is. After all, I'm saying it here all the time when they're adopting one resolution after another. Just so you know, those resolutions since 2009, the anti-Israeli resolutions, they've been a total of 71. Do you know when we will know and trust Mr. Zaorálek that the words that have been spoken here mean anything? When UNESCO repeals these resolutions. Then, yes, we can say, indeed there has been a change, UNESCO ceases to be a political organization, which fundamentally speaks against Israel in favour of Palestine. So if that happens, I'd love to, but this step B hasn't happened yet. So it doesn't change the fact that I have read here the amendment I stand for, and I am asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u25	So I will now ask Mr Dominik Feri to speak, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will prepare himself. I'll read one apology. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes between 15.15 and 16 for reasons of work. So Mr. Feri gets the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me briefly to justify my amendments to the draft law on the State Budget. Our general position has already been justified by the President of Kalousek, but I have decided to discuss one more part of the matter that concerns me as a young person because my friends are students and are covered by such a benefit in the form of student discounts. But by far not all students appreciate the discounts because they are very well aware that the money from the state budget spent on mere consumption is simply missing somewhere and could be used better somewhere. And yet I feel that we should invest the money rather than consume it, which is such a very nice euphemism for it simply to eat through. And so I have also followed up on the preparation of the various amendments, i.e. where we could use the money elsewhere, and I presented nine amendments. If I were to introduce them, at the end, I would dictate the number of the House document, so this is a billion, which is intended for doctoral scholarships. It is further after half a billion to the GAČR and TAČR, further it is 2 billion to go to prevent the drainage of the landscape and restore natural watercourses, 10 million. to cover the costs incurred in strengthening the supervision of the insolvency sections of regional courts, this is something that we are dealing with repeatedly here, we have adopted an insolvency amendment, but we have not given the regional courts the money to accept for example. Senior magistrates - not an insolvency judge, but those senior magistrates and the staff should definitely accept them. Yesterday at the Senate conference, Madam Secretary - she's not here - said she's going to see Dr. Schillerová next year and she's going to try to negotiate some extra money too. I believe he'll live up to that commitment. [[He's on the outside of the finance secretary's mike.]] Madam Secretary of Justice. This means, I hope, that she will succeed as well as other members of the government, to negotiate some extra money with her colleague, so 10 miles. to insolvency sections. Next, 5 miles. at the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, 10 million. Klokánek, a billion from the agrifood complex also to prevent landscape drainage or to fight landscape drainage, 3 billion. then to regional education and 3 million. on another proposal that we have made to the Senate, namely the Government's proposal for a law on real estate intermediation. In fact, we have ordered the trade authorities, namely the Republic Trade Office and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, so that we can in some way really live up to what we wanted to do in order to properly exercise the administrative supervision. And then we wouldn't be imposing any obligation on those authorities that we wouldn't give them any money for, which I wouldn't consider a fair solution. I therefore sign up for House documents No. 3630, 3631, 3632, 3633, 3634, 3635, 3636, 3637, 3638. And then I have one more wish song. My colleague František Vácha came into the hall, looked at the board, where there are 42 entries, and then he said something this angry and asked me to sign up for his House document. So I'm applying to House document 3808. It's 10 miles. to the seats, so that their work is properly evaluated. He's putting it a little bit like evergreen, so for him. 3630 to 3638 and 3808. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u27	So I will now ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to speak and prepare Mrs Jana Krutáková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Allow me to introduce you to the amendment to the state budget, in amendments that would only concern Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, by increasing the amount of the Czech Police expenditure by 120 million in a specific indicator. CZK, in subgrouping item 513. In the same chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, a specific indicator of expenditure to ensure the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational components of the State would be reduced by 100 million. CZK, in subgrouping item 516 purchase of services in connection with expenditure on research and development. In the same chapter, in the same chapter, expenditures, which means ensuring the performance of the Ministry of Interior's tasks and other organisational items of the state, are reduced by another 20 million. in subgrouping item 522, and these are non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organisations. All changes shall be reflected in the relevant indicators of Annex No. 4 to this law. Now, let me give you a brief introduction to how we'd do 120 miles. invested in the Police of the Czech Republic. It would be in two areas, and that is the area of ammo to shorten it, and here we would increase the amount of money by 90 miles. Crowns. Why ammo? I would like to inform you that thanks to previous budgetary restrictions, especially at the beginning of this decade, an ammo deposit was gradually reduced at the Police of the Czech Republic, which always ensured coverage of unpredictable increased training needs and also served as an insurance policy in the event of an extension of delivery times under public contracts. The current volume of training ammo is about 12 miles. pieces per year and this does not allow for the creation of a basic necessary stock. Thus, the ammunition is released and distributed to individual units of the Police of the Czech Republic practically immediately after the admission to the warehouse. The aim of the increase of funds for this area is to create an ammo backup because the lack of adequate ammo backup in the warehouse of uniformly acquired assets does not allow efficient and smooth supply of services to the Police of the Czech Republic. So 90 miles. to buy ammo. The remaining 30 miles. would be invested in the field of ballistic protection, ballistic safeguards. I'd like you to know that under Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of security forces members, the employer is obliged to ensure the safe performance of police services, or if you want all members of security forces, but in this case police officers, and one of the areas of security and health protection of police officers are protective equipment against missiles, shards and stab wounds. By order of Police President 172 of 30. 6. 2017 systematic protective equipment was created by the Police of the Czech Republic against gunshot and stab wounds and shrapnel. This systematicisation is continuously implemented. It is currently being filled with 60 percent. If you recall, last year we succeeded here with a similar proposal. We have increased the resources for ballistic protection of members by 30 miles as well. Crowns. But according to the report provided by the Home Office, only 50 miles were spent on ballistics this year. koruna, because some competitions fail to reach a successful end. I'm sure you'll give me credit for the fact that a number of recent events have shown that attacks on police officers can come unexpectedly at any time and in situations where this cannot be predicted. Ballistic protection is therefore the primary means of protecting every police officer's life and health. I would like to say why I draw money from these two items to purchase services in connection with research, development and innovation expenditure. For 2020, 846 million are allocated in this subfolder. Kron - 846 miles. Crowns. Last year it was 200 miles. Knights less. As regards non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organisations, I would like to say here that, for the time I have been reporting the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, that is, for the last few years, under this heading, 522 has always been an amount of 40 million. Crowns. It has been since 2018, 2019, 2017 - and now there has been an increase to 70 mil. Crowns. So from this subfolder I took the liberty of proposing to remove 20 million, which would serve the two basic needs of the Police of the Czech Republic, that is, buying ammunition and buying ballistic protection for members of the security forces. Thank you for any support and attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u29	I'll read two apologies. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes, from 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting of the House for work reasons. And Mr. Jiří Bláha apologizes, between 16 and midnight for work reasons. You see, you already know information we don't know, so we might be here for a long time. I therefore now call for the presentation of Mrs Jana Krutáková. Mr Blaha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to introduce you and, at the same time, to apply to the amendment held in the Houses of the Press 605 as House document 3827. I propose in this amendment to increase the expenditure of Chapter 398 General treasury management in a specific indicator other expenditure under the land treatment item of 300 million. At the same time, I propose to obtain this amount by reducing the expenditure of Chapter 396 of the State Debt in the State Debt Administration indicator and in Chapter 398 of the General Administration in social expenditure indicators, other expenditure, contributions to the EU budget, building savings, compensation to victims of crime, account fees and payments to international financial institutions. Land treatment solves complex water and wind erosion in the landscape, flood control measures. Water management, in particular in the area of reducing the adverse effects of drought and flooding, will address the drainage conditions in the landscape, the road network, the accessibility of land and the accessibility of the landscape, the territorial system of ecological stability and the planting of greenery. The General Treasury has been allocated the same amount of funds of 700 million in the long term for land adjustments. The crowns we want to raise. The total amount of appropriations in the State budget earmarked for land adjustments is around 2 billion. CZK and the projects that are ready for implementation are almost 2.6 billion. Crowns. In the case of land treatment, it is therefore an element that contributes to environmental protection and improvement, responds to social and economic development and to climate development in our country. I am therefore once again applying to House document 3827 and I would like to ask for your support at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u31	I will now give the room to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, because he just forgot to sign up technically for his amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry. I hereby subscribe to my amendment, which is deposited as House document 3767. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u33	Mr Stanislav Blaha will now appear and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u34	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, we are well, we are best in history, our country is ahead of ourselves, and it is still going up. Precisely such claims are becoming more and more common from the mouth of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Of course, we can discuss exactly what they mean and which one of us agrees or disagrees with the Prime Minister's words. But one thing is indisputable. The economy is doing well, we barely know unemployment, and the state budget has record revenue and record total volume. You might expect a meaningful investment in such a situation, and if it is a meaningful investment, you might even accept that some of these revenues - and now with permission and with an apology - are going to eat senselessly. But what we are not going to accept is that the state led by the ANO movement and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, unfortunately, at the expense of all of us, is merely eating senselessly at the expense of all of this world's extremely favourable period. And it eats away not only our present, but also our future and, above all, the future of our children. [[15.40 hours]] You all know that I've been monitoring the transport department in the long run. And right here is what I'm talking about, seeing the most. Right here, Andrej Babiš and Vladimír Kremlík, you are clearly holding back the further development of our country. This is where you can see the most how, by eating senselessly elsewhere, money is missing for key infrastructure projects, new motorways and railways. You have penally reduced the State Fund's budget of transport infrastructure - to 86 percent of this year's budget, from over 101 billion in the next year. 87 billion. You have penally reduced the budget of the Road and Motorway Directorate and Railway Infrastructure Administration by almost half. In the first case from 46 to less than 25 billion, in the second case from more than 43 to 26 billion. Kč. You're penalizing the State Fund's budget of transport infrastructure when you've created a joint account of 29 billion. Both key state organisations are to draw from this, in a situation where it is not clear what rules this drawdown will be governed by and which of the organisations will actually achieve for this money. There's no way to plan or build like this. Last April, you boasted with a 100-billion-dollar memorandum on loans from the European Investment Bank for the development of the domestic road and rail network. This year you've exhausted - and now all of you listen well - zero! Zero. You're planning a billion dollars next year. And in the same way, you took money and culture, specifically a program to support professional theatres, symphony orchestras and choirs. There are 30 miles missing next year without any justification. CZK, even though the lack of money has been brought to the attention of both the professional public and the members of the programme board on a long and regular basis. Andrej Babiš, Vladimír Kremlík, the government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement, my amendments are a real effort and a way to save this reprehensible dilettante. The situation is serious and shows how much you ignore the warnings of experts, managers in transport and construction, journalists and, of course, us in opposition. Not only in the Department of Transport is hopeless because of your actions. I therefore ask you to conclude by supporting my amendments and also to consider your words and stop lying about developing our country, because at least that is not true in the transport department. I now want to apply to the amendments, namely the alternative amendment under the numbers 3759 and 3760, which strengthens the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure by CZK 4,400,921,000, respectively. 2 890 058 638 CZK; the alternative amendment under the numbers 3763 and 3764, which also strengthen the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, namely by CZK 5,500,000, respectively. CZK 4,000 500,000; then to the amendment under number 3896, which also strengthens the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, namely by CZK 1,840,000. As I have already said, I am also interested in strengthening Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture - live art in the programme of state support for professional theatres and state professional symphony and singing choirs, namely variant amendment under numbers 3897 and 3898. In one case it is a 30-mile increase, in the other it is a 50-mile increase. Kč. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u35	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Olga Richterová to speak and Mr Václav Votava will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u36	Hello, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues present. I would like to talk about something that is on my mind quite regularly, and at the same time I would like to associate it with the figures that are underlying the two amendments that I am proposing. The point is, for a lot of programs, for a lot of things that go towards a meaningful coherent society in some way, we can verify whether they work and, at the same time, we're able to find out, we just often don't do what doesn't work, where some systems only lead us to replicate enchanted circles. Typically, it's been discussed over and over again how hard it is for young people who have gone through children's homes to get stuck in life. There's a hole in the abandonment of the institution and in the ability of a person to handle normal functioning. Then, on the contrary, there's a huge share of this experience, with this tough start in life, like prisons or homeless people. To these numbers, it takes 70 percent of people with this experience in those prisons, I want to follow up on something that's gotten awfully worse for us lately, and then I'm going to explain how these allocated funds could handle it through the amendments. Early departures from schools, especially in the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region, are starting to get very bad, but also elsewhere. Early school leaving, that means both an unfinished primary education, and maybe just an early first year of some high school. It concerns thousands of young people, just 15 to 20 percent in Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region. Those are thousands of young people. And now the connection. It turns out that the academic achievements are extremely close, how the young person will be able to continue his entire life in society, are very closely linked to their family's social problems. It is, of course, a housing emergency, quality of living, management of housing, and then execution. I would also like to quote an analysis made by the public media, radio or radio. it was posted on iRadio. There is just a combination of how the absences in schools and then the premature termination of schooling with those social aspects, especially housing. It turns out that a lot of communities in our country are not very keen about this, because it is a unique problem for them. It is about 90 municipalities from 206 such larger municipalities with extended scope. But we have 33 cities, 33 ORPs, where there are problems, I'd say, huge. As for the increase, in the Ústí Region in 2013, the proportion of young people who had left education early was only 9 per cent; in 2017, four years later, 15 per cent. If we don't act, it'll only get worse. And once again, there's the connection to housing distress, housing. The roughly 20,000 children from around 10,000 families who grow up in very unstable housing conditions, then typically has a problem with the completion of the school. And part of these families is about losing their housing, where it would help to get some other housing through bail, where the family simply doesn't have the $15,000 to $20,000 saved for the apartment. [[15.50 hours]] I am absolutely not saying that it can help everyone, but it is an instrument, and it has been calculated by the Agency for Social Inclusion, so the government department, in cooperation with the employment authorities, that 80 percent of the people, families, households who received such an extraordinary benefit, had extraordinary immediate assistance for the very certainty of making bail on the apartment, so 80 percent of these families lived in the apartment after a year. It's a government data number. And I was so surprised when it turns out that it's the possibility of this 80-percent financial success deposit, 15 to 20 grand per family, so we're not taking advantage of a very low amount. That we do not support this systemically as a state and that the budget wants to humiliate this amount, this line. So I'm applying to Amendment 3870, which is about to increase by 50 million the possibility of bailing out the apartment. This is a really low amount, given that it can help several thousands of families, most of which, of course, have a few thousand saved, so it can help up to five thousand families into standard housing. I want to show you how effective that help can be when it's fast. That's housing bail, and it's not a marginal problem. Indeed, there are many and many thousands of people living in this country, for whom it is not a problem to pay regular rent, but it is a problem for them because of the two or three rents that need to be paid in advance, to get into the housing. That's one group. And then, of course, there are situations where, without any accompanying, many people are unable to handle housing. That, of course, is what they do, and they work with it everywhere in the world. And here I am applying to Amendment 3871, which concerns social work, because that is what it is called - I would call it accompanying. The point is, the government has announced a construction program. He's counting mine. with the construction of social housing, but they can't work in many cases just without accompanying it, without social work. And since the amount of CZK 400 million for the entire social work in the municipalities has already been criticised in the past, it has been too low, so I suggest moving another CZK 200 million so that the municipalities have the social work stablely covered and that it is really credible for them that, as a state, we will support the return of people to society through this accompanying. Again, it's something that in the finals, when we figure out that it has an impact on what I mentioned, on the success of children in schools, on the fact that, despite ensuring the basic, which is housing, it is so possible to want to work in that superstructure, so it can be extremely effectively invested money. This is what I am referring to Amendments 3870, 3871, and I wish that since we have calculated the data that, in 80 percent of the cases after a year, people in that apartment that they have been bailed into continue to live in order to apply such effective instruments, which mean investment in several tens of millions of crowns, to do this policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u37	I will now ask Mr Václav Votava to speak and Mr Miroslav Grebeníček will prepare himself. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, members of the Government, I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is in the system under number 3795, which is an amendment that we are submitting together with Mrs Kateřina Valachová. The amendment is: it is proposed to increase expenditure in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in a specific indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations by an amount of 3 billion. Crowns. The funds mentioned are proposed to reduce the expenditure in Chapter 396 of the State debt in a specific indicator of government debt management. Shortly to the justification, maybe a little bit of history. The Government of the Czech Republic adopted its programme statement of 27. 6. 2018 commitment to increase teacher salaries by 2021 to a minimum of 150 per cent of their average level of 2017. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports specified this commitment with a view to increasing teacher salaries by 15 per cent each year between 2018 and 2020, plus a residual increase in 2021, in order to achieve a set average level of teacher salaries, i.e. 45 thousand. Crowns. When discussing the first draft budget, the tripartite team, the team was for education, human resources, on 25. 6. 2019 representatives of the social partners agreed to a lower, i.e. a 10% increase in salaries in 2020, but provided that the salary level of other employees in the salary sector does not increase by more than 2 to 3 per cent expected next year. However, since, during the preparation and approval of the budget by the Government, there has been an increase of about an additional 5 per cent, it is necessary, in order to maintain real growth in the salary of teachers, that additional funds be transferred to the draft budget of the Chapter of Education, as we propose, to a minimum of 3 billion. CZK to meet commitments under the Government's programming declaration. Thus, although initially a 15% increase in salaries for 2020 was promised to teachers, the next year's budget is expected to increase the salaries of pedagogical workers by only 10 percent. This would result in an enormous budget entitlement at this rate to meet the government's commitment in 2021 and a more significant amount of funding would be needed in the draft budget for 2021. The proposed increase in regional education resources by 3 billion. CZK intended for teacher salaries would mean an increase in the salaries of pedagogical workers by about 3% more than the original intention of 10 %, which would bring the government closer to fulfilling the promise of its programming declaration in the following years. We therefore propose to obtain the necessary funds by reducing the budget of the specific indicator of Chapter 389 of the State debt, which is a government debt service. On this point, I would like to point out briefly that, as regards the cost of government debt management, the Czech Republic can be assumed to be macroeconomically stable in 2020. The share of government debt in GDP also shows a declining trend. This chapter, in the framework of the implementation of the State budget, ends each year with a multi-billion-dollar default compared to the original plan. For example, in 2018, the budget of this chapter was approved before the amendments were made to 44.8 billion. koruna, after changes 41.9 billion. The koruna and reality ended by 1.2 billion. lower. Moreover, in 2019 the largest debt in history was repaid, namely 85 billion. CZK and, even after the budget change, the proposed amount is still higher than the actual implementation for the years 2016 to 2018. It is therefore proposed to reduce the amount of this indicator in 2020 to the approximate actual amount of previous closed years. [[16.00 hours]] It is therefore proposed to move the necessary amount of 3 billion from part of the increase in budget revenue. CZK, as I have already said, in favour of the budget chapters of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and using them to increase the real salaries of teachers and teachers in 2020. In particular, an increase is expected to be made to the excess component of salaries, class, specialization and personal allowances, which is minimized in the current draft budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, and to match the statutory claims of teachers and teachers arising from the Labour Code. We are therefore also proposing an amendment on the basis of the call by employers and trade unions, and the aim is to find the necessary solution to the increase in the salaries of teachers, teachers, in line with the government's programming declarations and budgetary possibilities of the state. Of course, I would very much like you to support this amendment at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u39	I will now request Mr Grebeníček's speech and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in general, I would like to say that I consider the draft law on the state budget, which the government, or the government, has presented, to be quite rational and appropriate under the current conditions in terms of economic development and expected revenues in 2020. I also submit that the amendment to the 2020 Act on the State Budget, House document 3758, which I submit and to which I am reporting, does not go against the concept of a government proposal and does not mean a mechanical partial increase in funds for the budget chapter of the Academy of Sciences at the cost of missing funds in another chapter. The essence of my amendment is to increase the resources of the chapter of the Academy of Sciences to institutional support of the Institute of Global Change Research, whose institutional support is now very low, from undrawn and cumulative claims from unused expenditure in the chapter of the Technology Agency. This is the means for adequate institutional support for research and resolution of extremely serious problems that the Republic must face today and especially in the future in the context of climate change and adverse trends in soil quality deterioration and the threat to water resources and water supply. Therefore, I propose: 1. Increase in the budget of expenditure of Chapter 361 - Czech Academy of Sciences on the specific indicator "Infrastructuring research" and on cross-cutting indicators "Expenditure for research, development and innovation in total including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes" in this "total state budget" in this "institutional support total" by 50 million. CZK for 2020 with the determination of this amount to increase the resources for institutional support for the Institute of Research of Global Change of the Czech Academy of Sciences, a public research institution. 2. Reduction of expenditure in Chapter 377 - Technological Agency of the Czech Republic - on the specific indicator "doting to other entities" and on cross-cutting indicators "expenditure to research, development and innovation in total including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes," in which "total state budget" and "total dedicated support" by 50 million. CZK and "purpose support for applied research, development and innovation programmes'. A brief statement of reasons. At present, research on major climate change, weather, nature and the environment in Central Europe, the territory of the Czech Republic and neighbouring countries is particularly important in relation to overall climate change and adverse trends in development, in particular the effects of global warming, the lack of precipitation and changes in weather development, the threat of water resources and the drying and deterioration of soil quality. It is desirable and urgent to ensure and strengthen research in this area and to guarantee certain stability of the research base. The Institute of Research for Global Change of the Academy of Sciences, which deals with research in this field, has so far covered most of the funding from grants. Compared to most research institutions established by the Academy of Sciences, which according to the standard are very substantially financed by the institutional support funds of Chapter 361 - Czech Academy of Sciences, this institute, for example, received from the Academy of Sciences as the founder of normal, i.e. non-investment means of institutional support of CZK 47 358 000, which amounted to only 19.9 percent of the institution's revenues. A total of 80.1 percent of the institution's revenue was taken outside the fund of the founder. In view of the fact that it is an institution with great scientific performance and reach, with extremely important outputs due to the current and future problems of the Czech Republic in this area, it is appropriate and desirable to increase the percentage of institutional support of the Institute in order to bring it closer to the standard. So far, the Institute has obtained about 15 percent of funding in the form of basic funding, i.e. from institutional funds from the budget of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. The rest, 85 percent, was obtained in the form of individual grants, including international projects. However, the recognised standard for similar workplaces is 70:30. For 2020, this is a year-on-year increase in expenditure for the budget chapter of the Academy of Sciences by 50 million. Crowns. This increase should then be maintained in the achieved percentage of institutional support for the following years. Reduction of special-purpose support for research, development and innovation in Chapter 377 - Technology Agency of the Czech Republic is proposed due to the lack of accumulated claims from unused expenditure on this indicator. The reduction in the special-purpose support of that Chapter will in no way jeopardise the financing of the implementation of the Agency's programmes and projects. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and your possible support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u41	Thank you. Good evening. Before I invite another speaker, there are note cards. We are apologized to Mrs Válková between 16 and 17 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Veselý from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Jiránek from 25. 11 to 29. 11. due to foreign travel. I would now like to go into an open debate with Mrs Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Dear Government, allow me, during the debate, to sign up for a joint amendment with Václav Votava, as mentioned here, number 3795. Since I spoke at first reading to the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and to the way in which the Ministry of Finance approaches the budget structure, and I appreciated the Minister of Finance present in terms of her approach, I will not repeat this, but I am focusing on why I supported and signed up for this amendment. Investment in education is an investment that does not only involve ensuring the education of children of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools. Not only this government, but also previous governments, but also, for example, a partnership agreement for funding of 600 billion. the European funds for this programming period see education as a strategic issue, which is directly linked to the competitiveness of our country over the next decades. As regards the behaviour of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports budget and how much is really coming out of the planned - as I have already mentioned, well planned - the finances of the Ministry of Finance and the structure of the Ministry of Education budget really affect many factors. As rapporteur for the last few, if I am not mistaken for the three state accounts of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, I can say responsibly that according to the final account, and therefore the real drawing, it always turns out that the only certainty of teachers and teachers is what they get in the salary rate. It shows the final accounts quite clearly. There has been a slight improvement in the last year, but I note that over the course of the year, more funds than the planned 10 percent tariff, 5% above the tariff, went into the school chapter. Why do I mention that? For this reason, we also need to look at the way in which we lay down the ratio of the salary tariff and the excess salary components, because we know, and we know this repeatedly, that it is only the salary tariff with certainty with regard to the decentralised education system that teachers and teachers will actually receive. The second thing I would like to point out is the question of the above-mentioned components. It may seem a bit like a spell, an over-the-counter component, because it is not just remuneration or personal surcharges, but it is the means that we are required to provide in the budget for school directors to pay out class fees, specialization supplements that are already entitled. As a lawyer, I would like to point out that we already have a 15-year case-law of the Supreme Court, which also tells us that in the case of personal allowances granted to employees, this is also a claim item, and this should therefore be guaranteed in volume to school directors and school directors, as well as to teachers and teachers. If I am talking about above-the-tarifs, I must therefore mention why I have applied to the amendment and will try to persuade my colleagues and colleagues to increase the school's budget. This is not only a minimum commitment by the government in terms of 150 per cent of the salaries and salaries of both teachers and non-teaching staff in 2017, because it is a minimum commitment, but it is also another part of the programming declaration in education. In particular, they count on two things - the professional support of teachers and teachers, as well as the reduction of the administrative burden on school directors. These aren't just floscule, they're not just words, they're things that can be very precise from the point of view of the budget and the demands of teachers and teachers. Classical extras and specialization extras. You know that this House has been discussing class fees for two good years. I would also like to remind you that the class fees and their increases were part of the amendment of the Education Worker Act, which first passed the constitutional majority in the previous House, so that subsequently, three months before the elections, the Senate would fall because the Senate wanted to be even more generous than the House and it turned out that teachers did not only then, but so far have nothing in the case of class allowances. That means not just a sparrow in the hand, and certainly not a pigeon on the roof. Why are class fees important, and why is it wrong that we still have no funds for them, although the government's programming declaration assumes that? It's because the class fees are definitely not for the rich. For your information, the current situation is plus minus 500 CZK gross across the Republic. I quote, there are differences between high school and primary school, but this is average. The reality is that more than ten and perhaps fifteen years of government regulations expect a higher increase of up to CZK 2 000, school directors and school directors, of course, have never received funds from any government. Therefore, class fees are not for the rich. We all know what classmates are doing, and I think that if we see TV reports today and every day, articles in the newspapers, how we increase, for example, bullying in class teams, how it scares us all, how it conspires us all, how we are all getting ahead of ourselves in strong statements, how we want to help terribly, so we should, above all, help by supporting class teachers so that they not only have money for their grades and hard work, but also, for example, to be able to hold more class hours, take care of the climate in class, school, collectives, classroom relationships. It is also related to the time of teachers, the real time of teachers and, of course, the time of teachers and teachers paid to communicate with parents. We also like to talk about how teachers and teachers are to communicate with parents and how parents want more and more communication with teachers and teachers and communication about the educational ways of their children. This too is to be appreciated and appreciated. So much for the class fees. I would just like to remind you from the point of view of my position that I am consistent, and the Minister of Finance can certainly confirm that. Last year, I unsuccessfully advocated an amendment to increase class allowances so that we could at least ensure their total increase to CZK 1,000 so that school directors and school directors would have these opportunities. Again, it's nothing about getting rich, it's a system qualitative thing in terms of the quality of child education. That's when the amendment failed. If you would read the screen of all those involved, including the Ministry of Education, it was promised that we would see it next year, in 2020. So we didn't get it. When it comes to specialization supplements, it's a mysterious word again. What do you imagine under it? Specialization allowances are once again linked to professional support for teachers. We often talk about school prevention methods, we are terrified by reports about how children are addicted to alcohol, how they are addicted to drugs, how they need help, what social backgrounds they have, how their family environment is reflected in their quality of education. From teachers and teachers, we'd expect God knows what to do for family, for parents. We have 1,500 support professions, but the reality is that these professions are unsuccessfully asking for a reduction of direct pedagogical activity so that they have room for communication with children, pupils and students, and they are not getting that, even in the case of specialisation supplements, although the professional support of teachers is in the government's programming declaration, we do not have it covered either in the budget 2020 or in the perspective 2021. [[16.20 hours]] If anyone would find it smiling, I just want to say that the House is currently discussing the long-term intention of developing education and education systems. These objectives, which I am talking about, are not only part of the government's programme, but also part of the long-term plan approved by the government in July, and although there are the 2020 and 2021 objectives, these things are again not reflected financially in the current budget or outlook. With regard to budgetary behaviour - and if I have talked about the fact that only pay rates will eventually reach, then I also have to comment on the fact that, of course, there are requirements for teachers which result from the Labour Code and which relate, for example, to sickness. You know this House on July 1 restored sick leave from the first day of the disease. And you know that, for example, the question of, say, fitness and health of nurses, doctors, but also teachers and teachers not to pass on diseases, because only the way they work and the environment in which they do their work, it is not appropriate for these people to pass on to children, pupils or students in the sky. Well, how it turned out. The Chapter of Education is specific in that these requirements - for example, when a teacher returns from maternity leave or from parental leave, or someone gets sick, so now even better paid from the first day of the disease, and it is, of course, right - so these things are paid by the headmasters and school directors from the so-called ONIVs. It's a special part of the budget. They don't have the resources. So far, until the changes in regional education funding, it has been so that, of course, directors and directors have helped each other in a variety of ways, with various movements, but they have been able to meet these requirements. I note that resolving the increase in ONIVs and what the directors and directors will pay for sick leave, maternity leave, as well as, if I am not mistaken, representation from 1 January 2020 was one of the reasons why the reform of regional education funding has been postponed for a year. The reality of the budget 2020 is that ONIVY does not increase by a crown, and we were informed by the Minister of Education before the budget was approved by the Education Committee that in terms of the renewal of sickness, the first three days of the disease, are missing from the budget of CZK 300 million. I note that this information has been received by all coalition and opposition Members in writing. Therefore, it is also for this objective, which means that teachers and teachers meet these requirements, that the amendment is aimed at. The third thing I would like to mention and what ambition should be dealt with by the amendment, of course in favour of schools, children, parents, teachers and teachers, is the question of financing non-teaching work. As far as non-teaching is concerned, we are counting on a higher number of these workers in connection with regional education reform, namely the order of thousands, which is, of course, a good thing. On the other hand, we have repeatedly learned on the school committee that, in the case of non-teaching work, as an example, the implementation of public contracts in schools has been mentioned - you know that every director or director does this - is a matter that the municipalities will implement from their financial resources in the future. In recent weeks, I have tried to find out how they are in terms of awareness of this change at the Union of Towns and Communities, but also at the mayors. So I can assure you, my fellow Members, that they do not yet have a single written document by the Minister of Education, and therefore do not have precise information on the means and volumes they may have in their budgets for this. We approve the state budget in a week, they will approve their budgets within three or four weeks at the latest. You know for yourself - many of you are mayors, or you are part of municipal or regional councils - that self-government, even if they want to finance this, must know why, what, how, and how much to project it into their budgets. I do not mention this because I am very happy about it, and I am also trying to address it with the amendment. I mention it because I want to really send what we want to teachers in their wallets and their evaluation to come along. For the last time, I would like to mention, and I liked it, I also think it was in line with the government's programme - we were told once again before the approval of the government's budget on the education committee of the Ministry of Education parties that the current situation is an increase of 2-3 percent for other civil servants, 8 percent for teachers, and that is why there is sufficient distance to settle the salaries of teachers and teachers. We have also been told that if there is a shift - and you know that there has been - in terms of 3% to 5% of the increase for other civil servants, there is a promise by the Ministry of Finance that there is also an increase in the salaries of teachers and teachers. Again, of course, it is immortalized on the sound recording from the school committee. What was our surprise if we subsequently learned that not only did this not happen, but that the proposal from the tripartite is CZK 1,500 to state employees, CZK 1,750 to teachers and teachers. I am quite convinced, my fellow Members, that this very misplaced media report has subsequently caused a strike in our schools. I believe that, in view of what the government is really doing to improve the situation in schools, it is a great pity, and I believe that this should never have happened. The last thing I want to mention in terms of supporting the amendment that I am applying to is the question of setting real money for teachers and teachers. I want to sum up again: we know that only the salary tariff currently works from the point of view of state final accounts. I note that this does not change the reform of regional education funding, as it will continue to be possible to move to the tariff components of the salary. Secondly, as regards the distance from other professions and the equalisation of the salaries of teachers and teachers, it is currently 5 and 8 percent, and as far as the legal requirements of teachers and teachers are concerned, it is therefore that ONIVY does not count on their compliance with legal requirements. All these three things cause - and we know in terms of experience that if this money is bulky, where does it go? They shall be reflected as a minus item on the tariff components of salaries. This means that, in the end, the school directors and school directors will not be left with the funds we believe to be individual evaluations and qualitative evaluations, motivational evaluations of teachers and teachers, but will be reduced by those funds that are lacking in the budget. Once again, I would like to ask you to consider supporting the amendment. As my previous speaker said, it's about counting on the government debt service. I would like to remind you that since 2016, although this may not be a good method - at that time I was the Minister of Finance of the current Prime Minister - the government's debt service has offset the missing money in regional education. It wouldn't be the first time or the last time. I believe that if these funds are in the service of state debt, we will send them to schools right now from 1 January so that school directors and school directors can plan their financial year so that they can maintain their pedagogical and non-teaching teams so that we can improve the education of children and fulfil our government's objective and increase our country's competitiveness for the future. Thank you for supporting the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u43	I also thank Mr Holomčík for the debate, Mr Třešňák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u44	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly introduce you to my three amendments. The first, which is conducted in the system as House Document 3800, involves a transfer of 400 million from the government debt operator to an increase in the budget for the implementation of land adjustments. The proposal led as House document 3803 includes the transfer of CZK 120 million from the specific indicator of the agrifood complex to the project of mapping the melioration and digitization of these data, which would be carried out by the Research Institute for Melioration and Soil Protection. And the amendment led as House document 3805, which includes the transfer of 14 million from the specific indicator of the agrifood complex to ensure veterinary supervision at the slaughterhouse's dedicated sites. I hereby subscribe to my amendments under the numbers 3800, 3803 and 3805. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u45	Thank you, too. And now I beg Mr Třešňák and Mr Navrkal will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u46	Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to sign up for Amendment 3878, which I submit together with Mr Richterová, Mr Vymazal and Mr Bartoš. In short, I will try to justify it, although only briefly due to voice indisposition. As the government has reduced support for the Systemic Support for the Development of Adictological Services under Integrated Drug Policy in the draft state budget, there will be actually some 35 million missing. CZK for the operation of adictological services in the Czech Republic, and thus there will be an indirect threat to the population, due to the fact that finances will be missing not only for services, but also for medical material such as sterile syringes or containers for safe disposal of syringes used. As a result, the quality of health protection of the majority population against infectious diseases, such as jaundice or HIV, would also suffer. However, what I have now said is, in fact, only the means to ensure the current operation, not the further development of services, or even the fulfilment of all the needs arising from the action plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Prevention and Reduction of Damage related to Dependent Behaviour. On the contrary, the aim of our amendment is to return the funds to a sufficient level so that the necessary care can be provided under this programme, and the risks to all residents of the Czech Republic have not increased. Specifically, we are counting on bringing in the 35 miles mentioned. CZK 96 of the state debt item, a specific indicator of the government debt service, and I would be happy if you would then support this amendment at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u47	Thank you. And please Mr Navrkal and Mr Ferjenčík will prepare for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u48	Thank you for the floor. I hereby apply to the amendment, which is recorded as document 3828, and I would like to give a brief explanation. The Czech Republic has undertaken to contribute 0,33 % of gross national income to development cooperation and is counting on achieving this objective by 2030. However, the implementation of commitments is long-term, last year we contributed only 0.14% and, given the planned cuts, the situation should be even worse. To avoid such developments, I propose sticking to the government's medium-term outlook under resolution 435/2018, which envisaged maintaining expenditure at this year's level for 2020. In addition, I would like to remind you that development cooperation makes sense. It helps those in need in places of humanitarian crises or war conflicts and contributes to building conditions for a dignified life of income in developing countries, thus significantly eliminating the grounds for forced migration. It is also fully in line with the humanistic and human rights tradition of Czech foreign policy. Moreover, it is worth noting that development aid is not only beneficial in a given place. Strengthening stability in the neighbouring regions of Europe is an investment in our own security and also opens economic opportunities to Czech companies. In view of this, I therefore consider an effort to cut expenditure of 44 million. CZK for meaningless and in direct conflict with the long-term interests of the Czech Republic. My amendment merely corrects this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u49	Thank you, too. And now, I ask Mr Ferjenčík for a detailed debate, Mr Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present some of the amendments I am proposing for the club, some for myself, and two accompanying resolutions. First of all, as we as the Pirates Club have approached those amendments to the state budget. We have proposed to the government a large austerity package in the range of 12.7 billion. CZK and thanks to this austerity package it is possible to really cover the amendments, where we propose to increase expenditure. So we're trying to make them roughly match the savings we're proposing to achieve in this budget, the increased spending we're proposing in the area of priorities. So let me justify, above all, the austerity package, that's 12.7 billion. Crowns. I hereby apply to Amendment 3913. This proposal proposes to increase the government's budgetary reserve by that amount. It comes from the chapters partly restricting discounts on fares, limiting subsidies to large agro complexes, limiting subsidies to sports unions. Then it is a slight reduction in the Ministry of Defence's budget, so that it will grow by 10 percent, and not by 13 percent, as it is today. I think that this increase is still very generous and we do not see any reason for the expenditure on arms to grow faster than the expenditure on education. And then we propose savings in the operation of the state. After all, my colleague Valachová has already mentioned that the government debt management chapter is exaggerated. Similarly, there is a completely unnecessary chapter in the VPS to cover the employees that the state now does not have and may eventually have. We're suggesting we cut this half a billion and put it in reserve. What's the reserve supposed to serve? In particular, to finance increased expenditure in education. We want the government to keep the promises it made to teachers and raise their salaries more. We also want the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to be respected on this matter. Furthermore, we want investment in infrastructure to be strengthened, especially in the repair and construction of railways. That's where we propose an increase of 6 billion. Crowns. They're probably the two main designs. Then colleagues present smaller changemakers. I will still justify my personal amendments. This is proposal 3916 - strengthening funding for non-state schools. I made a very similar proposal last year, along with other colleagues from the opposition. What's going on? The point is that non-state schools receive wage increases with an annual delay compared to public schools, including schools that may not be collecting tuition fees at all. So the biggest problem with this is, for example, church schools, in social or health areas, church grammar schools, but also non-state schools, many of which work non-profitably only to cover the cost of their operation. Since they provide exactly the same public service as public schools, we do not see any reason for this discrimination. Therefore, I propose to strengthen the Ministry of Education's budget to match non-state schools so that teachers can be paid as well as public schools. Furthermore, I propose to limit the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic and increase the funding of adictology. The point is, the President of the Republic spends 2.4 miles. annual for legal services. We have doubts that these services make any sense at all, often caused by the President's own reckless remarks, these costs. We think he should finance them from his own. Therefore, I propose to cut the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic to legal services by 2.2 million, put it on adictology. Similarly, I propose to reduce the budget - this is therefore Amendment 3923, which I also declare. [[16.40 hours]] I also refer to proposal 3915, which again concerns the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic, namely the Forest Administration of Lana. I suggest we cut the budget for the Forest Administration. Tanks 50 miles. The crown, for two reasons. First, he is still in the police investigation, the transactions that have been made in this field are being investigated, and secondly, the field to this extent should be able to remain self-sufficient. I think it is therefore necessary to improve the management rather than to apply for state budget subsidies. Once again, I suggest we go to adictology, in other words, to fight addiction. And the last amendment I propose is... In addition to these three amendments, I propose two accompanying resolutions - accompanying resolution 3924 - a resolution on the clicking budget. The clicking budget has already been introduced by Mariánské Lázně, introduced by Prague, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, you can see for yourself, thanks to our initiative, as well as by the Supreme Audit Office. We think it's appropriate that if it turns out it can work small, it can work large at state level. I am reporting for the accompanying resolution under number 3924 and I also report for the accompanying resolution number 3925, which calls on the Office of the President of the Republic not to fund the cost of living of sponsors of the presidential campaign of the current President. You may have noticed in the press that the president's sponsors are getting sublime orders from the Castle Office, which means there's no standard tender going on, and I don't think that's right and that we should draw attention to this as the House. I will check that I have not forgotten any of these amendments. This means a large austerity package, two amendments to the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic, one proposal that strengthens funding for non-state schools, and two accompanying resolutions. I thank you in advance for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u51	Thank you. If necessary, you can carry out a check on the log, Mr. Ambassador. And now I beg Mr Kobza, who is next in the detailed debate, and Mr Vích will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I have to admit, after all the billions that my previous speakers have been throwing around, I feel a little bit in the minority role, because my proposal only applies to 70 miles. I would like to sign up for Amendment 3726, which amends the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 as follows: In Chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, data on the transformation cooperation indicator are reduced by 70 million. CZK and are replaced by CZK 0. Secondly, in Chapter 306 of foreign affairs, Syria's recovery indicator spending is increasing by 70 million. Kroner, that means 50 miles. CZK 120 million is replaced by CZK 120 million. Crowns. This proposal is due to the fact that the proposed financial volume of the expenditure indicator for transformation cooperation is still enormously high in the draft state budget for 2020, i.e. compared to other expenditure indicators, which are also primarily aimed at helping the Czech state abroad. In principle, these are significantly political projects financed from this chapter and projects where political-ideological factors prevail. This means, in particular, training and lecture activities characterised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as so-called. strengthening civil society and democratic institutions. This budget item is long-term linked to the political segment called The non-profit sector and its consequences strongly interfere with the internal policy conditions of target countries and partner countries for the Czech Republic. These are the following countries: Burma, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Cuba, Moldova, Serbia and Ukraine. For us in the SPD it is unacceptable for foreign nonprofit organizations or nonprofit organizations financed from abroad to influence the internal political situation in the Czech Republic in some way. It is equally unacceptable for us to have our non-profit organizations or non-profit organisations financed by us doing the same to these countries. In our opinion, this is an activity which is not in the long-term national interest of the Czech Republic, because it can undermine confidence in bilateral relations through factual violations of the international law and diplomatic principle of non-interference. As such, it should definitely not be financed from the Czech public budgets next time, because there is no rational reason or justification for this. On the other hand, quite limited funds earmarked for foreign aid should be allocated priorityly to States and regions which are directly affected or threatened by war events and their consequences or humanitarian crises associated with e.g. with the result of mass migration, crisis or natural disasters. Such a locality is currently the primary Syria, even in the light of recent, extremely brutal Turkish aggression against that country, and especially in view of eight years of ongoing military clashes, largely initiated and fed from abroad. This is a direct result of a devastated country and hundreds of thousands of homeless people with a very difficult approach to the basic needs of life. Our primary objective must be rapid stabilisation of this country, where the only relevant partner is the legitimate Syrian government. Therefore, I propose that all funds be transferred to the so-called Transformative cooperation, 70 million, to the expenditure indicator for the renewal of Syria, the proposed amount of 50 million. CZK is insufficient due to the current situation in the region, e.g. It is precisely with regard to the trieste situation of the Syrian Kurd after Turkey attacked mostly the inhabited territory of northeastern Syria and practically occupied them. It is worth mentioning that the Kurd living in the Czech Republic in their recent declaration for this assistance for civilians in Turek invaded by the northern part of Syria, the Czech State asked through the foreign committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u53	I also thank you, and now Mr Vích, Mr Venhoda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u54	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, allow me briefly to present my amendment, which is inserted into the system under number 3733. This is a proposal for a change in the budget chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, namely in the expenditure block securing the defence of the Czech Republic by the forces of the Czech Army, where I propose to reduce the expenditure circuit ensuring involvement in operations and emergency forces by 489 834 000 and at the same time to convert this to an increase in the expenditure block to ensure the activity and development of combat forces, combat support forces and combat security forces. [[16.50 hours]] The reasons that lead me to this proposal are as follows. The army is aging, buying overpriced helicopters, failing recruitment, having frozen acquisitions, and I also had classified reports about securing the defence of the Czech Republic and the annual report of Military Intelligence, which are under classified regime, and only briefly what I can state here - the state of the army is not good. To date, our army is involved in ten foreign operations and four observation missions. If I asked the Secretary of Defense, he's not here right now, if he'd been able to name the first good one without looking into his documents, I don't think he'd have done it. In this, the government is considering sending more troops to the Sahel area, and I have also heard considerations about sending more soldiers to Syria. This is completely unacceptable from my point of view. When we look at Afghanistan's Resolute Support operation, to date we are at zero after 17 years, and all we can hear is how the security situation is getting worse, the Taliban is strengthening, and opium production is rising. I have also not seen in the Committee on Defence evaluating the objectives and prospects of our participation in individual foreign operations. Canada left here, France left here, and I think we should leave there a long time ago. When we look at the ratio of the number of soldiers deployed to the number of deployables, we have our soldiers out of 44 percent deployed from the possible number of deployables. Just for comparison, the other countries for this are about 25 percent, and Poland even about 5 percent. This means that we should be clear about what is a priority for us, and no one can convince me that participation in ten foreign operations is the fulfilment of NATO obligations. So for this reason, the aim of this amendment is to remedy the long-term neglect of the development of the capabilities of the ground forces and strengthen them. So I am signing up for this amendment, which is in the system, once again, under number 3733, and I am asking for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u55	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mr Venhoda, Mr Polanský will prepare for a detailed debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize in advance for my voice indisposition. I would like to sign up here for Amendments 3755 and 3756. The first, Amendment 3755, concerns an increase in expenditure on the National Programme for the Solution to HIV. This is the sum of CZK 20 million and I would like to state that the Czech Republic is the country with the fifth largest increase in the number of people newly infected with HIV in the years 2010 to 2018. The increase is 128 percent. According to health insurance companies, the cost of treatment is also rising and spends hundreds of millions of crowns each year, which is an average of over CZK 250,000 per patient. Experts point out that although the number of examinations is rising every year, many people are late for testing. They arrive with the first symptoms, or even developed AIDS disease. According to experts, early detection of the disease and treatment can prevent the development of HIV in AIDS. Last year over 300 people died from it in the Czech Republic. If we move away from the human plane, which is important, the premature death of patients' citizens results in the loss of economically active people on the labour market and, ultimately, in terms of money, a significant loss on the revenue side of the state budget. In the numbers language. Thus, this increased funding in the area of prevention has a significant multiplier effect in the form of saving treatment costs and minimizing damage. It is therefore appropriate to support this title beyond the current proposal. My next amendment 3756 raises funds in the indicator, chapter 335 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in the indicator of the national grant title Family by CZK 50 million in the first variant, or in the second variant by CZK 20 million. The aim of the subsidy programme is to support services for families with a preventive and supportive nature. Services are intended to strengthen parental competence, improve family relations, support families in the care of children, their education, and in the reconciliation of work and family, and assist in the arrival and resolution of family crisis situations, including domestic violence, abuse and child abuse. The aim is to provide comprehensive assistance to the family as a whole, which means a wider family, including children and grandparents, and to strengthen the importance of the family for society. It is therefore appropriate to support this title beyond the current proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u57	Thank you and Mrs Kovářová has now signed up with priority right for the starosta's club, so I ask her for a detailed debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you most of the amendments tabled by the Mayors and Independents Club. In general, it shows our priorities, namely education and education, transport infrastructure, regional infrastructure and civic amenities, including the environment. The amendments were tabled by Mrs Jana Krutáková and my colleagues will present the others. As I have noted, the Minister has said that amendments which are in line with the Government's programming statement will be supported. First of all. Secondly, amendments that will not jeopardise the state budget will be supported. I'm paraphrasing that. [[Noise in the hall.]] On the second condition, I must state that the items we have selected for our amendments have been selected responsibly and consistently. For many years, we have been following various indicators and items that are repeatedly not exhausted, and then we are putting these in our amendments. I can assure the Minister... may I...? [[He is turning to the President.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u59	I understand, Madame. I would ask for more peace, ideally at the rapporteur's table. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u60	I can therefore assure the Minister that if any of our amendments were supported, there will definitely not be a distribution of the draft state budget as a whole. [[The Treasury Secretary is talking off the mic.]] Yes. Thank you for the Minister's response. [[Noise in the hall.]] Now to the individual amendments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u61	I'd like us to respond to each other over the microphone, not through some...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u62	Yes, I'm sorry. Now, on individual amendments. The first amendment is conducted in the system under number 3744 and concerns an increase in the salary of teachers. [[Noise in the hall.]] As we know, in the government's programming statement, I quote, we will push more money into education so that teachers' salaries and non-teachers' salaries at the end of the term of office in 2021 will be at least 150 per cent of their amount for 2017. We will improve the support of teachers so that they can concentrate fully on teaching. I must therefore state that what is in the Government's programming declaration may be in line with the increase proposed by the Government. But we're moving a little further, and we have rational reasons for that. For one thing, it is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which sounded that the government would increase 15 percent of teachers' salaries, which is why we are doing so and in the proposal we propose to increase teachers' salaries by 5.5 billion. CZK, so that this increase is 15 %. [[17,00 hours]] Some might say that the promise in the government's programming statement corresponds to 10 percent, but I would say here that the OECD recommends that teachers pay 55,000. Crowns. And since the Secretary of State has very often used the OECD's recommendations in the tax package, I would like to follow up on the recommendations here. Another reason why we are increasing this amount is that teachers' salaries are undervalued compared to other professions with higher education; is 80 per cent of the average salary in public administration and services and 65 per cent in the private sector, which is therefore not enough. Thus, the education sector becomes completely uncompetitive as regards the level of salaries, and therefore the funding needs to be substantially increased, because the only real benefit for teachers at present is the increase in salaries. If we say there's 2,000 missing. teachers, as the Ministry of Education has found out, and 11,000 are to be missing within five years. teachers, thus increasing salaries and such benefits could attract new students of teaching faculties and guarantee that they will actually enter primary schools. It should also be noted that 100 percent of the population will pass through the hands of our teachers and teachers. They are raising future generations, so it is necessary for these people to be of real quality. It is true that salaries as such are not investments in the true sense of the word, but raising teacher salaries can be an investment in the future, and as my colleague Farský always states, the motorway to prosperity of the Czech Republic. So I hope that at third reading you will either support our proposal or any other of the proposals that will be here in the Chamber of Deputies. Now, allow me to apply to the four amendments that are being made in the system under headings 3741, 3742, 3745 and 3822. All these four amendments concern the reconstruction and increase in the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools. And now, once again, let us quote from the government statement: We will provide sufficient capacity for kindergarten schools by strengthening and efficient use of national and European financial resources and better coordination between the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry for Local Development. - So many quotes from the government's programming statement. The reason why we increase funds to four grant titles, whether to kindergarten or elementary school, is as follows. For years we have pointed out that there is a huge shortage in the field of kindergarten and primary schools. Of course it's in the localities around the big cities, but at the moment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u63	Madame, I will interrupt you and invite your colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, to a greater peace of mind. Of course, I understand that there can't be that much noise in the right side of the hall when almost no one is there, but I would still like to ask for more peace so that we can continue. [[Laughing and applause among those present in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u64	I am very glad that colleagues from YES and ČSSD are sitting here, listening to our proposals, I am very pleased. And believe that other opponents are probably still preparing for their speeches or redoing their amendments. [[There's laughter.]] So to return to the subject of kindergarten and primary schools. You may remember 2013, when we managed to enforce a grant title at the Ministry of Finance to increase the capacity of primary schools around large cities. The grant title was really successful and made sure that tens of thousands of children had a place to go to school. Unfortunately, the grant title at the Ministry of Finance ends and will no longer be announced next year with an analysis being carried out. I think that if the analysis is not and is not known to the government how many classes are missing in municipalities and cities, that is sad. We have such analyses, and I think that our colleagues from other parties are very interested in this and we visit the mayors, and those amounts really go into billions of crowns. Of course, we praise the subsidy title at the Ministry of Education, which was introduced as a colleague of Valachová, and there are listed huge schools in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns for each school that must be built. However, the grant title at the Ministry of Finance ends. He was very successful and it would be good if he could continue, because if you look around the very large cities where the big schools were built, the information is as follows. In these big new schools there are no places for children from other municipalities and these municipalities also have to build new schools, it is simply reality. For this reason, we are increasing and extending this grant title to 2021 so that it is time to carry out the analysis and will not be lost another year by 300 miles. Crowns. Another grant title, which we are also increasing, is at the Ministry of Regional Development and we are increasing it by 300 miles. CZK until the title of reconstruction and reconstruction of public buildings. 300 miles. CZK with the need to give money, because in this grant title only applications that have already been evaluated and submitted will be financed next year and new applications will not be met. Well, let's get back to the kindergarten. As I noted, the Prime Minister mentioned at his profile and today at the press conference that he was in one of the kindergarten schools in Prague and that he had learned there was a shortage of places in kindergarten and that parents were therefore dissatisfied. I have to say that we have been drawing attention to this fact for ten years and the situation is not changing because children are still born in these new locations and it is clear that the overhang that is with applications is significant. [[17.10 hours]] The Prime Minister mentioned that he would analyse the situation, that he would request information, and he also claimed that he was intensively addressing the dissatisfaction of parents with lack of places in kindergarten schools. As for the analyses, I must tell the Prime Minister that we have such an analysis. [[He's turning to the Prime Minister.]] The analysis says that only in a thousand municipalities, each municipality replied to the questionnaire, there are more than 6,000 missing. places in kindergartens and that the amount needed for kindergartens in these municipalities is 3 billion. Crowns. Prime Minister, remember how successful you have been, as you say, pouring money into the grant title that we have passed. And I am asking you to listen to us again, and when you are intensively addressing the lack of places in kindergarten schools, to support our amendments concerning the increase in subsidies to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Regional Development. I firmly believe that you will also be calling this step successful in the coming years, and I ask you once again to support these amendments. As I mentioned, I will not be here to discuss any further amendments, but there is another one, and this is a new subsidy title at the Ministry of Finance under the name of supporting the construction and reconstruction of the material technical base of regional education, where it is currently 100 miles. CZK, so we dare propose an increase of 300 miles. Crowns. This money is de facto investment money and can make life easier for parents of children and pupils. Now, allow me to sign up for another amendment that is being held in the system under number 3739. This amendment concerns regional communications. Again, I would like to quote from the government's programming statement: we will adopt rules for financing regional transport infrastructure, which are roads II. and III. classes, through the budget of the SFDI in order to provide funds of 4 billion for them. crowns a year. So the government hasn't done this yet. The system of financing this type is as follows: At the end of the year, the Association of Regions notes that it has no money for reconstruction of roads II. and III. classes. However, this amount does not usually appear in the state budget, and the Governor always has to intervene in March and say that money is needed, which will be negotiated in March, in April, which is too late, because construction has to be started in some way on time. So we would like to propose that this amount be already in the budget of the SFDI, and move the amount of 4 billion there. Crowns. Regardless of the fact that also Minister Kremlík, in connection with the introduction of tolls on the first-class roads, with the way in here, I think, yesterday the Governor spoke, or this morning, yesterday, about the great concern that the trucks will be coming down on roads II. and III. classes and there will be major damage to them. The Minister therefore promised to make the money available to the regions. [[Mrs Mračková responds from the bench.]] And on top of everything else, he promised on the roads. I've got it recorded in monitoring, Minister. When I bought, I sold. However, it's 4 billion. to communication II. and III. classes. Another amendment also concerns communication, namely local ones. The amendment is in the system under number 3740. Again, I would like to quote from the government's programming statement: In addition to housing support, we will extend its activities to regional development and rural support, and also support for strategic investments by municipalities in modernising public areas, in residential development of brownfields regeneration, local roads and tourism. Thus, our amendment is essentially in line with the Government's programming statement. The reason why we propose a transfer of funds of 300 million. CZK for reconstruction or construction of local roads is as follows. Overhang in these grant titles amounted to up to 2 billion. Crowns. Further applications will not be met next year and, among other things, on the basis of mapping, which was carried out in municipalities up to 3,000. population, making it necessary for local communication 200 billion. Crowns. At present, given the financial intensity of local communications, municipalities cannot afford to repair communication at the rate and quantity they would like, which proves the internal debt of 200 billion. Crowns. That's why we're at least increasing the amount by 300 miles. Crowns. Another amendment is a proposal which repeats itself every year and concerns cultural monuments. It's run in the system under number 3743. As you know, we have 40 thousand cultural monuments in the Czech Republic. It is, of course, a cultural heritage. The government is aware of this, because as far as monuments are concerned - and then I will continue to talk about living art - it has put the following into its programme: According to the state budget, we will gradually increase the allocation of funds in individual programmes, both for the field of live art, including the regional network of theatres and orchestras, as well as for the area of conservation, or for memory institutions. So it can be seen here that the government is aware of the importance of reconstruction of regional monuments. However, wonder for the world, in the draft state budget for next year it is even 50 million in the regions to repair monuments. less. Like every year, we draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Culture has an analysis that says that there is an internal debt of more than 300 billion on these cultural monuments. Crowns. The government boasts, and the Prime Minister often talks about the government adding to cultural monuments, which is in a way true, but it is only the large ones owned by the state, and forgets the ones owned by municipalities, private individuals or churches. I think and think that everyone who likes cultural monuments is aware that in this case it is not only about preserving cultural heritage, but perhaps also the Minister of Finance would be pleased that each crown invested precisely to repair cultural monuments will return to the state budget at least three times. [[17.20 hours]] And now, in this context, while we are still in the culture, let me say that we have tabled an amendment which also concerns living art and is conducted in the system under the number 3682. I'm not going to describe him in detail. I am merely stating that, in this amendment, we are increasing the amount of cultural services, the promotion of living art, the cultural activity by 38 million. CZK, especially in support of the state support programme for professional art festivals. The reason we're doing this is this. The draft state budget contains 62 million for festivals. CZK with the fact that there is a government resolution that says that this subsidy title will only be opened if there is an estimated amount of CZK 100 million. Crowns. So we are increasing to this amount so that the grant title can be opened, because definitely the festivals of professional art such as those in Prague, Český Krumlov, Litomyšl and many other cities deserve support. I am continuing and I would like to imagine other amendments concerning the Czech Freedom Warriors Union. This amendment is conducted in the system under number 3737 and concerns the transfer of an amount of CZK 3 150 000 from the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom to the Czechoslovak Legionary Community, with this amount being paid to repair Larischův's villa. Of course, the Pardubice Region, the city of Pardubice, the Czechoslovak Legionary municipality itself will also participate in this repair and hopefully also the Ministry of Culture. This amendment, I would say, has traditionally been tabled with my colleague Ferjenčík. [[In front of the speaker's counter, several members of the YES and a Member of Foldyn from the ČSSD take photographs. There's an exchange of views off the microphone.]] Of course. Interesting notes I'm hearing here. But I hope, through Mr President, that you will send me the souvenir photo you are taking here, because I think this composition is representative. Thank you. Thank you. So I am simply proposing this amendment with my colleague Ferjenčík and Mr Kopřiva. The next amendment concerns the Office of the President of the Republic, where we transfer the amount of 73 thousand. the amount of compensation for victims of crime, damage caused in the exercise of public authority, litigation, personal protection, etc. In short, these are the costs associated with the proceedings and the costs which should have been paid by the Office of the President of the Republic for not providing the applicant with information on the amount of gross income of Chancellor Vratislav Mynář. Of course, the information was not provided after 19 months and the applicant then complained in court. The Office of the President of the Republic refused to pay this amount because it did not agree with the decision of the court, and so it had to be paid by the Ministry of Finance. So we're converting $73,000. CZK just for the chapter of the General Treasury, from which this amount was paid. This amendment is conducted in the system under number 3680 and I also sign up for this proposal. The last - I will be pleased with you - the last amendment is an amendment that is under number 3883 and concerns an increase in the funds for employees' salaries and other payments for the work done by ordinary expenditure at the Railway Authority of 3 million. CZK, and the railway inspection increases this amount by 596 million. Crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for keeping some of your attention. Anyway, I think that the amendments, as I quoted from the government's programming statement, are in line with the government's programming statement, and as you can verify, the items from which we take them are selected so that they will not endanger the composition of the state budget and will not lead to its collapse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u65	Thank you, too. Now, unfortunately, before Mr Polanský gets the floor, Prime Minister Faltýnek, Chairman of the ANO Club, came forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u66	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of our Membership and Social Democracy Club, to propose a procedural proposal for the Chamber of Deputies to act today, and to vote on all proposals in terms of both territorial and procedural terms, even after 19 and 21 hours, respectively. Pending the conclusion of the second reading of the State budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u67	Thank you. This is therefore a procedural proposal. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. I'm hearing an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. And for Members who are yet to come, I will repeat that we will be voting on a procedural proposal to act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms today and to vote after 19 and 21 hours, pending the discussion of this second reading of the State Budget Act. If no one's against it, we'll settle it with one vote, unless someone wishes to divide it, which I don't suppose anyone would want to. I see that there are already enough of us, although I see that there are still some colleagues on the way. I repeat - I am opening the vote and we are voting on whether we will be negotiating today after 19th and 21st hours. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 69, 137 Members and Members are registered, for 100 equals, against no one. The motion has been adopted, so we will continue the negotiations. I therefore ask Mr Polanský, who is duly entered into a detailed debate. Mr. Kytýr will be ready. Before I give you my word, I will wait for the House to calm down a bit. Thank you to all who have arrived at the vote, and we will continue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government, allow me to present the amendments that we have drawn up together with my colleague, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. In the House system, they are stored under the number of the House document 3794. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] The amendments address the unfavourable situation with the Railway Infrastructure Administration, when there was a dramatic fall in the budget year on year, up to the limit of the amount necessary to ensure normal operation, not to mention new investment actions. Their essence is the creation of a new specific indicator of chapter 327, i.e. the Ministry of Transport, with the name of the subsidy for the Railway Infrastructure Administration organization, and the addressing of funds which would increase the total budget of SŽDC to an amount comparable to 2019 in the case of one amendment and in the case of -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u69	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! I know this is an important and exciting debate, and I would ask those who are discussing something other than proposals for amendments to the draft State Budget Act to do so ideally in the lobby or elsewhere. So please, you can go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u70	Thank you. Thus, to increase the amount to an amount comparable to 2019 in the case of one amendment. And in the case of a second increase, at least to the extent that we ensure by the Budget Act that normal operation and maintenance will not be reduced on the Railway Infrastructure Administration next year. This alternative amendment is also fully in line with the accompanying resolution adopted by the Economic Committee, together with the draft budget of the SFDI for 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u71	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. President Stanjura is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u72	Thank you for the floor. Given the hour and the number of entries, I will be extremely brief today. First, I would like to say that I am applying to the amendment, which has number 3928. I gave one pare to the rapporteur. I'm sure you remember when we were debating the basic parameters of the state budget at first reading, so we civil democrats criticized not only the structure of the budget, but especially the deficit. In order not to be a mere criticism, as is the custom of our country every year, we have looked into this budget in detail and we are proposing to the Chamber of Deputies savings of 46 billion. If the amendment passes, the draft budget is not only balanced but also very slightly surplus. All changes, i.e. all potential savings, we propose to transfer to the benefit of the state debt item, the service of the state debt. I think it's logical. At the time the basic parameters of the budget were approved, it seemed to us to be the most reasonable at the time when we wanted to show potential savings, suggesting this to the government debt service. Of course, other specific amendments tabled by my colleagues and my colleagues are now heading towards a change in expenditure, while respecting the basic budgetary framework approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Just to the edge. It is a pity that we did not start in the morning, because experience is in charge of the need for a second reading, in principle, for the whole day of the meeting, and I think that the number of registered colleagues and colleagues wishing to present their amendments is in line with this. I think the total number of performers will be more than 50. I remember that number when it started, plus priority rights, it's logical, that's just it. At a total of 1,600 billion. it is very likely that individual Members will come up with their amendments. I would briefly introduce just some of these items, I won't read all of them, there are about 17 or 18 where we propose the savings. I must say that I am aware of the political reality, but if we were to judge these proposals regardless of who makes them, whether he is a member of the government majority or opposition, I think that at least a part of them would be supported by the Minister. I am not saying that all of them, but I think that if we did not judge them politically, but I understand that the draft state budget is a highly political document, I think that the Minister could support these proposals. I'm not talking about the items representing the government's political agenda. It's logical that the government has a program and the program is projected in its items. Of course, that is where our amendments are headed. However, when I mention the first item on that list, which is from Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, from the entry of active employment policy, I think we can agree with the Minister that the proposal of 3.6 billion. is completely out of economic reality and especially outside the needs of the Czech Republic. Fortunately, we have record low unemployment, at the same time record high employment, two different figures - yet Minister Maláčová has claimed an incredible amount of 3.6 billion. and some change for active employment policy. In other words, in our view, those who want to work can work today. Almost every employer tells you they're looking for a workforce. Considering the number of legally employed foreign citizens, they are already hundreds of thousands. That means, I don't know who we'd be in 3.6 billion. They retrained there and back, if this group of people who can work have the prerequisites, they don't have a disability, they don't have restrictions, so I think it's badly invested money. So this is where we propose to save 2.6 billion. Even that balance is more than 1 billion. it would be sufficient to cover the needs of the state in this area. So that I'm not just at MPSV, so if we look at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the popular and recurring item is the promotion of business. In the government's concept, support for entrepreneurship means investment incentives and grant titles. In our concept, the best business support is simple and low taxes. When we think about the subsidy system, actually, all the businessmen and all the taxpayers pay their taxes and lay down the subsidy for the lucky ones. Very often for the big ones and the successful ones. And we think it's a mistake. In this item we propose to shorten 15.9 billion. original by 5,8 billion. We're realistic, we're not suggesting zero, we're essentially proposing a third of the money. I think that maybe the lucky ones who are used to the state budget money would be disappointed, but I think that the vast majority of entrepreneurs who do not ask for subsidies would actually welcome that their taxes are not paying subsidies to anyone else. If we look at the other items, I'll look at the transport resort. Let us tell ourselves whether the proposed amount of space spending corresponds to the needs of the Czech Republic. I am also convinced from my own experience that the amount is overvalued, that 700 miles. That's enough. It's easy to save half a billion here. For many amendments, I can imagine the Minister's position when he will say: there are no resources for this. Here's a specific source. Perhaps today or next week on Wednesday, the Minister of Transport could explain why the Czech Republic needs 1.2 billion. to cosmic activities next year. Then it's -- we have Galileo. I heard we had Galilea. Well, that's true, but when you look at Galileo's creation, it was supposed to be a commercially successful project. The assumption was that those who would use it would pay for it. So maybe we have Galileo, but if we're paying 1.2 billion. Galileo, so how much does Germany, France, Italy, Spain and other Member States pay? I don't think Galileo is able to absorb it if we add it up, for example. by population. It would be much fairer, for example. according to GDP per capita and the strength of the economy of individual Member States. Then one item, which - the similarity and connection with the Prime Minister is purely random, as is always stated in some works of art, that it has no connection, so you may not believe us, but it has no connection, but it is an item that reminds me of the old times of the communist system. Support for the agrifood complex. I think it's a terrible saying, this, supporting the agrifood complex. We could also support other complexes. It would sound like an assignment from some convention of the unnamed Communist Party. This is where we propose to save 4.85 billion. [[17.40 hours]] If we look at another favorite item, now I mean in quotation marks - compensation for fare discounts. A big surprise for the Minister of Transport, for the Minister of Finance, for the Prime Minister, that the system can be abused and bypassed. I would have believed that surprise if we hadn't been saying it all along, pointing out possible risks. I have noted the media output from the joint meeting of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, how they will now shine on the carriers and how they will make it all right. However, in the draft budget, no savings have been made against the current situation with which the members of the government are not even satisfied. We think that much better would be, for example, the 5.5 billion. to be used to increase pensions. Much better! It would be fairer. I hear very often that the pensioners are satisfied with it. Yes, those who travel are certainly satisfied with it, and I don't blame them. But what is a group of retirees who, for various reasons, cannot use these reasons? They just can't travel? Health reasons, social reasons, family reasons, and so I could continue. They don't get a damn thing out of it. The measure is unfair, it cannot be checked at all. If you look at the additions to the number of passengers, they are not in any way stunning. The trend of the increasing number of people in public transport was before these discounts were introduced. And I remember an old condition where those compensations were about 250 miles. Kroner a year, and I have to tell you, even then, it couldn't be checked 100%, and the volume was 20 times lower. And I say that with the knowledge of the Department of Transport, even though I was there for a while. We haven't found a mechanism in those six months to effectively check 20 times the amount we're looking at today. I just rounded that up. I was counting on 5 billion, it's a little higher. So we're proposing the 5.5 billion. save it and it can be used, for example, for part of the parental allowance for those 20 percent of the families that the government's proposal forgot. That's not nearly 5 billion, that's a lower amount. Alternatively, I would like to remind you that the government and we - the House and the Senate - have added CZK 150 a month to the elderly against legal claims, although the surplus in the pension account for next year is planned at CZK 17 billion. I'm based on the figures in the draft state budget. I could defend all 17 or 18 items, I won't do so. I only have a procedural request for the rapporteur, as I did last year and last year, when this is voted on, so that we can vote separately on each of these savings proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u73	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Kytýr will speak in the debate, and Mrs Šafránková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor. And I'll read you an apology before I give you that word. Mr Petr Pávek apologizes today between 5:00 p.m. and midnight because of the visit of the doctor and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová from today's meeting from 4:30 p.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for the House document 3762, which we, together with Members Pavel Staněk and Pavel Juříček. This amendment to the State budget for 2020 refers to Chapter 309 of the Ombudsman's Office, where we reduce the amount by 14 million in this chapter. and moving it to the benefit of Chapter 378 of the National Cyber and Information Security Authority. Let me briefly comment on this amendment and justify it. This amendment is aimed at halting the growth of workers in the Ombudsman's Office. Between 2016 and 2019, the number of employees increased by 27. Basically, the number of employees increases by six people year-on-year, although the number of individual initiatives managed by the Ombudsman's Office increased by a maximum of 127 cases per year between 2016 and 2019. At the same time, the trend of the errors found in 2016 was 10 %, 9 % in 2018. Together with the other translators, we believe that this office is incredibly swelling for us year on year during this period. At the same time in 2019, the Committee on Budgets approved measures on the Ombudsman's Office project under the title of strengthening the Ombudsman's activities to protect human rights in order to establish a national human rights institution in the Czech Republic. In principle, this measure will increase by additional staff in this office. The aim of this project is to strengthen the Ombudsman's staff, thereby increasing the protection of the rights of persons under his mandate. It is clear from this project that, after the end of this subsidy title, these employees are moving from funds actually to state budget funds, and again by increasing their activities, this office will increase the number of employees and re-boot them. For these reasons, I ask you to support the proposed amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u75	Thank you. The next is Mrs Šafránková and Mr Koten will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to two of my amendments to the state budget for 2020. My amendments have the numbers of House documents 3747 and 3844. Both have a common incentive to transfer public funds from items that are irresponsibly oversized and inefficiently designed to areas where, on the contrary, long-term finance does not reach, where public interest is not sufficiently met, or even where their financial enhancement will have a multiplier effect, and they also have in common that they are trying to allocate State budget funds where public policies are involved and to strengthen the care of public goods, and to remove them from where they are largely used to generate profits from private entities. The first concerns the transfer of funds in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs amounting to CZK 1 billion from the block of active employment policy from one half to the payment appropriations for salaries and other payments for the work done and from the other half to the pension insurance benefit indicator. Expenditure of CZK 3 604 475 953 for active employment policy for next year is unjustified, i.e. CZK 1 056 493 120 higher than in the budget for 2019. At a time of economic growth and a decline in unemployment, this is an illogical and irresponsible measure. It is also alarming that funds of CZK 981 795 100 are earmarked for their own instruments of active employment policy, while these expenditures under the European Union programme amount to CZK 2 468 066 353. The vast majority of these funds are directed at non-state actors' projects, and their effect is more than questionable. On the contrary, wages of workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs need to be increased, both at the Ministry and within the structures of the Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office. These workers have long been neglected in the process of increasing the salary of state employees compared to other professions and supervisors, which can be considered very unfair even because they are often in the front line of the struggle for the interests of the state, their role is difficult and field workers are also very risky, and this deserves appreciation. [[17.50 hours]] Similarly, it can be considered necessary to increase pension benefits where, in view of economic developments, it is good to have a certain reserve, but mainly to increase the pension of low-income pensioners living below the existential poverty threshold, both old-age and disabled pensioners. My second amendment is inter-ministerial. The proposed state budget deficit is 40 billion. Crowns. The deficit of the proposed budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade is 34 billion. This means 85 percent of the total deficit, 27 billion of which. is the amount of the expenditure indicator of the subsidy for renewable energy sources, which means that almost 80 per cent of the total volume of the deficit of the Ministry of Industry and Trade consists of resources intended to promote the production of energy from renewable sources. From the point of view of the overall budget deficit, this is 67,5 %. The total amount of support for renewable resources for 2020 should reach 47,559 billion. Crowns. Part of this sum, mentioned 27 billion. CZK, is financed through a subsidy from the state budget. Year-on-year total subsidies for renewable energy sources are increasing by 800 million. Crowns. This subsidy is increasing steadily. Since 2011, it has increased by 15.3 billion. CZK 125 per cent, while the construction of solar power plants has de facto stopped and the percentage of production of electricity from supported sources has not increased significantly in the overall energy mix. As the Ministry of Industry and Trade has recklessly progressed in this area, it is also apparent from the fact that the Act on Supported Energy Resources states that the costs of promoting electricity are financed under Section 6 (1) (a) of the Act on Energy Support. 5 of the Energy Management Act, cited in Section 6 para. The amendment to the Act, effective as of 1 July 2015, was repealed by the Energy Management Act. I therefore propose a reduction of this indicator by 800 million. CZK, which is roughly the value of its planned annual increase. I propose to transfer this amount to the expenditure indicator of the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, non-investment non-payment transfers, primarily in the area of social services provided by local authorities, which is a segment that has been regularly underfunded in recent years, respectively. a segment where, in the middle of the year, the funds budgeted to ensure the essential functions it is intended to provide to citizens at risk of social risks are already running out. This is a priority item transfers under Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on social services, but also on other budget items, transfers to territorial budgets for social and legal protection of children, subsidies for activities carried out by municipalities with extended scope in the field of social and legal protection of children, state contribution to the exercise of foster care, contribution to the performance of social work at regional and municipal authorities, which I also consider necessary to strengthen financially and budgetaryly by this proposal. I beg you to support these proposals in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u77	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Radek Koten. Before I give him my word, I'll read an apology. Mr Radek Holomčík apologizes today from 19:00 to 21:00 for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u78	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, allow me to sign up for a written amendment to the press 605. It's House Document No 3856. Let me give him a brief explanation. In Annex 4 to the Government Bill, Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior in the section of the specific indicators, expenditures and lines of expenditure to ensure the fulfilment of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and national organisational units of the state reduces expenditure by CZK half a billion so that the new amount is 13 - well, that is, I hope to read it by numbers, these are such numbers that I may not even be able to read it, but let's say - 13 billion 96 million 777 thousand 191. The amount of CZK half a billion under the specific indicator of expenditure of the same Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior is shifted and distributed by: (a) 250 million. The expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic is increasing by CZK 250 million. The costs of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic are increasing. Where the relocation of the appropriations in question affects cross-cutting indicators of expenditure of the same Chapter 314, the indicators concerned shall be adapted by analogy. Reason. The purpose of the amendment is to move funds within one chapter of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic from budget items which are intended for research and innovative projects aimed at combating extremism in favour of components that support material equipment of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. Reports of extremism and predicate hatred show that there were and are still high funds between 600 and 800 million in the Czech Republic and other documents for the state's security research programme between 2016 and 2021. Crowns. It is not clear from the published information what purposes allocated funds are used for. They are used, for example, for research and processing studies on extremism, including support for experimental development and innovation in the field. Given that these amounts are drawn every year at this brutal level, I think it is time to think about what the objective is, and therefore whether these resources really do not shift to some material things that both the police and the fire department will use. In view of the low level of information not only to the public but also to legislators, it is not clear whether the funds are spent effectively, what research outputs are and whether they are applicable in practice at all. Moreover, it is important to point out that sufficient resources are already being spent on covering the security risks of the state and its citizens, protecting national interests, combating extremism, and therefore there is no reason for the volume of funds to continue to increase. Within the same chapter of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, strengthening the protection of the safety, health and property of citizens should be a priority, and it is therefore proposed that the funds intended primarily for research and study should move evenly into the budgetary indicators of the Czech Police and the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. An amount of 250 million. CZK for each of these units would allow them to purchase adequate material equipment, especially height technology in the case of the fire department, because there are some ladders thirty years old, it is slowly going between veterans, and then the fleet and special equipment for the task force and the rapid deployment of the police, because they lack, is outdated and the only vehicle they have must start three hours before the intervention, so it is basically useless. It is not clear which heading of the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic allocates allocated funds, therefore a legislative technical provision is included in the proposal that if any cross-cutting indicators are affected, these will be adjusted accordingly. I therefore ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u79	Thank you. Mr Farský will speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support two amendments. One concerns mountain service, because for me quite incomprehensiblely in a situation where the number of visits to the mountains and associated injuries is increasing after-season season, so the support of mountain service is incomprehensiblely reduced. I took the liberty of making an amendment under number 3881 to make up for it and to increase the mountain service budget a little bit further at the Ministry of Regional Development by 50 million. Crowns. I took the liberty of putting this in two options because I know it is difficult for you to support any amendment that comes from the opposition. The second such minimum variant proposal for this is an increase of 24 million. the current amount, which is still a decline compared to this year. This is the amount that allows the mountain service to survive at least a year and to fulfil its obligations. The wages are rising everywhere, the technology is of course outdated, and I think that for the jewel we have in our mountains and for the safety of the people who visit them, the mountain service deserves it. [[18.00 hours]] So I am applying to the amendment under number 3881, which is presented in two variants. In both cases, it is the support of the mountain service. In one case, in which I prefer, the increase in their budget is 50 million, in that crisis option two, it's an increase of 24 million. Crowns. I also want to sign up for the amendment in the system under number 3899 and it concerns the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, namely its increase by 2 million. Crowns. The reason for this is clear, given that next year, the USTR organises an annual meeting of the European network of secret police authorities, and because it not only organizes, but is also a host, there are certain costs associated with this, which are calculated precisely for those 2 miles. CZK, so that they can host the conference and light the Czech Republic so well for everyone involved. The states involved are twelve, and it is indeed a prestigious matter. So please and thank you in advance for supporting these two amendments, which are read in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u81	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Jan Čižinský, I will read the apologies. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes today from 20 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Jan Pošvář from 18.30 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Václav Votava today from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u82	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for two amendments, namely the House Press 3879 and 3880. [[document]] In the case of printing 3879 - it is directed against unnecessary and meaningless checks at Prague Castle, because since 2016 at access points to the Prague Castle complex within the District of the Office of the President of the Republic are established checks, which are completely unnecessary. [[document]] The reasons given for their introduction are proxy. The controls both both both the Pražan and the tourists and the police. Therefore, in this amendment, I propose that the funds that are being harassed by these police officers should be transferred to the Security Information Service budget because, on the other hand, they are significantly involved in combating the real dangers posed by the increased activities of the secret services of foreign powers in the Czech Republic and the spread of disinformation. The second amendment is from the Ministry of Environment. This is an increase in resources for conservation of nature and landscape, to improve the state of nature and landscape by 40 miles. Crowns. It's a gateway to the Dry 2 research project. These finances are related because one is research and the other is application, and I suggest we move 40 miles. to those apps so that something really happens in our landscape against drought. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u83	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Martin Baxa, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u84	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate I would like to subscribe to three House documents, three amendments, namely House document 3911, House document 3735 and House document 3736. I would start with the House document under number 3911, which is an amendment concerning the salary of teachers. It's a very important, crucial matter. The Prime Minister has repeatedly promised to increase the salary of teachers by 15 percent, and Minister Plaga has also complied with this commitment. However, if we look at the reality of the draft state budget, as the popular deed is said to have escaped. An increase of 15 per cent occurred only for this year, and even 15 per cent did not reach the teachers. And despite these promises made by the Prime Minister and the Minister, the increase for 2020 and 2021 is much less ambitious and certainly below 15 percent. I therefore propose an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Education in the chapter of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations by an amount of CZK 5.5 billion, which is very approximately equivalent to the amount contained in that promise of 15 percent, so that teachers will actually receive much more funding for their salaries from 1 January next year than is expected in the reality of the draft state budget that we are discussing. The arguments are obvious. The salaries of Czech teachers are about 70 percent, perhaps not even that, the average salary of college students in our country. We are on the verge of OECD countries, which talk about how high teachers' salaries are compared to college students and absolute ones. Teacher choirs are getting old. Already in September this year, according to the inquiry of the Ministry of Education itself, around 6,000 teachers were missing and it is not possible to assume that the low salary base of Czech teachers' salaries should attract more young people interested in this profession. If we want and if we are serious about education priorities, then I am convinced that we cannot do without a significant increase in teaching salaries as promised by the government after all. The other two House documents, 3735 and 3736, concern the field of culture. They relate, on the one hand, to the promotion of live art and, on the other, to the promotion of regional cultural infrastructure. The promotion of living art is designed to amount to CZK 400 million, i.e. an increase in the cultural service expenditure block and the promotion of live art by CZK 400 million, with the suggestion that this amount should be divided into two separate aids, namely CZK 220 million as an increase in the State Support Programme for Professional Theatre and Permanent Professional Symphony Orchestras and Choirs, which is actually the only instrument that the Government and the Ministry of Culture have to promote cultural activities in the regions. In fact, this programme serves to support regional cultural institutions, which often go beyond the boundaries of the city in which they are located and the entire regions by their artistic quality and their importance. They often have a national dimension. In fact, their funding burden is fully on the founders, which is very difficult especially in recent years, when there has been a significant increase in the salaries of the employees of these organisations under the government's payroll regulation. And the jumps are, of course, correct in relation to the fact that employees in culture had very low salaries. Compensation on the part of the state didn't actually come up with any. This subsidy program was very low. In view of what would be needed to co-finance it, I find it scandalous that next year's draft budget for this budget item at the moment only includes CZK 130 million, which is almost 40 percent less than the reality of this programme this year, when the original amount of CZK 160 million was increased by several tens of millions and finally the amount distributed this year was around 210 million. And there is no other way to say that, in its own way, it is mocked by cultural actors, if this is humiliated by such a substantial sum. The Minister has repeatedly talked about the pre-negotiation with the Minister of Finance of an increase in this amount. However, as they say, what is written is given. The draft budget contains the 130 million crowns, even - and that may be an effect that is not so much discussed in the budget projections for the next year. And I believe that if regional cultural institutions are to function well, if they are to have sufficient support, it is essential to increase this subsidy programme. [[18.10 hours]] I also propose to increase the subsidy programme or a measure called cultural activities by 180 million crowns. There has been no significant humiliation in this item, it is even slightly increased, but it is clear that the total amount of this aid is completely insufficient. I'd take the liberty of documenting this on one case or one particular example. There is a state programme to support professional art festivals, which is very important, important for events that clearly have national reach. It supported such events as the Smetana Litomyšl Opera Festival, the International Theatre Festival in my city, Dance Prague, World of Books and more. However, according to the Government resolution, this programme can only be opened in a situation where the amount of more than CZK 100 million is allocated to it. In the current draft budget of the Ministry of Culture, however, only CZK 62 million is written, and this programme cannot be opened, which really means a fundamental threat to these important cultural activities. Here again, there is a promise that this programme should somehow be strengthened ad hoc. But it does not change the fact that there is simply little money in the draft of this budget for cultural activities and that, in any case, if we are talking not only about culture as a priority, but about cultural activities as something that should also be an emblematic sign of our country, such funds simply are not enough. My second amendment to the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture or the State Budget, the budget chapter of the Ministry of Culture, concerns regional cultural infrastructure, where I propose an increase of CZK 233 million, so that this amount reaches at least CZK 500 million. The government statement itself contains a commitment to support regional cultural infrastructure. There are even the events listed. Janáček Center in Brno, new building of study and scientific library or regional library in Ostrava. A number of others. But if such a thing, such an intention, such investment projects in regions are to be really supported, funds must be earmarked for this. For those less than 300 million, as much as there is in the present proposal, one such project can be supported to the maximum and in no way can such a subsidised programme provide for any long-term financing of regional cultural infrastructure, for the regions and municipalities which are the founders of these institutions, any guarantee that the State will find its share of regional cultural infrastructure essential, in a situation where, as with the various organisations as well as those institutions, their importance clearly exceeds the borders of those cities and regions and is often of national importance. I would also like to conclude to a certain extent that we are in a position to look forward to this situation. In fact, I have already presented these amendments here for the third time, as already on the draft budget 2018, 2019 and 2020, and despite actually unprecedented economic growth, despite the huge influx of money into the state budget, despite the fact that the government of Andrej Babiš has really significant amounts of year-to-year growth, culture remains a true cinderella, a party to the government's interest, despite the fact that the government considers it its priority. And what is definitely true is that this situation cannot last forever, and I am very worried that one day there will be a situation where it will simply not be enough for cultural institutions in our country to function as well as they could if they do not have sufficient state support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u85	Thank you. Next is Mr Václav Klaus, Mrs Majerová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam rapporteur, I will divide my performance into two parts. One, the first one, it's gonna be technical. I'm signing up for prints 3776, 3777, 3778 and 3860. With the largest amendment, this is the 3860, where we are trying to withdraw half a billion crowns, 500 million. CZK, from grant titles to political non-profits, I would like to make it clear, after a discussion with the rapporteur, that, on the contrary, this money, which is saved, will be devoted to the accounts of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the specific indicator of pension insurance benefits by 250 million. Crowns. And the next increase will be Chapter 396 of the State Debt. So there's another 250 million that would add up. I'm just saying this here because of a certain discretion with ministerial servants, as we discussed over the tables, to make it clear. I would therefore now like to look at the general part of why we are proposing these amendments. Proposals 3777, this is the withdrawal of money from the industry and the transfer to the police, justify colleague Majerová; 3778, i.e. the collection of money from the State Cinema Fund in favour of conservation of monuments, is also justified by colleague Majerová. And now, therefore, to the political part of the speech on those two amendments. Changes in the budget - I understand that the Ministry and the government majority do not like to see them, because of course the budget is somehow prepared and I, too, when I rule, will of course motivate our Members not to put too much of these changes there, so that it is not Galimatyas, so I understand very much. Nevertheless, I beg your attention to these amendments. We have made a promise to voters to withdraw money from political nonprofits, and we are doing so with these proposals. However, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to emphasise that this measure or our political position is not directed against non-profit organisations as such. That is why the 3776 proposal is clearly in favour of one non-profit organization, and that is the Mountain Service. In this proposal, we are trying to remove 30% of the budget from the Ombudsman's organization and devote it to the Mountain Service, which is a non-profit organization. Of course, there's a point, because if you break your leg somewhere 1,000 meters above sea level, the ambulance doesn't go there because there's snow and these guys have to take him down to the hospital until the ambulance gets down to the village so that the person can be taken to the hospital. I appreciate the work of the Mountain Service. All my neighbors are also members of the Mountain Service, so I have such a local patriotic interest in it. But in particular, we want to demonstrate that our attack, if you like, is aimed at political nonprofits, not nonprofits as such. In the second part, I want to say that we have tried very carefully to find out the grant titles from which various well-cooked political nonprofits in the Czech Republic are financed. That's exactly what we found, and we're taking money from the resort at different rates. The system, how these political nonprofits are financed, is very complex for understandable reasons, so that the system can be easily hacked. So what we're actually taking is that we're throwing the ball to individual ministries and taking money from those chapters of grant titles so that the ministry can do it itself. Why? Because those who promote political views and interests should be financed by means of political parties and movements, and not secretly through subsidy programmes. First, it is moral, and second, we consider it economic. So we're proposing 500 miles. CZK, half a billion, to take away political nonprofits and of which 250 million, half, to give to pensioners and the other half to pay off the government debt. At the same time, this will also preserve money for non-profits for generally beneficial purposes, because, as I have already submitted, this measure is not directed against non-profit organizations as such, which we value, but on those political ones. This is briefly the content of our amendment. And I'd be very happy if you'd support him at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u87	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Majerová. I will read an apology, Mrs Jana Levová apologizes today from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for family reasons. Please, you have the floor. And Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes until the end of the day for business reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u88	Have a nice evening. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, I would like to sign up in this debate to those amendments 3777 and 3778. I propose an amendment to press 605, which concerns the Government's draft budget and is a reduction in Chapter 322, as my colleague, the Ministry of Industry and Business Support have already submitted by 10 percent, i.e. by 1 586 683 292 CZK and at the same time by an increase in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of Interior for the expenditure of the police by this amount. We think that ordinary cops who take care of our safety certainly deserve it. It's one of the points of our program. The business promotion chapter sounds good at first sight, but it's nothing but a further grant. Riches arise from work, not from subsidies, it is also one of our pillars. And if the government really wants to help business, let it reduce taxes and reduce bureaucratic burdens. That, in my view, is the only support that makes sense. My next, for today's second amendment with the number 3778 to the state budget includes the reduction of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, the State Cinema Fund, by also 10 %, i.e. by 19 286 225 CZK, and the use of this amount to increase the indicator of programmes for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments in the same chapter. The reasons are very similar to those in the first amendment. In general, our Tricolore movement does not support the redistribution of taxpayers' money by means of subsidies, and if it concerns commercial activities, this applies twice as much. The funds obtained by reducing subsidies for film production would be used to restore cultural monuments. It also makes more sense because, unlike cinema and film, this sector cannot make money from it, and in addition from restoration, restoration of monuments is a joy and pleasure to everyone without distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u89	Thank you. Now, with priority right, the Rakušan Member will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u90	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I apologize to my colleagues who were ahead of me. I will also try to comment quickly on the two amendments that I have introduced into the system. The first is the House document under number 3684 and concerns drug policy. As part of the long discussion, perhaps too long, about the tax package here at the House of Deputies, we have heard the government's fundamental argument that gambling is necessary, that it is precisely because of the need to tax hard alcohol, so that the funds are precisely to prevent pathological phenomena, so that we fight precisely pathological phenomena, addictions. Unfortunately, it turns out that although the tax package has been approved and the funds to the state budget will, of course, come more, so it clearly shows that funds for drug policy in the Czech Republic are being reduced. Prove that the Ministry of Justice is getting 9 miles on the drug policy program. koruna less than this year. So my proposal is very simple, and so we propose to increase the Ministry of Justice chapter in order to maintain a drug policy programme of at least the same size as it was this year, namely by 9 miles. Crowns. The second amendment in the system registered under number 3685 is factually related. This year, experts expressed doubts as to whether it is possible to maintain high-quality care in the area of social prevention and crime prevention, and if we fail to maintain funds at least as much as they were this year, this chapter is also significantly threatened and the programmes of probation and resocialization programmes for juvenile offenders are at risk. Please note that the juvenile delinquents are the ones that we should be particularly concerned about, because here is the possibility for the probation and mediation services to intervene, here is the possibility of resocialization and the attempt to return these people to a normal, orderly life is simply highly desirable. Thus, reducing money even though the announced tax package was approved with the argument that it should be fought against dependence and various ills in this area, so reducing this money is simply very illogical in the whole government-presented concept of the state budget. Therefore, I would like to propose that in this chapter of the Ministry of Justice, as it was last year, this amount should be increased by 900 thousand. Crowns. If the government is serious about its struggle with those pathological addictions that are definitely in our society, if it really wasn't just about pulling money out of taxpayers' pockets, and simply taxing a sportsman, taxing betting, taxing hard alcohol, and if it really wants to fight addictions, then let it be reflected in the state budget and keep these two chapters of the Ministry of Justice at least as high as they were in 2019. That is the content of my two amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u91	Thank you, too. I'll read two apologies. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková apologizes today from 19.20 to 20.30 for working reasons and Mr Antonín Staněk today from 18.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Holík is in the debate and Mr Radek Zlesák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u92	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present here my amendment, which is read under number 3875. I propose to increase the expenditure of Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment in the specific nature conservation indicator by CZK 200 million. As a reason, I say: The aim of this amendment is to combat drought and keep water in the countryside. Emphasis is placed on anti-erosion protection. It is mainly about the construction of small reservoirs of water, specifically small ponds, wetlands, the formation of meanders, the planting of draws and other anti-erosion elements. Green planting, we support both on agricultural areas, but so that we can also use large areas of logistics centres, hypermarkets and manufacturing plants. [[18.30 hours]] Furthermore, I propose to increase by 200 million in specific environmental protection indicators. I justify it by creating a huge amount of mainly plastic waste through one's activities. We have this plastic waste or its collection incredibly manageable, but we can't sort this waste by individual polymers and we don't have processing lines. So for this reason, I would like to use this money to expand sorting centres and recycling lines. Ladies and gentlemen, we all live in the same house together. The house is called Earth, and we don't treat it the way we should. And if we want to survive, we have to do something about it. Our SPD movement is for conservation of nature and landscape and we are not indifferent to what country we live in. For this reason, I ask you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u93	Thank you. Mr Radek Zlesák, Mrs Langšádlová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the joint amendment by Radek Zlesák, Antonín Staněk, Ivo Pojezný, Lenka Kozlová, Miroslava Rutová, Pavel Žáček and Tomáš Martínek to this press, which is listed in the system under the number of House document 3652. This amendment increases the support of youth activity by CZK 20 million in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education. While support for infrastructure and its own regular activities is multiple in the field of sport, it is still increasing and this is very good, so the youth area remains, unfortunately, neglected. The MŠMT investment programme distributes only CZK 25 million per year for all investments of all organizations throughout the Czech Republic. For their activities, such as Junák, Tomíks and many others with a total membership base of over 200,000 people, they need hundreds of clubs, camp bases and objects for weekend events. Their reconstructions in this system stretch for decades. Some organizations still haven't been able to repair the devastated assets transferred to them by the House from the former GSM property. In the concept of youth support for the period 2014 to 2020, approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 12 May 2014 by resolution 342/2014, one of the objectives is to support the development of organisations working in informal and interest education with an emphasis on the quality of education. Support for youth work declined year-on-year until 2012, when this trend was able to stop and reverse. The aid was still about a third lower in 2014 than in 2007. Since 2008, the number of applicants applying for financial support in the MŠMT subsidy and development programmes, the Youth Department, has been increasing annually. For some organisations, the year-on-year increase in the membership base is 10%, which means thousands of new children coming into these extracurricular activities. Therefore, I beg your support for this joint amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u95	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Langšádlová. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward three amendments, as the figures of the House prints 3825, 3824 and 3820. [[documents]] I'll introduce them briefly. The first amendment concerns an increase in the budget of the State Physical Reserve Administration. You know, there was a very heated discussion about this on our economic committee as well. The point is that the Office of State Material Reserves, the Administration of State Material Reserves, plans to sell metals worth more than CZK 2 billion without going back to purchase and without actually specifying the Ministry of Industry and Trade how to replace these sold metals. Another problem I would like to draw attention to is that our state's material reserves, compared to other countries, have a completely inadequate supply of medicines. According to the information available at the moment, only Tamiflu antivirals are available in our state's material reserves and, unlike other countries, such as Poland, there are no other essential medicines available. I think this is a very serious situation and the state simply has a duty to ensure civil preparedness for crisis situations, and this includes being very responsible in the management of state material reserves. The next proposal I would like to put forward concerns the increase in funding for expenditure in the area of security of the Office of the Government's tasks, in particular in the area of adaptation to digital society. We all know that at this point we are going through a major change, such as the onset of an industrial revolution of 4.0, and that these are the questions that we as people, as citizens, our companies, our state, our municipalities, our cities, have to prepare for. And it should be stressed that the Czech Republic is far behind in this area, from the point of view of the digital economy index and society, from all EU Member States, it is in the 17th place, which is not very good. I would like to stress that although the transition to digital society can affect the state only from one third, and therefore a great burden will lie on companies too, it is very important, because those companies that have actually strengthened this area of the economy and society are thus growing significantly faster economically and it has an impact not only on economic growth but also on wage growth, for example, which is in the interests of the Czech Republic. And the last amendment I would like to put forward concerns funding for regional education expenditure, particularly for activities relating to civil education, education for critical thinking, as an instrument which is absolutely essential for our democratic future. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to supporting my proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u97	Thank you. Mr Válek, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u98	Mr President, thank you very much, through your Mr Faltýnek, to speak for a longer time, because he likes to listen to me. Of course, I'm obliged to fulfill my wishes, but only on a limited basis, because after my vocabulary is exhausted, I'm going to have to quit. I would like to imagine a few amendments in this relatively late time. The first has number 3847, and very briefly, it is a strengthening of young doctors. We are debating the fact that doctors are leaving the Czech Republic. They leave for many reasons graduates of medical schools. One is that abroad, of course, they get an easier way to test, with us for two years no workplace yet has accreditation, but they also simply get access to science. The Agency for Health Research has created space for young researchers under the age of 35 to provide grants, relatively cheap grants. Unfortunately, it did not have an increased budget for these grants. And I am, of course, trying to address this minor omission with my amendment and move the funds to the chapter of the Ministry of Health. I understand that not all these amendments have to go through. At least in this way, I would like to draw attention to this problem and, perhaps, next year, if the amendments did not pass, it would appear in the state budget. [[18.40 hours]] The second amendment has number 3849 and concerns de facto such a slightly illogical matter from my point of view. Discount on fare is certainly something that many people can please. On the other hand, there must be something to ride to get that discount. So if the railway lines are dwindling and the lines aren't electrified, then it's hard to use the fare discount. For this reason, in my amendment, I will move some of the money from the fare discount to the electrification of the lines, in those regions where the railway lines have closed recently, the stops are closed, and the lines that previously became backbones cease to be backbones. I think that if these lines could be repaired, put into operation and, by means of my amendment, upgraded, then it is logical that a fare discount should be applied to them. I am ashamed to make a third amendment because it is only 15 million. Crowns. It is Amendment No 3853. It concerns my heart business - logically, I'm from South Moravia. It concerns the Slavic Epic, when it may be possible to move the Slavic Epic, now perhaps finally, to the castle in Moravian Krumlov, and I think that the exhibition that will be associated with it and the celebration of our great painter Alfons Mucha in the presence of his descendants will not only be a Krumlov issue, but it will be a national issue, I hope that many politicians and ministers who have participated in this very good step will attend it. And that is why I think it would be good to support this exhibition and the amount of 15 million. CZK, which is my Amendment 3853. I believe that the Slavic Epic will bring a revival of tourism for Krumlov if it was there, and there was practically 40 to 60 thousand. tourists every year, moreover nearby Ivančice are the birthplace of Alfons Mucha, so both of these things will certainly lead to an increase in employment, more jobs, and therefore it is quite logical that I transfer the money from the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, from the field of active employment policy. After all, I think if I'm watching the electronic disability shift, it won't be. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be able to apply nothing next year because it will address problems related to electronic disability, which will totally keep him busy and paralyzed. The next amendment is entitled "No'. 3852 and again it is a variant solution of AZV and support of young researchers. Then I come to the last amendments. It is Amendment 3850, which is again aimed at supporting young researchers and supporting the AZV chapter, which concerns grants to doctors under 35 years of age. I am giving these alternative amendments for this reason so that you can consider which chapter is the best way to move the money. I found three suitable ones. Finally, I come to the last two amendments, 3851 and 3848, both of which concern the Falcons. Very quickly and briefly, I will explain why it was the falcon halls. Sokol houses are specific in that they are simultaneously cultural and sports facilities. Therefore, if they apply for subsidies from one of the two ministries, they can never be covered in full. The falcon halls are rotting for these reasons. And since in many places the falcon halls remained one of the last centres where not only sports activities are organized, but also cultural activities and social activities, I took the liberty of putting these two amendments, which are relatively low. These are variant designs of 16 300 thousand. Crowns. Well, that's it for me. I hope that at least one of these amendments will have a kind eye for both coalition and opposition Members and some votes, or will be considered in the next state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u99	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u100	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will allow myself to sign up for four amendments in total. The first one is listed under number 3888. It's actually similar to the issue that my colleague here was talking about, through you, Langšádlová. This is the unfortunate and untrustworthy approach of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to state strategic reserves. Indeed, it is not a credible power when the government plans to sell strategic stocks of metals to a total of 2.2 billion. CZK, of which to plan revenue in the state budget for 2020 of 600 million. CZK and say that the supplies are obsolete and that they should be modernised, while not allocating the money for the modernisation, but disbanding them in the current expenditure of the state budget for various subsidies, investment incentives, etc. So I am trying, in accordance with the resolution of the Economic Committee, to correct this and to increase the expenditure framework from the chapter of the State Material Reserves Administration by the same amount of 600 million. CZK in such a way as to ensure a far more efficient and cost-effective treatment of both funds and strategic reserves, so that the administration can actually decide whether it is the most appropriate moment for the possible sale of such metals not only because the government is pushing them to have an income in the state budget, but to really be in line with the strategic interests of the Czech Republic. Because reserves, Madam Secretary, are to be formed at a time of economic growth, not to be disposed of, sold, and spent. So that would be the first amendment under number 3888. The second amendment I wish to sign up for is under number 3930. This is about helping and supporting the activities of voluntary firefighters in the Czech Republic by 500 million. CZK for the account of the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in subsidies for renewable energy sources, where the 27 billion. He's really tall. I believe that voluntary fire brigades ensure both the safety of our residents, especially in municipalities, so they contribute to social life in small municipalities and deserve our support. Therefore, I suggest helping them with a sum of CZK half a billion to purchase and restore their technical equipment, so that they can ensure their security function in the municipalities in particular. I think he deserves this for his activity, for his time and for his activity. Another amendment, which I have mentioned under number 3887, is the transfer within the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment, from non-investment contributions to contributions to organizations, namely the ČHMÚ, by a sum of 10 million. CZK and moving to improve the state of nature and landscape by the 10 miles. CZK, because I believe that even in our municipalities we need good care of the greenery in the interior of the municipalities. There was a subroutine within the Ministry of Environment, within the framework of this programme, which ensured planting of trees, for example, in small municipalities. Unfortunately, in 2014, the subroutine was no longer active, and I think we could reactivate it. And that is what this means. And the last amendment, which is under number 3931, is a joint amendment with Mr Bauer, who came up with this idea, and it is a transfer under chapter MPSV 1 billion. to finance social services. You will remember, colleagues, that there have been heated discussions here during this year and in the Committee on Social Policy and here on the model of funding for social services. And we believe that the 1 billion we found in the chapter of the MPSV itself would help fund social services. Specifically, we can see the reserves at 700 miles. CZK in the indicator of the benefits of assistance in material distress and 300 million. CZK under active employment policy. And that's the one billion. CZK just to finance social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u101	Thank you. Member Jan Hrnčíř. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly repeat the position of the SPD movement. I would like to say that we cannot support the draft budget for 2020. Of course, there are a number of reasons, but the main reason is that the draft budget is bad, because at a time of high economic growth, tax increases, the deficit is just 40 billion. Wrong. Our Members have tabled several amendments in the amount of about 5.5 billion. The crowns that are introduced here gradually. I would, if I may, apply to the two amendments that I have tabled. The first is the amendment under No. 3578. The purpose of this amendment is to transfer funds intended primarily for the promotion of joint education, so-called inclusion, to the chapter of special education, where they will be far more beneficial for the education and education of children. The second amendment is the amendment under 'No'. 3668 and the purpose of this amendment is to transfer funds from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, which are intended to promote equal opportunities for women and men, i.e. to support gender, to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is intended to support the employment of citizens with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u103	Thank you. Member Jan zahradník. Mr. Skopeček will be ready. I will read the apologies: Mrs Helena Válková apologizes today from 18.30 to the end of the working day for working reasons, I have already read the apology of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, today from 18.20 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, and Mr Špičák from 18.30 to the end of the sitting day for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u104	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my performance by signing up for House documents under No. 3868 and 3869, under which my two amendments relating to the State budget for 2020. I must say that my proposals are not marked by the large amount of funds that I propose to move. Basically, it's kind of my traditional proposal that concerns a sum of 20 miles. koruna, which, of course, is a small amount. It's actually because of the entire state budget of a hundred perm. Given the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment relating to my changes, it is a hundred percent. The first proposal deals with the financing of non-governmental non-profit organisations. If we look at the draft budget in the text section, we actually see the only item that relates to support for non-profit organisations, and that is in the expenditure block 3.4 in the expenditure heading 3.4.2 Environmental protection activities - the non-investment subsidy item for non-profit organisations, which makes the proposal 20 million. Crowns. However, if we look in more detail at Table 3, which contains an overview of the expenditure of Chapter 315, we see further financial amounts there in detail. There is always a comparison of how these activities were financed in last year's proposal, in last year's state budget, and how it is this year. For example, the aid of § 374 900, item 5223, is 50 mil. - non-investment transfers of companies, item 5229, non-investment transfers to non-profit organisations - 2.8 million, item 6322, investment transfers of companies - 71 million. CZK, mostly to protect species and habitats. These amounts are not included in the draft budget for 2020. Also § 374 900, item 5222, non-investment transfers of associations - 22 mil. CZK, other activities in the environment. The same amount is then for 2020. Next paragraph and item 5169 purchase of other services - 10 mil. CZK, environmental education, the same amount is also in the proposal for 2020. One last example. Just the amount under heading 5222 in the said expenditure heading 3.4.2, probably non-investment transfers of companies - 20 million. koruna - other environmental matters. In 2020, this amount is again shown as the same - 20 million. So we're going to total 52 miles. CZK, of which only one amount is given and justified in detail in the text section. I therefore propose that from the said expenditure heading 3.4.2, which is in the expenditure block 3.4 Other environmental activities, item 3429 of non-investment subsidies be reduced by 10 million. Crowns. Where do I suggest we move this money? Traditionally, I'm making a proposal to move them to spending block 3.1 Nature and landscape protection, spending heading 3.1.1 and programme item 115 170 support for the restoration of natural landscape functions. Here, I suggest we increase the amount by 10 miles. Crowns. This item for this programme is actually proposed by 10 million this year. More than last year, that's 40 miles. CZK, but given the importance of adaptation measures for announced climate change, the amount is very small, and given that the other billion items with which the budget is available are intended for other projects, for other programmes, so it seems to me that the measures that contribute to improving the natural functions of watercourses, the restoration or formation of wetlands and pools, the construction, reconstruction or reconstruction of water reservoirs in nature of a close nature are simply underfunded. So I propose these amounts by 10 million. strengthen. Why did I just choose the source for the nonprofits? As I said before, there are other items hidden in the budget, other amounts, and the programme according to which money is to be distributed in part, I mean money under heading 3429 non-investment subsidies to non-profits, in the exhaustion of the possibilities that the non-profit sector simply offers, i.e. in the order of about 50 active non-profits, which could be submitted in a year, let's say, on average, two projects, the range there is given from about 30 to 200 thousand. Kroner, I'll say 100 grand in order. The crown, just the money will be fine if it's about the 10 miles. humiliated. [[19.00 hours]] In fact, we support nonprofits, whether in an open way, as stated in the text section or somewhere inside the budget. Many of this money is spent on Godly environmental education. In doing so, of course, environmental education or environmental education should be a natural primary part of school education. In fact, these nonprofits, which have their own political agenda, are the only organisations that are allowed access to schools, because other political entities, of course, are strictly prohibited from accessing schools. Politics has a school door closed, it's not supposed to be in schools, we say. I think it's right. But why finance green activists of non-governmental nonprofits, who then spread the ideology of environmentalism, their green religion, in our schools? That's my first suggestion. The second proposal concerns actually strengthening the means to compensate for the damage suffered by municipalities in whose cadastral territories national parks are located. Specifically, I am referring to the municipalities that are in the Šumava National Park, because the whole is located in the cadastral territory of the municipalities and those municipalities are actually part of the national park. For example, the municipality of Modrava has 7,500 hectares of forest and tax evasion in its cadastral, or only 321 hectares are compensated for tax deficiencies. Kašperské Hory, a village with its 5,000 hectares of forest on the territory of the Šumava National Park, hardly manages the land. For example, 15,000 were harvested in the last two years. The cubic meters of forced logging to protect crops in the national park, while the subsidies they receive from the Ministry of Agriculture, for this there are CZK 2,800,000, i.e. a very inadequate, ridiculous amount. Therefore, I propose to strengthen the expenditure block 3.4, heading 3.4.2, environmental protection activities - item 3.4.10 - compensation of the losses of municipalities in the territory of national parks by 10 million. Kč. And where do you get the money for that? I propose to humiliate other environmental activities in the same chapter in the expenditure block 3.4, expenditure heading 3.4.2., environmental protection activities - entry 3.4.2.11 - transfers to international organisations by 10 million. Kč. On this item, the contributions to international organisations we pay each year are subsidized by a different amount. In 2017, there were about 218 million, then it was reduced by 50 million. CZK, then increased again by 20 miles. Kč. Every year here from this place, I call on the Ministry of the Environment to do a detailed analysis of these contributions, what we pay them for, who and what effect it has for us, whether some of these contracts would not be good enough to terminate and save the money. It hasn't happened here yet. That's why I suggest that this item can take a 10-mile humiliation. CZK, and these I propose to move to an item that will help municipalities to endure the difficulties that arise from their property being located in the territory of the national park. These are my two suggestions, ladies and gentlemen. I have already signed up for the House documents under which they were deposited, and I beg you in the third reading to support my proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u105	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Have a good night. We will proceed in the debate with Mr Jan Skopeček's speech. Jiří Mihola will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u106	Thank you for the floor. Good evening. I'll try to be very short. As part of my second reading, I will apply to the four amendments that I have put into the system. It is Amendment 3904. That's where I'm reducing the amount of 400 miles. for export aid expenditure in favour of Chapter 396 State debt, in a specific indicator of government debt service. I think that subsidies to business operators distort the market environment and limit price signals. The price is the basic, most important information in the economy and is created correctly only on the basis of spontaneous price developments resulting from the interaction between trading parties, and this leads to an effective allocation of scarce resources and makes society richer. Giving subsidies to market operators is contrary to this logic, contrary to the logic of an economy based on the free market. In my opinion, the State should not further support selected companies financially from taxpayers' money at the expense of all other economic operators. It's unfair. First, someone has to make the money, and the state will take it away, and then, in addition, redistribute it to other business entities, creating unfair competition in the market environment in the economy. So that's my amendment under number 1904. [[correct 3904]] The second is Amendment 3905. That's where I propose to reduce the amount of 5.5 billion. CZK - specifically in the expenditure area expenditure of the central body of the Ministry of Transport - compensation of fare discounts. Again, it is in favour of Chapter 396 of the State debt, in a specific indicator of government debt service. I know it's probably going to be evergreen for the fare discount, and a whole bunch of my colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies, not just from the Civic Democrats' Club. But I couldn't help myself. I really think that the state should eventually redistribute taxpayers' money only in order to help some disadvantaged groups, people who, not by their own guilt, are in some socially burdensome situation and need assistance from other taxpayers in solidarity. But when we look at the principle of the operation of fare discounts, we see that there is no such logic, that it is not directed towards people who need it, for example, from a low income point of view or from the fact that they are otherwise disadvantaged. On the contrary, this is directed at anyone who fulfils, for example, the pensioner's conditions, regardless of what other income or property situation he is in. Likewise, students, whether from rich or poor families, are subsidized by other taxpayers who may not be using mass transportation at all, so they are subsidized by transport. It doesn't make any sense. It is really spending taxpayers' money without any social aspect, without any test of property or income situation. And from this point of view, it's a waste of taxpayers' money. The next amendment is an amendment that I have inserted into the system and is under number 3906. This is an amendment that seeks to reduce certain types of operating expenditure to selected chapters, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The total amount for these four chapters is CZK 1 282 189 260, which I am heading again to Chapter 396 State debt, in a specific indicator of government debt service. [[19.10 hours]] I think it is clear from the various theories of bureaucracy that individual state institutions, central authorities, are trying to maximize their budget regardless of whether it brings positive or negative convergence to society. It is simply a principle that applies to all public institutions and their management, that it is simply their motive to increase their office, increase their budget, increase the number of officials, increase the number of agendas, and I think it is necessary to go against this trend, and therefore, as I said, in these four chapters, I propose a reduction in operating expenditure in the specific items that are mentioned in my amendment by 3 percent each, so overall it does, once again, an amount of CZK 1,282 189 260. The last amendment, which I propose separately outside the comprehensive amendment by the Civic Democrats' Club, is an amendment that I have put into the system and received the number assigned to me by 3907. Within this amendment, I am reducing expenditure chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by 400 million. CZK, namely expenditure on grants for strategic investment actions, and, as in previous amendments, I propose that this amount be transferred to the expenditure chapter 396 of the State debt in a specific indicator of the government debt service. The argument why not support it is an attempt to reduce the amount that is provided for investment incentives. And the logic why not to provide investment incentives is the same as in the first case: in the export promotion, investment incentives simply contribute to unfair competition, when, first, other taxpayers, or companies and entrepreneurs have to succeed in a competitive market, they have to make money, they have to realise the profit from which they pay to the state of the tax, which will then redistribute these taxes to companies of other, often companies of profitable, large corporations, which, in my view, do not need such assistance, and vice versa, even more distort the structure of our economy in favour of large international corporations, and it goes to the detriment of particularly small and medium-sized companies, which will touch on any subsidies or incentives much more complex than it is for these major corporations. For this reason, in order to reduce the level of distortion of the market environment, so as not to limit important price signals across the economy, I propose that investment incentives be reduced by exactly 400 million. These were my four amendments. I have already presented the criticism of the budget as a whole at first reading, and I will certainly return to this criticism also in the third reading. I have now presented my amendments and I consider it sufficient. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u107	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. Before I give the floor with the priority right of Mrs Adamová Pekarová, I will read two apologies to the President of the House, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek and Mr Jiří Kobza. My colleague Mihola will meet with priority rights. Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u108	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, given the advanced hour, very clearly, briefly. Our priorities are education, education in general, which is why this is also reflected in the amendments that we are proposing. This is also the case in drug prevention, because we consider this to be a key area that the government greatly underestimates in its proposed budget. I will therefore present my five amendments. The first concerns education salaries. We really want to keep the promise given to teachers so that they can increase their salaries by 15 percent. Therefore, I propose that the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports should be increased by 5.5 billion in a specific indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed by organisations. Crowns. In practice, this will lead to an increase in wages of approximately CZK 3,500 and thus a partial approach to the commitment made by the government itself. Another area that, in our view, is not sufficiently taken into account in the budget, is that there is an increase in teachers' assistants' schools and, of course, schools are not inflatable, and the spaces needed for them are thus becoming scarce. It is necessary for schools to have the opportunity to expand such premises, and we also want to have a better financial evaluation of teachers' assistants themselves. Therefore, again in this chapter 333 I propose that expenditure be increased by 2 billion in the same indicator. in order to increase the salaries of teachers' assistants and by an amount of 1 billion. for the purpose of building facilities for teachers' assistants. The Ministry of Education chapter also concerns my third amendment. I therefore propose to increase expenditure on the drug policy programme. The aim of this programme is to support the prevention of measures leading to the reduction of social and health risks associated with the use of legal but also illegal addictive substances. The reduction is due to the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic, more precisely planned expenditure on business trips in the Czech Republic and abroad. By reducing the budget to half of the planned amount, there will be at least a partial reduction in the negative impact of the trips the President is organising and on which he does not represent the Czech Republic in accordance with government policy. The drug policy programme is then covered by another amendment. I therefore propose to compensate for the annual reduction in financial support for the fight against addiction by 30 million. Crowns. Without this money for services providing drug prevention, prevention of the transmission of infectious diseases in addicts, contact centres and field programmes, there may not only be an increase in the number of drug addicts, but in particular an increase in the incidence of all related negative phenomena such as various diseases and undesirable socio-economic phenomena. In this case, it is a lower amount of 30 million. and I propose, within the framework of Chapter 335, the Ministry of Health to increase expenditure in this volume in a specific indicator of the drug policy programme. Finally, the last amendment concerns strengthening the financing of the activities of associations that carry out their long-term mission in the area of... specifically, it is in education, it is for the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and its projects, which concern e.g. comments from the current 30-year anniversary of the Velvet Revolution, or for the Czechoslovak Legionary community, which among others. long-term cares for war veterans and presents the history of veterans fighting abroad. These are therefore amounts - for the Czechoslovak community of the legionnaire 3,150,000 in order to ensure the financing of individual care and support of war veterans. This is the same amount for the ÚSTR in order to ensure the financing of the Institute's activities. The strengthening of these two associations is due to a budget reduction for the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters, which has not fulfilled its mission for several years, on the contrary, cooperating with extremists, honouring various controversial persons, former communists, etc., and its leading representative delivers various xenophobic speeches. I think the money will be spent more effectively in other chapters. I still owe the numbers of the amendments, it is 3839, 3840, 3841, 3842 and 3843. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u109	Thank you, ma'am. One more priority right, Mr. Marek the Výborný. My colleague Mihola is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Government, colleagues, I would like to present and justify two amendments to the State Budget Act. The first one is in the system under number 3707 and specifically concerns the fact that I propose an increase in the budget of the specific indicator of Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice, which relates to the salaries of employees in employment other than staff in employment, by an amount of 100 million. Crowns. I propose to translate this by reducing Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into an active employment policy indicator. Again, it's a total reduction of 100 miles. Crowns. [[19.20 hours]] The proposal is simple. In the draft state budget, the government presents a plan of 6.577 billion. etc. expenditure on salaries of staff in employment, excluding staff in service posts, at the Ministry of Justice. In the long term, we are dealing with a situation in which judges and assistants of judges who are usually preparing for the role of judge have significantly lower salaries which do not correspond to the quality requirements of their work, including, by the way, the requirement for education to be achieved by the staff of these posts. That's why I'm suggesting an increase in that indicator of 100 miles. CZK and use these funds to increase the salaries of judicial observers and assistants of judges. If we really want the whole judicial system to work as best as possible, most effectively, I think that this small adjustment really needs to be accepted in the budget. The second proposal, which is read under the number of the House press 3708, concerns actually a similar chapter, which has already been mentioned by my previous speaker, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, which I propose, first, to reduce expenditure in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in the specific indicator of social expenditure, compensation, non-profit and similar organisations, in the indicator, under the heading of the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom by an amount of 5 million. CZK, and vice versa increase expenditure in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the indicator of support for youth activities by an amount of 5 million. Crowns. I want to support the development of leisure activities and organizations such as Scout, Pioneer and others. Taking the concept of youth support for the 2014-2020 period, approved by the Czech Government on 12 May 2014, one of the objectives is to support the development of organisations working in informal and pet education with an emphasis on the quality of education. Support for youth work declined year-on-year until 2012, when this trend managed to reverse, the support in 2014 was still about a third lower than in 2007. Since 2008, the number of applicants applying for financial support in the subsidy and development programmes of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the Youth Department has increased annually. In some organisations, the year-on-year increase in the membership base is up to 10 percent, which means, of course, thousands of new children coming into extracurricular activities. Extracurricular activities also serve for the personal development of these children and the grant title which I dare propose to increase by the amount of 5 million. CZK, it goes into investment, i.e. for the activities that these organizations working with children and youth need for the construction or renovation of clubs, camp bases, various cottages for weekend events etc. In fact, some organizations still have not been able to repair the devastated assets that were transferred by the House from the Children and Youth Fund, to which the assets of the former SMEM were originally transferred. I am convinced that this symbolic aid in the order of just 5 miles. The koruna still makes sense, because take how many camp bases or clubhouses can be repaired for it. And the space where we can get the funds from? I am convinced that the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors has actually moved away from the ideals and values that this organization is shielding itself. Unfortunately, when we look at the speeches of some of the top representatives of this organization, these speeches often move us to the time before 1989. And I am convinced that there is no reason for the State to support such an organization, especially in a situation where the Ministry of the Interior and its reports indicate that it cooperates closely with organisations that are a security risk to the Czech Republic, with organisations that are in contact with extremism and extremist entities. I am convinced that the funds will be spent effectively to support organisations dedicated to our children and young people. Thank you for supporting these two proposals and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u111	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. Mr. Jiří Mihola, Mr. Pavel Plzák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u112	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am prepared, or I have put six amendments into the system, so I will take them one by one with a short commentary, or I will try to do my best. The first amendments concern the field of education. We all know that education, or that, I mean, the vast majority of us say is a priority. I am sure that this is also the best investment in our country's future, and I am not just saying this as a teacher, but many economists say that one crown or one euro, as you like, will be returned to our education six times. So the first amendment is in the system under the number 3890 and concerns the excess wage component, i.e. the non-interest component of wages, which, in the context of this announced, promised increase, should have been higher than it is. So we would like, as KDU-ČSL, to contribute to making it as close as possible to the original promise. So in the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, it is proposed to make changes consisting in increasing expenditure in favour of Chapter 330 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. It is proposed to increase regional education expenditure and directly managed by organisations by 3 billion. CZK, i.e. in Chapter 333 in the section of the summary indicator, increase expenditure by a total of CZK 226 467 000 210 by a total of CZK 3 billion. In the specific indicator section, expenditure will further increase regional education expenditure and directly managed by organisations by 3 billion. koruna, i.e. CZK 161 482 083 817 to be replaced by CZK 164 482 083 817. The increase in expenditure of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is proposed to compensate by reducing the chapter of the state debt by 3 billion. CZK, i.e. in Chapter 396 State debt is proposed in part of the summary indicator to reduce expenditure by a total amount of CZK 43 810 880 286 by a total of CZK 3 billion. In the section of the specific indicator - expenditure to reduce the amount of government debt service - internal debt by 3 billion. Crowns. As far as the argument is concerned, at least briefly. The current pace of raising teachers' salaries does not bring exactly the desired effect that we need. Qualified teachers continue to leave school for better salaries and better working conditions. Teachers who have stopped teaching in the past do not return to school yet. Fresh graduates of teaching faculties do not enter or leave school soon. The main reason for this is undoubtedly that the average salary of the Czech teacher is only 61 percent of the average salary of a university-educated employee in the Czech Republic, which is at least from all OECD countries. I will not give the other examples for shortening, but it is clear that we need to strengthen the non-recent wage component, which will contribute to the motivation of teachers and their better and fair evaluation. I am moving on to my second amendment, which again concerns the Ministry of Education or education as such. It's in the system under number 3891 and it's about the extras for the classroom. Thus, in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, a total of CZK 226 467 000 210 is proposed in the summary indicator section. In the specific indicator section, expenditure will further increase regional education expenditure and directly managed by organisations by 2 billion. Kč. [[19.30 hours]] The increase in expenditure of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is proposed to compensate by reducing the chapter State debt by 2 billion. CZK, i.e. in Chapter 396 State debt is proposed in part of the summary indicator to reduce expenditure indicators by a total amount of CZK 43 810 880 286 by a total of CZK 2 billion. and, in part, the specific expenditure indicator, reduce the government debt operator's internal debt item by 2 billion. CZK for the corresponding amount. As far as argument is concerned, at least a few words. At present, the lower limit is the surcharge for sorting in mainstream schools - the official name is a special surcharge to be precise - only CZK 500 gross per month. The upper limit is CZK 1,300, but the majority of teachers will not reach it because the directors, due to a lack of funding, grant teachers an amount in the lower half of the possible range. When converted into days, the class teacher gets only CZK 25 a day for his work in addition to a teacher who doesn't have a classroom. When converted to an hour, it's only 25 CZK. A teacher's work will require an average of about 20 hours of extra work a month. When converted into a pupil it is again an average of CZK 25 per month per pupil in class. Again, we could compare the situation in the countries of the European Union, but also with the neighbouring Slovakia. For interest, in Slovakia the number of pupils per teacher is significantly lower than in our country, it is 15 pupils. On the contrary, the surcharge for classrooms is three times higher than in the Czech Republic. So the current level of the premium for sorting in the Czech Republic is totally demotivating. You all know well that here over a year, if it hasn't been a year and a half, the KDU-ČSL President's proposal for Marek the Výborný, and yet this proposal hasn't even gotten to the order of discussion, so it seems that many of this problem doesn't burn, but the teacher certainly does. I would also like to support this proposal. As for another school proposal, it is in the system under number 3892 and concerns the increase of so-called ONIVs, other non-investment expenditures, by CZK 500 million. In Chapter 333 the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is proposed to increase expenditure by a total of CZK 226 460 000 210 by a total of CZK 500 million. CZK, in part specific indicators - expenditure further increase the expenditure item of regional education and directly managed by organisations by 500 million. Kč. The increase in expenditure of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is proposed to compensate by reducing the chapter State debt by 500 million. CZK, i.e. in Chapter 396 State debt is proposed in part of the summary indicator to reduce expenditure indicators by a total amount of CZK 43 810 880 286 by a total of CZK 500 million. CZK and in part specific indicators - expenditure reduce the entry of the service of the state type of internal debt by 500 million. Kč. Again, to justify a few sentences. Currently, ONIV pays, among other things, compensation for the days of the illness that have increased after the cancellation of the period, for the first 14 days for all school employees, DVPP courses and travel allowances for teachers. However, these items have been added to it retrospectively. Originally ONIV served to buy textbooks and aids for pupils. However, this amount is still being reduced to the detriment of the payment of compensation for periods of incapacity due to illness, as teachers' salaries have increased significantly over the past ten years and thus compensations with them. In addition to the above items, the ONIV also covers the swimming training of pupils and other matters. Ideally the amount of ONIV should be double, my proposal at least partially complements the expected outages in school financing. So much for shortening at least the most important arguments. I am moving on to the fourth amendment. This time it concerns the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is an amendment in the system under number 3784. In the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, it is proposed to make changes consisting of a move of 50 million. CZK within the specific indicators of expenditure from the indicator other expenditure on the performance of tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in favour of a specific indicator of humanitarian aid of CZK 10 million. CZK in order to address the humanitarian and health crisis in the area of northeastern Syria, in favour of a specific Syria renewal indicator of CZK 20 million. CZK and in favour of a specific stabilisation and reconstruction indicator of Iraq of CZK 20 million. Kč. I think this proposal here is clear where it's going, or we're generally applying for humanitarian aid. We stress more particularly in connection with migration that we want to help especially in the affected places themselves, so that the aid is the most effective and the best and comes to the most necessary. These specific indicators of humanitarian aid, the renewal of Syria and the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq are probably the most important tools the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to address the situation in the Middle East. The Middle East must be a priority for the area of Czech foreign policy. We have historically excellent links here and we have a unique opportunity to use these links for the reconstruction of the entire region, which has been liberated from the domination of the so-called Islamic State. As regards the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq, the Czech Republic needs to participate as actively as possible in the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq. Currently proposed budget of 30 million. The CZK is completely inadequate and is rather a drop in the imaginary sea. From the past, we have exceptionally good relations in this area, and we need to continue to establish, build, and thus be a mediator and partner for the other states involved in the reconstruction of Iraq. We therefore propose an increase in aid to 50 miles. Kč. This increase will enable more effective assistance and the possibility of involving the Czech Republic in more projects. On the issue of humanitarian aid. The recent attack by the Turkish army on northern Syria, administered by Syrian democratic forces, has once again significantly aggravated the situation in the region dominated by the Kurd. Another humanitarian and health crisis has thus arisen in the region, which has hit the already severely tested civilian population of northeastern Syria. Humanitarian organizations, such as the Red Crescent or Doctors Without Borders, are desperately trying to provide at least basic health services for disabled civilians. That is why we are proposing an increase in humanitarian aid by 20 miles. CZK, which will be intended for the Red Crescent to cope with the crisis that arose in northeastern Syria as a result of the Turkish invasion. And to the resources at the end. The source for this increase should be the indicator of other expenditure on the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely budget heading 5169 purchase of other services, which increased between 2019 and 2020, by a hard to believe 400 million. CZK, which is almost 40 percent. It is incomprehensible that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is unable and willing to specify these services, and cannot be defended by the impression that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is creating a kind of hidden reserve. [[19.40 hours]] The fifth amendment is inserted into the system under number 3781. It concerns the Ministry of Culture or culture as such, if you will. In the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, it is proposed to make changes consisting in a move of 100 million. CZK within specific indicators of expenditure from the State Cinema Fund indicator, subsidies for film incentives, in favour of a specific indicator of the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, public services of museums - programmes for protection and care of cultural goods of 60 million. CZK and in favour of a specific indicator of supporting the development and restoration of a material technical base of regional cultural facilities of 40 million. Kč. Shortly again, the reasoning. The public service indicator of non-state museums is associated with an indicator for the restoration of cultural monuments and allocation of 761 million. it seems dignified. But even here is a year-on-year decline of 7 percent to restore sights. However, for the standardisation of museum services, the protection of the movable cultural fund and the creation of exhibitions and exhibitions, i.e. programmes for the protection and care of cultural goods, is really allocated only 75 miles. Kč. This appropriation is intended to cover the participation of some 250 museums and galleries with collections registered in the central register of collections, as this entry entitles them to submit an application in the subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic. So the support, I'll make it very brief. Or which grant programs they're dealing with. Support for standardised public services of museums and galleries, support for exhibition and exhibition projects, support for educational activities of museums - I would like to stress this in particular, the motivation for this, the support of so-called. museum pedagogy, if I sum it up in a few words. An integrated system for the protection of movable cultural heritage. Furthermore, I believe that it would be appropriate to increase the indicator of promoting the development and restoration of a materially technical base for regional cultural facilities, namely sub-programme 134D221, the promotion of reproduction of the assets of regional cultural facilities, churches and religious societies, where 260 miles are proposed. CZK and in the commentary itself stated that the allocated amount of funds would not allow the requirements in the field of preparation and implementation of a large-scale project. I suggest we increase the allocation by 40 miles. Kč. For the above reasons, I propose moving within the chapter towards equal support for non-state cultural institutions across the Republic and developing high-quality regional culture and training programmes for museum institutions. As part of the transfer, I propose to shorten the expenditure for grants for film incentives, which I do not consider to be such an urgent matter as ensuring the proper functioning and development of regional cultural institutions. Finally, my last amendment will be found in the system under number 3894. It concerns the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. In Chapter 398 of the General Treasury, the specific indicator of the government's budget reserve is 4 billion. 870 miles. 471 thousand. 508 CZK reduces by 100 mil. CZK 4 miles. 770 miles. 471 thousand. 508 CZK. And in Chapter 361, i.e. the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, the overall indicator of expenditure increases by a total of 100 million. CZK 6 billion. 613 miles. 390 thousand. CZK 450 and the specific indicator of research infrastructure increases by CZK 100 million. 6 billion. 613 miles. 390 thousand. 450 CZK. This increase will be reflected in the relevant chapter indicators in the draft State Budget Act for 2020. And a brief statement of reasons. We all know or stress that the promotion of science is one of those ways where the Czech Republic can break through and where its strong potential is, therefore the need to support it and, in particular, to gain new young talents, young scientists and scientists by supporting it, so that they do not go from science to more lucrative, financially lucrative positions. So I will briefly add that the increase in the funds of the Academy of Sciences will be used mainly to strengthen the potential of the AV21 strategy, facilitate the transfer of research results to the application sphere, expand cooperation with public sector institutions and state administration, closer links between the institutes of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and public universities, evaluation of the activities of the Institutes of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic reflected in differentiated funding. Further to acquiring and maintaining the best brains for Czech science, supporting talented young scientists, restoring instrumental equipment and others. So, ladies and gentlemen, honourable representatives of the government and Mr President, these are my amendments. I would like to ask everyone, even at the moment absent, to support these amendments. And thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u113	That was Mr. Jiří Mihola. Let me read you an apology. From 19 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes for medical reasons. We continue with Mr Pavel Plzák's speech, and Lubomír Španěl will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, my amendment concerns a subject which has already been mentioned several times today, and my last Honored Speaker. It concerns the preservation and restoration of culturally historical monuments. I was prepared to justify this proposal, but I was asked to limit myself to dry numbers, although these numbers are making me a little dizzy since I heard everything here today. So briefly to the numbers. In the budget chapter of the Ministry of Culture, an amount of 681 million is earmarked for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments. At the same time, in the same chapter in the budget of the State Cinematography Fund, the amount of EUR 800 million is budgeted for film incentives. CZK and according to the information I have, the reserves should be increased by another 500 million. The crown, if that's true. If that is true, if that is true, then the total amount of the film incentives would be 1 billion. 300 miles. CZK, and I would also like to mention that individual regions and the capital city of Prague also have their own film incentives. I wanted to deal with the activities of the State Cinema Fund and its management, which my fellow economist and I discussed on the basis of the study of individual annual reports. Just dry numbers. The fund isn't doing so bad. Current account status as of 31 December of each year, here I have discussed. In 2012, it was 230 miles. In 2018, the account is already 2 billion. 209 million, with an economic result of cumulation in 2012 minus 51 million, last year at 31 December 428 million. So we have 681 miles here. For the restoration of monuments and we have a billion 300 miles. on the production of audiovisual works, while the proponents of these film incentives often argue that filmmakers bring jobs to our country and spend money on goods and services. I would like to say that the restoration of monuments also brings a number of jobs and that future visitors of these monuments will surely spend on services and goods. [[19.50 hours]] So we can choose: do we want to support more the restoration of the monuments and our cultural historical heritage, which we want to leave to our other generations, or do we want to support the production of films, the production of series that may arise in our territory, but Prague often appears in them not as Prague, but as Vienna or as Paris? Moreover, these audiovisual works eventually end up in an archive somewhere after they go through the cinemas and televisions. I simply choose the first option, which is why my amendment is - within the budget of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, funds of 400 million are being transferred. CZK from specific indicators State Fund of Cinematography and in this subsidy for film incentives to specific indicators of the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, public services of museums and in this programme for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic. Thank you. I hope you will accept my arguments as reasonable and support my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u115	I thank Mr Pavel Plzák. Now, Mr Lubomír Španěl, Mr Lukáš Kolářík will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby apply to our amendment, which I submit together with my colleague Monika Jarošová and which is registered under number 3804 in the system. We're suggesting we take 10 miles. CZK from the budget of the Ombudsman's Office, Chapter 309,, and to transfer this amount to the Ministry of the Interior's budget, Chapter 314, where it would be used to prevent crime. I'm not gonna read the whole explanatory report, time's already progressed, and it's in your system. In short, I will just present our amendment. The Ombudsman's priority is to protect our citizens from, say, the will of the authorities. More state institutions and non-profit organisations are involved in promoting equal treatment and protection against discrimination. There is no need for taxpayers' money to be spent unnecessarily on the same activity. By moving these funds to prevent crime, money will be used more effectively. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u117	Thank you. Mr Plzák is reporting with a factual comment to supplement his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u118	I apologize to everyone, I forgot to sign up for my amendment, which, as House document number 3790, was put into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u119	Thank you. Mr. Lukáš Kolářík will now prepare Marek Novák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u120	Thank you for the floor, good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to House document 3817, which is a surprising amendment to the Government Act on the State Budget. This proposal reduces the expenditure of Chapter 396 of the State debt by 80 million. and raises money in Chapter 378 of the National Cyber Security Authority also by 80 million. There is a detailed explanation in this House document, and I may just say very briefly what leads me to this. It's for three reasons. The first one is personnel. Of course, cyber security cannot work without top people. Today, it happens very often that the best brains we have go abroad for good offers, which is why I think it would be good to evaluate these people, because without top people, it really doesn't work. The second thing that leads me to do is invest. The National Cyber Security Authority is quite a new office, and it does not have appropriate reserves, nor does it have its infrastructure, which it still shares with the National Security Authority, and therefore it needs to be strengthened so that it can tear away so that it can really equip its hardware and ensure its cyber security service well. The third of the things that lead me to do this are the cost of services. Unfortunately, the Authority did not receive these funds from the Digital Czech Republic. It is therefore not possible to build an educational portal, scrubbing centre or anti-fishing and testing and educational applications at this time, which is very important. You know, maybe yesterday, there was some information in the BIS report. I really think that these different wars are no longer being waged by conventional conventional rifles and weapons, but they are really wars in cyberspace and the importance of our government systems and critical information infrastructure are really important. This office would take this small increase in the form of 80 miles. I deserved it. Thank you for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u121	Thank you and the next performer is Mr Marek Novák, Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, nice evening, dear colleagues. Allow me to present to you the proposal for the transfer of funds in the state budget, which I have prepared in cooperation with my colleague Monika Jarošová. Firstly, we propose an increase in expenditure in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, an increase in the cross-cutting indicator of the social prevention and crime prevention programme by CZK 20,360 000. Secondly, the reduction of expenditure in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of Interior, the reduction of the cross-cutting indicator of expenditure on research, development and innovation. This proposal is registered in the system as House document 3787 and I hereby formally subscribe to it. There is a high social and media tolerance of addictive substances in the Czech Republic, health, social and criminogenic risks are downplayed. The latest European school study on alcohol and other drugs shows, among other things, that in the Czech Republic the availability of addictive substances is seen as one of the largest in Europe. The Czech Republic is the largest prevalence of marijuana use in Europe. The number of problem drug users is estimated to increase year on year. Registered crime has reported a year-on-year increase in the number of perpetrators of drug offences detected in the last six years. Drugs have a great influence on other criminalities, including drug-induced commission, with the motivation to secure drugs or resources for them. Police The Czech Republic focuses primarily on raising the legal awareness of target groups in the field of general primary drug prevention. To this end in past years has developed and professionally guarantees a follow-up program That's the law, buddy. It is a direct part of the concept project Revolution Train, which is aimed at preventing the risks of dealing with addictive substances and which has been supported by the Police of the Czech Republic for a long time. In order to create conditions for increasing legal awareness throughout the Czech Republic, the Police of the Czech Republic are currently preparing its own programme, which will be available to police officers in places where the overall concept of the Revolution Train project cannot be used. This programme includes not only direct participation of preventists from the Police of the Czech Republic, but also direct cooperation with cities and municipalities through municipal and municipal police. The transferred funds will thus be able to use the Ministry of the Interior for the concept of primary drug prevention, which will be built on the activities of the Police of the Czech Republic, with its interference with the follow-up activities of self-government and the Revolution Train project. Finally, let me state that the project This is the law, my friend is very positively perceived from the school methodology of prevention, school psychologists and primary school teachers. This feedback strengthens me in the belief that the funds invested in the primary crime prevention project are thus effectively used. I am also asking you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u123	Thank you, Mr Marek Novák. A colleague named Onderka is absent, he will be placed at the end of our program. Now, Mrs Lenka Kozlová, Mrs Golasowská will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u124	Thank you. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to apply to the amendments to the Government Bill on the State Budget, press number 605, which concern Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture. The first has number 3834 and concerns the programme of the public information service of libraries, which is situated within the specific indicator of cultural service, the promotion of live art. This is the main subsidy programme for support of around 6 500 libraries operating in the Czech Republic, in which the draft state budget for next year is calculated with only CZK 38 million. Our network of libraries is one of the largest in the world, and it is often the only form of cultural community life in smaller municipalities. The vast majority of these libraries are financed from municipal budgets, which are already so burdened and are unable to fully cover the needs of libraries. The State is to have a central support function and a methodological leadership, which it cannot perform at its best with such low resources. Libraries need to be innovative, use modern technologies, buy new titles, etc. If they do not, they become unattractive. [[Noise in the hall.]] The rich networks of our libraries should be appreciated and encouraged to move to a qualitatively higher level. Therefore, in accordance with the approximation strategy of the Ministry of Culture, we require an increase of funds in the programme of public information service libraries to CZK 100 million. The proposed amount of CZK 61.8 million is recommended to be transferred from the expenditure chapter 334 by the Ministry of Culture, in the relevant specific indicator of the contribution organisation established by the Ministry of Culture. The next is the amendment to press number 605 recorded under number 3835. Within the specific indicator of cultural service and the promotion of live art, there is a programme to support professional theatres, permanent professional symphony orchestras and singing ensembles. These permanent bodies have long faced problems in funding. Small salaries and existential uncertainty cannot go hand in hand with the desirable development of these representatives of living culture. We have the worst budgetary situation since 2016. CZK 130 million is prepared for 2020, with support for this programme at 160 million between 2017 and 2019. The approximation strategy envisages more than CZK 200 million for this programme. The Ministry of Culture itself considers this programme to be underfunded and adds that, in line with the concept of promoting art for the years 2015 to 2020, there should be a gradual increase in funding. However, this does not correspond to the amount of allocated funds for this year, which is why I am asking for an increase of 35 million for this programme. I recommend moving the proposed amount of 35 million from the expenditure chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, in the relevant specific indicator of the contribution organisation established by the Ministry of Culture. The amendment to print number 605 recorded under number 3836 concerns conservation care. Under the budget heading, the Programme for the Rescue and Restoration of Cultural Monuments, which forms part of a specific indicator of the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments of the public service of museums. There was a drop of CZK 51 million compared to last year. We can fall into a trap in the coming years with an ill-considered concept in the financing of restoration of monuments, because from 2021, the European Union's new budget period will reduce its support from European funds for the preservation of cultural heritage to 2021 to 2027. At a time when the expected rapid decline in the financing of monuments from European Union funds is expected, we consider reducing the cost of restoring cultural goods from the state budget irresponsible. That's why I'm demanding an increase to the level of last year's condition. The proposed amount of CZK 51 million is recommended to be transferred from the expenditure chapter 334 by the Ministry of Culture, in the relevant specific indicator of the contribution organisation established by the Ministry of Culture. Another amendment to press number 635 with number 3837 focuses on increasing support in the programme for the renewal of technical facilities of regional institutions. To this end, a specific indicator is intended to support the development and renewal of the material technical foundations of regional cultural facilities. It is focused primarily on building cultural infrastructure in regions and restoring the material technical base of regional institutions whose founder is not the Ministry of Culture. For this year there are 260 million crowns. Building cultural infrastructure in regions and modernising their equipment is an important prerequisite for the continuous development of museums, galleries and other cultural facilities. A similar programme is also intended for state contribution organisations, in which CZK 905 million is allocated for 2020, which is CZK 50 million more than last year. We understand the need for the technical development of these institutions, but there is clear disproportion between the support of several state contribution organisations and the suffering regional institutions, which are very often faced with insufficient funding from their founders, whose budgets are already very tight. The proposed amount of CZK 50 million is recommended to be transferred from the expenditure chapter 334 by the Ministry of Culture, in the relevant specific indicator of the contribution organisation established by the Ministry of Culture. I would also like to add to that: We propose to move the finance for the amendments mentioned above within the chapter already mentioned by the Ministry of Culture, which is intended for contribution organisations. These large institutions will swallow a substantial proportion of the Ministry of Culture's budget each year, with the amount of funds allocated to them increased by 60 per cent from 2015. This leads to further opening of scissors between large cities and regions to which negligible amounts flow. After deduction of the dictatorial expenditure on churches, the share of the contribution organisations established by the Ministry of Culture in the total budget of the Culture Ministry for 2020 is 70 per cent, while the amount for the regions has a declining or stagnating tendency. [[Noise in the hall.]] I am the last to mention here the joint amendment to press number 605 with the number 3838, which the petitioners are also with me Mrs Pavla Golasowská and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. This is the funding in the subsidy programme supporting the dissemination of information in the languages of national minorities, which is situated in the expenditure block supporting the culture of national minorities. The total amount of appropriations in this programme is falling gradually, while the costs are still rising. Compared to 2011, the volume of these funds decreased by almost CZK 8 million. [[Noise in the hall.]] Members of the subsidy commission of the Ministry of Culture have warned many times about the strong underfinancing in this programme. Media of national minorities solves existential problems, being the cornerstone of every national minority in the Czech Republic. During this year, the missing funds have been found and we would like this problem to be resolved directly within the state budget for 2020. We therefore propose that CZK 4 million be added to this programme and another CZK 1 million to support the cultural activities of national minorities. I recommend that the proposed amount of CZK 5 million be transferred from the expenditure chapter 396 to the State debt, in the relevant specific indicator of the government debt service. Thank you for the possible support of my amendments and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u125	Thank you, Mrs Kozlová. Now, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, Jan Bartošek will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, dear colleagues. I would like to present to you, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL, an amendment to increase the funds for social services, which I present together with my colleague Vítek Kaňkovský. We know that the system of financing social services has been neglected for a long time. This year we have again seen that we have often negotiated here on the increase in the social services funds that were missing, and this is precisely what we want to avoid with this amendment so that next year social services and providers know what funding they will be managing. It is crucial and crucial to them. It is crucial for them to have funding for the salaries of workers and social services workers, those who are in direct care with clients, whether with beds, whether with clients handicapped and in other services. I would merely recall the salary of a social worker - 23 to 25,000, a social worker who has a higher or higher vocational education, about 28,000, with an average wage of CZK 34 105. I know that about two thirds of employees can't reach average wages, but we have to say that these workers work with living beings, people, and we need to prevent burnout syndrome, there's also high fluctuations, and we need these people to be properly paid. Therefore, in our amendment, we propose an increase in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in a specific indicator of non-investment non-payment transfers of EUR 1,439 million. Crowns. At the same time, we propose a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in a specific indicator of the physical emergency benefit of 300 million. We also propose a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in a specific indicator of the benefit of state social support and foster care by an amount of 300 million. Crowns. For another we propose a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the specific indicator of active employment policy by an amount of 600 million. Crowns. In addition, we propose a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration in a specific indicator of expenditure on financing EU programmes by CZK 239 million. Therefore, I would like to support this amendment and I would like to subscribe to it under the number of House document 3788. Thank you for your support. At the same time, I would also like to ask for the support of the amendment tabled here before me by Mrs Lenka Kozlová, who is concerned with the increase in funding to the printed media and the cultural activities of national minorities, because this specific indicator has been underfunded for several years and there needs to be an increase. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Golasowská. Now, Mr Jan Bartošek, Mr Martin Kupka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I would like to sign up here for four amendments. This is the House document under number 3703, further the House document 3704, further the House document 3705 and 3706. Each of these proposals shall be justified on a case-by-case basis. The first proposal includes the possibility to increase expenditure in Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic in the cross-cutting indicator of the drug policy programme by an amount of 35 million. The purpose of the funds transferred is to ensure the functioning of prevention and care in the field of drug policy at least at the level of this year, taking into account this year's unwanted decrease in expenditure on drug policy subsidies from the Ministry of Health. Without increasing these funds, there will be a breakdown of the drug service network, which currently ensures prevention and treatment for tens of thousands of clients throughout the Czech Republic. The second proposal in Chapter 308 of the National Security Office increases the amount under expenditure item by a total of 8 million. Crowns. Expenditure to ensure the performance of the tasks of the National Security Office and the expenditure to ensure the performance of the tasks of its own office shall be increased for the purpose of the construction of a new Central Register. The Central Registry shall record separate classified documents of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, European Union classified documents and classified documents of other alien entities in separate procedural protocols for each level of confidentiality. In addition, a list of all registers in the territory of the Czech Republic and lists of Office staff are kept in the Central Register, which can allow access to classified information, e.g. the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, the European Union or other entities of foreign power. The third proposal concerns the National Cyber Security and Information Security Authority. There, the expenditure indicator increases by 41 million in total. Crowns. Here I want to increase expenditure on the completion and development of the IT infrastructure of the National Cyber Security Authority and the development of software and hardware infrastructure to protect against cyber attacks. Specifically, it is the construction of a non-classified network in Prague, the geographically separate backup workplace of the government CERT in the event of the absence of operation of the primary site in Brno, the purchase of measuring equipment and the purchase of encryptions for the classified network of the SAOKIB. The proposed measure will cover the basic needs of the State to ensure the necessary development and safe functioning of the National Cyber and Information Security Authority. The last proposal again concerns the National Authority for Cyber and Information Security. There the indicator of expenditure increases by a total of CZK 12 517 428. The proposed changes aim to offset the unjustified differences in the salaries of the SAO's employees compared to the civil service staff and to match the funds needed for the planned changes to the government's regulation on the salaries of employees in the public administration and the basic functioning of the Authority. Madam President, Madam Secretary, I hope that these amendments will be supported by you because this concerns the security of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u129	I thank Mr Bartošek. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, Marian Jurečka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u130	Mr President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to sign up for an amendment that is under the heading 3902 in the system. It concerns building new school capacities near large cities. It's a topic that's on fire at the moment, it's actually burning with a pretty big flame. Unfortunately, the problem is growing further, and there is insufficient funding to grow the necessary capacities for children's education in the vicinity of large cities. We have conducted a basic survey of what the real demand is, the real need only in the Central Bohemia Region, in the ring around Prague, and in the next five years it is necessary to invest the capacity building of schools at least 4 billion. Crowns. It's been a view for about four to five years. These are absolutely real numbers collected on the basis of detailed surveys, questions of mayors of cities and municipalities near Prague. And it is up to the Czech Republic to deal with this problem. In a situation where, unfortunately, the housing construction in Prague is still blocked, pressure is increasing especially for smaller municipalities near Prague to release space for residential construction in their territorial plans. Some mayors and mayors have already stepped on the brake and do not allow it, but they are unfortunately subject to pressure elsewhere, or have succumbed to it in recent years, and it is clear that without building the necessary capacity it will not be possible to ensure the basic task of municipalities and towns and the Czech public administration - to provide space for children's education by compulsory school. Based on this, the situation from last year is repeated, I would like to propose the strengthening of two specific programmes, one programme under the administration of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, a programme of support for selected projects for the development of basic education capacities established by municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities. This programme would increase by 300 million. Crowns. Another is the well-known programme managed by the Ministry of Finance, which concerns the strengthening of the capacity of schools near large cities, not only Prague, the exact name of the programme is Support for the development and renewal of the municipal material technical base of regional education, namely the subsidy subtitle 298D21. In this case, it should be an increase of 200 miles. CZK for next year. These are at least the basic funds that will enable the problem to be alleviated, and similar amounts must be taken into account in the coming years. It is really an absolutely real need of the territory, it is not data sucked out of the finger, but an image of the real situation of the territory around Prague, with the fact that we tried to find the amount of half a billion crowns in the expenditure chapter 322 Support business, so the amendment is precisely conceived. Given that education is undoubtedly a priority for this government, the problem is not only about whether and in what quality we will be able to provide education, but about whether we will be able to provide education at all, because if capacity cannot be built, it would mean commuting to the nearest school for children from those places every day from 20 to 30 km to the nearest school that has free capacity. Thank you very much for understanding and evaluating those real indicators, real numbers, and for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u131	Thank you, Mr Kupek. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u132	Beautiful evening. Mr President, fellow Members, since it is already quite an advanced hour, I do not want to delay much, so I want to apply to the amendments that I have tabled to the draft state budget, namely under No. 3876 is an amendment concerning the problem of barking, and House document No. 3877 relating to land adjustments. I'll just explain briefly. I propose in favour of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury to increase the specific land adjustment indicator by 500 million. CZK and these funds take from Chapter 396 the State debt, the service of the state debt. What I am seeing is an increase in the budget of land adjustments as a meaningful response to climate change and how to effectively contain water in the landscape, how to eliminate erosion, how to support landscape elements, ties, how to simply give extraviláni municipalities a chance to be better protected in this matter, let's say, and invest simply in those adaptation measures for climate change. The second amendment concerns an increase in Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, a specific indicator of forestry support for treatment measures caused by barkling, in the amount of 4 billion. and take these funds from Chapter 369 of the State Debt, again. My point is that for 2017, the fourth quarter, and for the entire year 2018, compensation is already paid to forest owners. This is primarily the problem of the smallest owners who are in extremely difficult and difficult situations today. And for 2019, when these people have to benefit under the law, to fight the crust, the calamity that has been extremely difficult in the last two years, no money is earmarked in the draft budget. According to estimates by the professional forestry public, the estimated amount is at least 4 billion. The crown, it will be necessary to cover the damage caused by the crust and the calamity in the woods. I would very much like to consider this, because the money will still have to be paid next year and there would be a clear message to those forest owners: yes, the government is aware of the problem, the House is aware of it, is able to respond to it and give you a clear message, if you fight a calamity situation, you will try to slow it down, slow it down and so on, so we will also compensate for the costs. Thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u133	Thank you. Now Lukáš Bartoň. Jakub Janda will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u134	Thank you for the floor. I would like to present my three amendments. This is House document 3780. In this amendment, we are dealing with an increase in teacher salaries by 5%. When we discussed this on the Education Committee, according to information from the Ministry of Education to raise salaries according to our resolution of 2017, it meets 26 billion in the education budget. Because it's unrealistic by 26 billion. This increase, in line with the Association of Industry and Trade and Trade Unions, we have submitted an increase of at least 5 billion. When this was discussed on the budget committee and on the school committee, there was a problem with the chapters. We are now presenting a slightly different chapter in this document. The smaller compromise proposal is then a House document 3782, which only counts with 3%, with 3 billion. As I heard during the day, it has been designed several times in similar terms. We'll be happy to join in supporting the others. In Houses of Document 3783, the salary of higher education teachers is considered. While it has been declared that government salaries will increase by 1.5 thousand, higher education unions have calculated this to be met for higher education teachers' salaries, it is necessary to increase their chapter by 320 million. Why didn't it happen? It was justified that university teachers have wages, not salaries, so they do not have to grow wages by 1.5 thousand. CZK as salaries in the state administration. I think this reason is ridiculous. That is why we propose that the wages of higher education teachers grow as well as the salaries of the state administration. That's all my designs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u135	Thank you. Now, Mr. Jakub Janda. Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u136	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to my amendments to the State budget for 2020 set out in the system under headings 3809 and 3821. My first amendment concerns a transfer of 2 million. CZK from the Office of the Government to support the non-profit sector of equal opportunities for women and men to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the contribution to care under the Social Services Act, i.e. people who can no longer help themselves. [[in the region]] I will only add so much to this proposal that last year I have discussed very closely the subsidy programme which serves the appropriations, but neither the substantive and constructive arguments have convinced this Chamber of Deputies, and the means that could have been used to buy compensation aids for disabled citizens have been used elsewhere. This year, therefore, I simply add that the state is to choose which areas of the non-profit sector it will support and does not give rise to entitlement or right. Such a choice should then be prudent, and taxpayers' money should be used in areas that the state cannot primarily secure itself. In my opinion, gender policy does not fall within them, and let us use the two million rather in an area that is in the interest of both the state and the interests of the citizens and whose social benefits are much more measurable and visible. Such a typical area is the contribution to care under the Social Services Act, which does not adequately reflect the increase in the cost of the social services system and in which it can generally be expected to increase costs due to demography, virtually. due to the increase in the number of beneficiaries in adults and at the same time the transfer of recipients of this benefit to higher levels of dependence, which is objectively due to the ageing population. We present the second amendment together with our colleague Jana Černochová, colleague Pavel Žáček and Vojtěch Munzar, covering a small part of the budget, namely CZK 6,300,000. But its symbolic meaning is much greater. We Members elected as the Civil Democratic Party propose that these funds, which are earmarked for the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom, be transferred to a place where they will be used for the benefit of this country and society. I find it incredible and scandalous that even in the next year's budget there is money at all for this union. Last October, I identified him on the floor of this House, if I cut short, as a posidérém sorority in favor of former aesthebacists and minions of the Communist regime. Unfortunately, I have to say that nothing has changed. And if I once again earn further criminal charges from the union's leadership, so be it, I'll just take that as a confirmation of my words. The Czech Union of Freedom Warriors under current leadership, mainly under President Vodička, continues to act contrary to its original mission, and not only that. It often breaks with the values of freedom and democracy and the pro-Western orientation of the Czech Republic. I do not understand the division of public money for this association. After all, some members of the government, including their prime minister, also raise objections to its functioning. Several self-governing authorities, both urban and regional, have even ceased cooperation with the Union. But unfortunately, it's understandable. We have a government that goes to the Communists, and they're back in line to defend the union. This is exactly one of the specific cases where the influence of communists on the current garniture is revealed. And members of this government, both from the YES movement and from the ČSSD, may face a hundred times that this is not the case, just as barbed wire can face a hundred times as the stem of a rose, as Karel Kryl called it. And I quote quite deliberately, because going to the Communists' hand and admitting money to this hopeless society under its current leadership, at a time when we remember 30 years since the events of 1989, is an outrageous double. And it really doesn't matter if it's just six million, six billion or six crowns. He doesn't deserve a penny of public money. And if this government doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand, it's her shame. But I don't want to criticize. We're offering a solution. And the solution is simple and reasonable. We propose to use these resources for organizations that are really useful to Czech society and this country and whose moral credit is not soiled by red deposits and which really deserve support. Namely it is the Association for the Conservation of the Links of the Czech Resistance, the Association of Former Political Inmates of the Czech Republic, the Šoa Praha Memorial and the Platform of European Memory and Conscience. Each of these associations would receive the same amount from the said 6,300,000 CZK, i.e. CZK 1,050,000, and the Czechoslovak Legionary Community, which is already supported by the Ministry of Finance, could then apply for CZK 2,100,000. So it is up to you, honourable Members, and especially you in government benches, what message you will send to society, whether the six million are worth the reputational peace of mind for the work that Communist support allows you to do, or whether you will support this amendment and show that your take-off words on the 30th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution were not just false and empty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u137	Have a good evening. I'll read an apology. Member Radek Koten apologizes from 20 hours to the end of the day. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear and prepare Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, I would like to apply to the two amendments that I have put into the system. This one is under number 3867 and concerns the change in expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the expenditure block of active employment policy. I suggest we cut this amount by 1 billion. CZK and this divided, put in half the expenditure chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, under the heading of service to forest owners 500 million. CZK, and to the expenditure of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture under the item Land Treatment also increase by an amount of 500 million. Kč. A brief explanation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, although facing historically lowest unemployment rates at less than 3%, increases expenditure on the so-called active employment policy from 2.25 billion. CZK 3.6 billion. The Minister was unable to justify why, in this situation, when, as I say, only those who do not really want to work in the Czech Republic do not work anymore, we must raise by nearly 1.5 billion. CZK expenditure on active employment policy, while non-state forest owners are facing a huge one, I will say a catastrophic problem about the idea of crust barking and the destruction of barking calamity, hence the amount of 500 million. Kč. And landscaping, it's probably one of the most effective tools to fight the drought. The Czech Republic started with land modifications sometime in 1991, and if it goes at the rate we are going, we are about halfway around now, so count on how long it will take us, with land adjustments being a key tool for us to be able to fight not only drought, but also a number of other problems that we have in the Czech Republic, where it is managed. So this is one amendment. The second amendment concerns a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under heading 431 of social advice, which I propose to reduce by 640 million. CZK and increase expenditure of the Czech office of survey and cadastral under heading 1361 administrative fees. A brief explanation. Last year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs needed an amount of 150 million for so-called social counseling. Kč. The Minister was unable to justify at the committee's meeting why we need this amount of 150 million. CZK needed this year to increase to CZK 768 million. CZK in the next year. I would like to say that these expenses are necessary and that they are definitely needed somewhere else. Here we discussed rather intensely and excitedly on the topic of increasing fees and doubling the deposit fee in the real estate register. That would basically solve the problem. We would not have to raise the fee from CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,000 when writing a deposit into the real estate register and the problem would have been solved. I believe that if it was enough for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to advise 150 miles. This year, he doesn't need 768 miles. next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u139	I will now ask for a speech from Mrs Miloslava Vostroa and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u140	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to apply to my two amendments, and this is the House document under 3757, concerning the digitization of the ČTK archive, and the second amendment under the number of House document 3900, which concerns an increase in funds for non-investment batch transfers, i.e. Social services, old evergreen. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u141	I will now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech and Mr Roman Onderka will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the House document under number 3811. Let me read the justification: The accompanying resolution strongly warns the Government of the Czech Republic that the implementation of the budget in the income area of the Administration of State Material Reserves is possible only from the time the legal requirements necessary for the implementation of the proposed sale of stored material, coloured metals, all following Act No. 240/2000 Coll., the Act on Crisis Management and the amendment of certain laws, the "crisis law" are fulfilled. Opposite procedure, i.e. the implementation of the sale and subsequent changes in the crisis plans could constitute a deliberate threat to the defence of the state and a serious disturbance in the state's readiness to handle crisis situations. At the same time, it is necessary to draw attention to the context of the shared security of the European Union in the context of building crisis stocks of the Member States of the Union, especially for stocks of raw materials whose resources are not located in the territory of the State and are dependent on imports from countries outside the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u143	I will now ask Mr Roman Onderka to speak and prepare himself as the last Member, Mr Petr Dolínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Amendment 3823, which is introduced in the system. The proposal deals with increasing the budget of the specific binding indicator of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, non-investment non-payment transfers, expenditure circuit transfers for activities carried out by municipalities in the area of SPOD, by an amount of 60 million. Crowns. Reduction of the budget of the specific mandatory indicator of Chapter 313 of the IMF pension benefit by a sum of 60 million. Crowns. Reason. On the basis of the amendment of Decree No. 341/2017 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration, the amount in the state budget should be approved in order to ensure the proper functioning of the network of bodies of social and legal protection of children in the Czech Republic, taking into account the increase in salary rates of CZK 1,500 for more than 2,500 workers carrying out the social and legal protection of children. In the government's draft state budget, an amount of 1,53 billion is proposed for subsidies to municipalities for the pursuit of child socio-legal protection activities. CZK, which does not cover wage tariff growth from 1. 1. 2020. The total need for expenditure on subsidies to municipalities for carrying out activities in the field of social law protection for children in 2020 is 1.59 billion. It is necessary to secure expenses of 0.06 billion, that is 1,500 CZK times 1 338 for social contributions and 12 months times 2,500 SPOD employees. Act No. 359/1999 Coll. establishes a clear and indisputable claim to the State for full reimbursement of the costs associated with the provision of social law protection for children for municipalities with extended scope. Let me conclude by asking you, including the Minister of Finance, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u145	Mr. Petr Dolínek will be the last to speak. So far, I have no further application for a detailed debate. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u146	Good evening. First of all, allow me to take one remark that is not directly related to the proposal for amending the budget. However, when I look into the right spectrum, and now I don't think of the SPD - here I thank my colleagues from the SPD that they are taking part in this discussion today - but in the right spectrum, it's ruthless. They've been training us here for weeks about how we want to tax, how we want to do what we want to do, how bad we are, how we hurt people, and when we decide on such trivial things as the state budget, I see about a tenth of their representatives here. Well, I'd like them to answer that in front of themselves the next time they come here to train us. Because this is something outrageous, that there are hardly any of the leaders of their parties, clubs, let alone their deputies. And now for the proposal itself. I would like to sign up for a proposal of 3752 to amend the budget. It's about Vinohrady's falcon hall. I designed it last year. It's 250 miles. for falcons. As you know, Vinohradská sokolovna is one of the iconic buildings of Prague architecture and is also one of the most important constructions of Sokol throughout the Czech Republic. Therefore, I suggest that 250 miles. CZK was transferred in favour of this investment, and I firmly hope that this year I will find a greater hearing and support the Falcon especially in the year when we supported the Falcon during important days. And once again, I ask the opposition to be more dignified and more represented in the debate on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u147	Now three factual points. So I will read the order: Mr Jurečka will be the first to speak as the second Mr František Vácha and Mr Martin Kupka as the third Member. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u148	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Dolínek has just asked for it. Because when I look into the ranks of social democracy, if I count correctly, there are two of you. If I look at our club, we're at least three out of ten, so a third of the MPs are here. But there aren't even a quarter of the MPs behind the ČSSD! [[Resurrection and applause from the right.]] So please, look into your own ranks first, and then here, criticize other MPs. Or objectively name from left to right, how many communists sit here! The current hidden coalition partners. One's up, one's up! [[Voices from the diaper.]] So please be nice, be correct! Yes, I admit correctly, I see many members of the government coalition here. But if they weren't sitting here! But on the other hand, if I look behind me, how many government ministers sit here when the draft state budget is being discussed? Let them be honored to be here, but many of them did not perform at first reading in the general debate to at least defend their chapters. So please sweep your own doorstep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u149	Now, Mr Martin Kupka, with a factual remark, as Mr František Vácha wishes to speak in a detailed debate. So Mr. Petr Dolínek will be prepared for the de facto then. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u150	We have witnessed the excellent moralist window of Mr Dolínek, but I would like to point out that Members not only presented a number of very specific proposals for helping the Czech Republic throughout the afternoon. And the more interesting and important question is, how are you going to stand up to these suggestions now after the moralist window? How you will help these proposals to pay and help the citizens of the Czech Republic. So you don't have to face much more remorse of your conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u151	Mr Dolínek has withdrawn, that is, I will read one more apology in the meantime before Mr František Vácha will speak in a detailed debate. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes on 27 November from 20.15 until the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. So, for a detailed debate, Mr. František Vácha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't hold up. I would like to thank my colleague Dominik Feri for volunteering for my amendment as a second. I'm here for TOP 09, we've got one member, and I've held up until the end, so I'd like to sign up for my amendment, once more like him. It's an amendment under number 3808. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-023-004.u153	Thank you. I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Have a nice evening, and the meeting will continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
