ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u1	108. Members of Patrik Nacher's proposal, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Martin Kolovratník, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 200/ - third reading I ask that Mr Patrik Nacher take the position of rapporteur on the table, and the rapporteur on the guarantee committee, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, is already at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 200/4, which we have at our disposal from 30 January 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 200/5. I would remind you that the guarantee committee was an economic committee. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Now I ask the plaintiff... I do not ask the plaintiff because President Chvojka wants to speak with priority rights. [[He prefers the appellant to speak after the debate has been opened.]] There you go. You can go to that point. The debate is not yet open. Okay. So I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He doesn't. So I am opening the debate and the first person to sign up with priority rights is President Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, I wanted to put the plaintiff first, of course. I'm reporting for a regular discussion. I would just like to make a brief statement about the third time, because we already have a third reading on the draft of this law for the entire CSSD club, although I know that some of my colleagues or colleagues will be performing. [[11.30 hours]] We are happy as a social democracy that one of the many things ČSSD has put through and succeeded in that past term was to enforce restrictions on working time in retail and wholesale for a large group of employees. Thanks to this ban on sales on some holidays, market employees have more time off and, in our opinion, people have become accustomed to restricting their selling time without any major problems. And we would not like the employees of these markets to lose this benefit, which we have been trying to achieve as a social democracy for many years, we would not like the employees to lose it. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of any amendments that make this law loose. This means that neither proposal that in any way wants to weaken what we have wanted for many years will be supported. Unfortunately, the right-wing parties, but there it is understandable, but even the YES movement has supported a proposal that goes as far as possible towards the interests of the chains, and that is unacceptable for us. I think the ANO movement might think about whose side it's on. Whether it's the employers' side or the employees' side. The ideal is to stand on both sides, but in this case the law is obviously designed to protect those who have to go to work on holidays. We are, of course, historically on the staff side, and we want to go even further. We would like and support the amendment that wants to extend the limitation of working time on holidays to all public holidays. We don't want to make a difference. The text of the law that we are discussing today, as it was approved in the previous term, so you know that the list of those holidays was a big compromise, but it was a compromise which, from my point of view, and especially today, is not logical, and not only from my point of view. Because every public holiday under the State Holidays Act is equal to the other, all public holidays are equal, none of them are superior to the other. There is no category of more or less significant public holidays. And we would like to vote on this, as we must, to extend the restrictions on sales to all public holidays. Dividing into when it's closed, and dividing when it's not, doesn't make sense. And people don't know it. That's wrong. Market workers work hard, their work is demanding, so it is fair for employees of these business chains to be free as others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u3	Thank you. President Faltýnek is registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u4	Good morning, colleagues. I believe I can fit in those two minutes. Just to revive the memory, as it was in the last term. This law was approved by dominant voices of social democracy, KDU-ČSL and KSČM. We, as the YES movement, then voted against this law or did not vote for this law. However, however, we came up with Patrik Nacher's proposal, when it is a law that mainly concerns retail selling time, so we came up with this under Section 90, so that we could only remove wholesale from this law, I will not name specific companies, but we all know which companies are involved. With the argument that when we left in the law that forbids the sale of some holidays, the possibility of selling in shops up to 200 meters, it is these traders that buy in the wholesale. Normal people don't go to wholesale shops, entrepreneurs go there, children can't go there until they're 14 years old, and this was the motivation why we proposed this law under Section 90 with this only modification. Unfortunately, it was slammed, which is why the law reopened. I want to say here for our club, we do not have a binding vote on this matter, however, that we will only support the exclusion of the wholesale from this law, with it staying the way it is about the holidays that are approved in this law, because we think it is not good to change laws at any moment. So many of our reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u5	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. Mr Dolínek, Nacher, President Stanjura, Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u6	Good morning. Mr President Faltýnek, through Mr President, we do not have to lie here that these people are only those who have business in this Macro. Go check it out! The positive thing is that kids can't go there, I agree with you, it blocks one of the arguments so that the holidays aren't the main theme of life, that it's going to the supermarket. That's positive about what you said. But when you go to Makro sometime, look there, there are those who actually shop for shops, you can tell by shopping carts, you can tell by the range of what someone is buying, I don't want to say the minimum, but I think a minority. Let's not kid ourselves that people don't go there who have a self-employed person for something completely different, have a business license or any other option to get that card, and they normally go shopping there like they're going to another store. Of course, some use tax options that are there, some buy at those prices including VAT, they don't have any deductions, but they just buy there because someone prefers that there's better meat, some say there's more comfortable shopping. It doesn't matter anymore. Someone's doing it like a month's shopping. But let's not say here that basically those who supply their retail supply are buying there. I don't think that's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u7	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u8	Thank you for the floor. I appreciate Chvojka's colleagues, we did an insolvency novel together, but I didn't understand his performance. I, as one of the petitioners, have put it in place to exempt the wholesaler. And you're actually asking us and me here as if, after the YES movement, as I understand, to actually vote against something that we have proposed. That's the same thing as coming up with a cancellation, then there'd be a changeling to extend it to five days, and I'd be here convincing you to vote for it. Just like let's go, we've already said it here in those three readings, and let's at least really go back to the common sense. We designed it here, we just wanted to take it out, if it were left here in the '90s, so we didn't have to deal with it anymore, and there didn't have to be two extreme poles. And as for the purchases, while I'm already here, in the wholesalers, now the reaction to my colleague Dolínek through Mr President, there was that basic argument when you approved it, after all, that shopping tourism. It's like these people are spending with their whole family at the mall, they're gonna put in the kid's corner, they're gonna buy something, over there, over there. That's just not possible with the wholesalers! I even feel like somebody told me they wouldn't let them into the wholesale store for under 15 years. That's a big difference! I'm not gonna argue with you here. But that's where it's about avoiding shopping tourism. You guys want to plan for these people to be with those families and not be in those shopping malls, so it really doesn't happen here, this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u9	Thank you. President Stanjura, Mr Luzar after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u10	All we need now is for the Social Democrats to suggest that we control the purchases of the CFI, whether they need it for their activities or not. Some wise clerk would decide what falls into the subject of their business and what doesn't when they shop in wholesale. I want to turn against President Chvojka's argument - that the amendments are in the interests of the markets, you said. They're in the interests of the citizens. They decide by their behavior whether to buy or not. If citizens spontaneously decide what you want to tell them by law how to behave on holidays - I do not encourage it to be purchased on holidays, but it is a free decision of our citizens. And in their interest, we propose to abolish a law that makes no sense. That's all. So please, you can say: We as the left-wing party know better than our citizens what to do, so we propose regulation and rules and we enforce them. We'll check it out. He's there shopping in a macro and he's a plumber and he bought meat, so it's actually against what he should do, etc. But don't use arguments, don't argue wrong arguments with those who disagree politically with you. The debate is. Opinions are different, that's legitimate, but you're responsible for the debate. That's what the petitioner's deputy, Mr. Nacher, said. We had a long time to decide by vote. By voting in the '90s, whether we're in favour or not. Thanks to you, we've lost months of debate. Then you complain. Those debates are repeated all the time. And today we're in the same situation as we were many months ago. Finally, we will decide on the original proposal by vote, or by several amendments. And then you're complaining about how it repeats, how the right always wants something, but you've made it possible for us, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u11	Thank you. Member Luzar. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u12	Mr President, by your means, I will respond to the colleagues who have spoken here. Yes, this law is not about citizens. He's an employee. Yes, this proposal is about employees, those who could work twelve, fifteen, eighteen hours if the law doesn't regulate it. Therefore, there are laws that regulate operating hours or working hours. That's why there are laws that limit working hours. Because, of course, in the best interests of citizens, employers, everyone will have to work 24 hours a day. Let's get business done. That's why we have laws here that limit this possibility and protect employees. And this is one of the proposals that protects the employees and allows them to be at home on the holidays. Since we already have the holidays. Then cancel the holidays. And now that we have them, let's try to make it so those people can be home. That is why this proposal was and talks about some compromise of the size of the shops. Yes, the number of the holidays - it should be for all of them. We can deal with this. But the proposal that's here and it's talking about wholesale - again I'm pointing out, is the difference between wholesale and large trade and the definition here is clearly given. And the control authority that comes to enforce whether it's closed or not is closed encounters the problem that even the shop where there are climbers, where there are kids playing, where everyone there, as described here, is beautifully stocked, presents proof that he also sells in one tenth of a percent as wholesale, therefore meets this legal condition of wholesale and does not apply to it. At that point, all that supervisory authority that tries to enforce this law will end up on this one fact. It's gonna be real. And if this proposal goes through the way it's set up, I'll bet the translator it works that way. And that's part of the bite -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u13	[[He goes into the speech:]] Mr. Ambassador, your time. Thank you. Mr Grospič, after him, President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, I was here last time we discussed this at second reading, talking about how many supermarkets, wholesalers there are in the Czech Republic, that there are about fifty-sixty, how much lower (?) and how many people are employed there. In fact, over 800,000 employees are employed in the wholesale segments. And I think it's absurd, and it doesn't fit in this Chamber of Deputies, either, to argue that children can't go into certain wholesalers until they're 15 years old, and that's why those employees can work there, and that's why they can be opened and they can be in a different regime. It's just that those employees deserve to be on holiday as well as employees in other wholesalers. And if it can work in other countries in the European Union around us, I think it can work in the Czech Republic. And it does not endanger market consumers, but it emphasizes that we respect the dignity of employees, of labour law and that we do not essentially make them figures that do not know how many times or two days ahead of schedule of their working hours, they are grateful that they can earn on Saturdays and Sundays, because it is appreciated more, and thus increase their wages and thus they can achieve some better earnings than if they were working normally. That's undignified and ridiculous. This bill wasn't supposed to fall here at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u15	Thank you. President Faltýnek, Mr Bláha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid we don't understand each other here in this debate. I'm the one who made those arguments about why Patrik Nacher and I made that proposal in the '90s, and Zbyněk Stanjura and the others, here's the reason. The current law says that shops up to 200 square meters can be open and restaurants are automatically open on holidays. I will now try to respond partially to Mr Dolínek through Mr President. Yes, he's partly right. They're in the Makro, when you've already named Makro, people who aren't entrepreneurs and businessmen in the sense that they'd be shopping there as if for their main business. But there's a minority of them. When you look at the carts, it's mostly the little businessmen and especially the restaurants who shop there for their business. So let's just try to use the arguments relevant and factual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u17	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Bláha. Mr Dolínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to what has been said here. I respect my colleagues very much, but unfortunately, I have to say that they're a little bit of a stick here. They've fallen for the very strings. Because going shopping for the little ones is total nonsense. You would send employees to work on the day of the holiday when the person doesn't have to go to work? No. You leave it at home because it's costing you. On the day of the holiday, the usual business of all companies in the service is 50 to 70 percent humiliated. Everyone's trying to reduce all traffic to a minimum. Shopping definitely the little ones go day in advance so they don't have to take the day - first - when it's a holiday, take their employees to work for a purchase in Macro, and second, to meet their demands that they want to be with their families. The argument that we're flattening the environment so the little ones can shop is simply pointless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u19	Thank you. Mr Dolínek, Mr Sklenák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u20	Thank you. I wouldn't like it to turn into some kind of social engineering. That's why I was just pointing out here - at least the kids can't go in there. But that's not the point. I would like to stress here what President Chvojka said. The main reason is that we say that employees are supposed to stay home on public holidays. Whoever goes shopping ever is the thing of every family, every individual, it's everyone's business. We don't say what anyone has to do in their spare time. We say the supermarket employee has the right to free time. And only to President Stanjur through Mr President. Here on Tuesday was an attempt to make several laws quickly in the '90s. All opposition vetoed. One next to the other! Then don't throw us in here and we want to have a discussion!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u21	Thank you. Mr Sklenák, Mrs Pekarová Adamová after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u22	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I volunteered in response to President Stanjura's words when he said, if I well noted that the open trades are in the interests of the citizens, that it is their free decision that they want to buy at the holidays, and we should therefore allow them to do so. In this logic, however, we could also open up offices on holidays, because people might want to do something on a public holiday that they didn't have time to deal with on working days, so we could have an open building office or a municipal office and so on. I want to remind everyone that part of our legal order is also something called the Labour Code. The labor code divides the days of the year into working days and working days of rest. And the public holidays are now designated as working quiet days. Probably not by accident. Probably just so people wouldn't have to work these days. And basically, the dispute is, in my opinion, whether open supermarkets meet the condition that the labour code gives to doctors, drivers and so on, that means that only such work can be ordered, which necessarily satisfies the living needs of the population. And I just think, and as Social Democrats, we think we can do without the seven days of the year without the open trades. And if you're saying that you don't, that you need to be open for seven days to go shopping, it's very selfish in my opinion. [[11.50 hours]] And it's quite typical that half of the House has on Facebook today, as the women wish for MDJ, and as we all appreciate them and there are flowers, and if there's anything we can do for those cashiers, then suddenly you're fighting so hard for your rights so you can go shopping, and you're not looking at those cashiers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u23	Mrs Pekarová Adamová, after her, Mr Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u24	Thank you for the floor. We've been having this debate for years, and I think it's still in the same spirit, in the same guard. Some simply claim that this is a measure for the protection of employees, and we still haven't heard from many of us who disagree, why, then, colleagues and colleagues, you chose only a certain group, one sector, and why we didn't start talking about closing restaurants and pubs. After all, there are a number of other people who would also like to be on holiday. You never answered it, you were unable to say why this sector of employees has priority for you here over some others. I deliberately do not say such files as police officers, firefighters, medical personnel or, for example, radio and television staff, who must also be at work on a holiday, because there are, of course, many cases about saving people's lives, property, etc. But we're still hearing over and over that some employees should have the right to celebrate the holidays, too, and we don't hear why just a certain group. So come on in, let's face it, you want to introduce it to other businesses, and let's just talk about canceling open pubs, restaurants, because it's an unnecessary service, and we can definitely do without them seven days a year. I don't go shopping on holidays, unless it's strictly necessary, I'm not defending my view here at the moment. But I think it is a certain view of the freedom of citizens, what they will do in their holiday time. And I think that we can just save these debates by adopting a proposal that is here as an amendment under the letter A, which is the proposal of my colleague Mr Kalousek, who is simply repealing the whole law, because I think that we are going to have these debates here for years, because there will definitely be someone who wants to amend it again. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, Madame!]] You can support it and we'll save ourselves a lot of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u25	Thank you. Mr Bláha, Mr Nacher after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to add what was said here. It's not just the employees, it's the whole company. This means that by opening up wholesalers, there will be a paradox that, in fact, suppliers and especially small suppliers who supply that Macro with fresh food today will have to open their operations. And listen to the paradox. They won't have anywhere else to drive, because the others are closed and they want to be closed because 900 small retail stores under the CBA even want to extend the closing to other holidays. So they don't have anywhere to drive, because the other establishments are closed, but they're only gonna have to open Makra because Makro says you can't, so you quit!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Nacher. Haven't you checked in, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u28	Thank you. I couldn't take it anymore. I, first of all, fundamentally reject the demagogy that anyone who has proposed this law or this change is forcing someone to go to work, and whoever is defending it is the biggest defender of employees, consumers, etc. It's not like that. I repeat, we're not saying here, we're actually just canceling the ban. We're canceling the ban. You're always forbidding someone. We say the possibility. And now, colleague Bláha, I will not respond to him otherwise, so that we don't extend it by an hour, but now he's contradicted himself. He said that there are already some operations or some chains that have decided to shut themselves down for all the holidays without the law. I was also setting an example here at the public hearing that there are some establishments, restaurants, cafes that are closed every Sunday or every Monday that they have a sanitary day. They don't need the law. And they've got competition all over them. We say to be open, not that it is a must, that it is an obligation. That's one thing. Two. In other words, we don't say either, or that when it gets into the law, that everyone will automatically be open, everyone will have to deliver. And for my colleague Grospič, through Mr President. I've already warned KDU-ČSL colleagues about this. In this case, if I were you, I would not argue, please nicely, how it works in foreign. On March 26, we will have a marriage here for everyone, so it also applies in all countries in Western Europe, so I look forward to your vote and how you will argue with this. So either you have arguments here, or when you run out and it's dry, you always come up with how it works somewhere else, how it suits you. And if there's another law, you won't argue with that foreign law! Not like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u29	Thank you and submit with a factual remark by Mr Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u30	I have to react because that's how we don't listen to each other. I wasn't here to argue with those who are closed today, the stores that are closed. I was arguing with those manufacturers who might be closed today because the very little ones they supply are closed. But by opening the makro, and the paradox, obey! We, because of the fact that a wholesaler who has 13 establishments within the Republic, will have its rights and freedom above the equal rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens! We are losing the right and freedom of our fellow citizens to the foreign chain, which will leave absolutely no money to earn here. Okay, I'm just gonna repeat this one more time. I didn't defend or say anything here, and I didn't doubt that some of them could make a decision today, but I'm the one who fights for those who can't make a decision, who are pushed by the contract to have to deliver the goods. We open the wholesale, so the baker who delivers there on a weekday has to deliver on a holiday, otherwise he's unlucky. He won't drive. And the fact that you don't know that, colleagues, is simply because you work in other fields, unfortunately. I also do not interfere with health care, education, or other matters that I know nothing about. I'm talking about a business I've been working in for 30 years, and most of it, and I represent 120 companies from the bakery union, so everyone wants to be closed. That's about 9,000 people. And another 20,000 people from the store who signed the petition. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u31	Mrs Kořanová will respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I basically wanted to say what my colleague Nacher said. I will respond to Mr Bláha. Mr. Ambassador, if they don't want this, they can withdraw from the contract. And I believe that there will be ten others behind them who will be happy to sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u33	Thank you. Mr Bláha and Mrs Němcová came forward with factual comments. I assume the Vice-President is claiming priority rights. [[Yes.]] So it's a matter of fact that comes first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u34	I have to respond. Think about what was said here. That's total nonsense! So you have a contract with someone, and you get that contract to tell your employees to go home. You've invested, like, 100 million and you're gonna throw the investment in the trash? You won't do it! You're not gonna do it because you're just after the employees and you're after the investment. No. It's the employees you're after. Believe it or not, we who do business don't go for money, like most people who work in the state sector. We walk because that's our goal in life, our fun, our inner decision. And most of us who work in the field of fresh food, so believe that we're doing it with our heart, otherwise we wouldn't have done it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u35	Thank you. Mrs Němcová, after that, with a factual remark from Vice-President Hanzel. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask our colleagues from the YES movement if they would not be so kind as to resolve the problem that they are dealing with here at the House's third reading, kindly at your club's meeting, take a stand, and then come up with it. It seems to me that in the same situation, we've already been here in the last reading, when you've been talking about what you like and why you support the law and why you don't. So that's what MPs are doing, and you could save us all some time, and we could do something that we're already clear about. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u37	Thank you. Now Vice-President Hanzel. After that, Mr Nacher and Mr Třešňák, with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u38	My esteemed colleague, I dare to get off because I'm not from the club YES, so I didn't get a chance to talk about it at their club. I'm so fascinated by the way we're attacked for protecting and standing by the staff. Yes. Social Democrats will always be on the side of employees. We did it, we do it, and we do it. I met with the representatives of the petents, it's about 20,000 signatures. I think it's quite a few signatures so we can throw it off the table one time. And these people are really concerned that they are not allowed to spend their free time as they deserve. Because a holiday, a holiday, my friends, is a day for rest. And I don't consider working in a supermarket and any other market to be relaxing or relaxing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u39	Well, have a nice noon. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Patrik Nacher. And he'll be ready for Mr. Třešňák's de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u40	I now have a comment with the permission of my colleague Němcová through the Vice-President. I didn't get your point. There's just one, two, there's a third reading today, and every MP has the right to express his views even though he's just from one club and he's disagreeable. I certainly don't want to take that right away from my colleague Bláh, and I would never have thought if perhaps your Mr Klaus here is performing differently than some ODS Members, to say that you should take care of it at the club. If we act united here, you'll say we're one man's side. Then let's just let it go. I will no longer respond to everything to speed things up, but I think my colleague Bláha has the right to come forward. Anyway, we discussed it at the club, but that doesn't mean that 78 Members here would have the same opinion of everything. See previous vote on taxes. So I really didn't get the point. And here's to Vice President Hanzel's colleague. I haven't heard from anyone here once that you've been accused of defending your employees in any way. It's okay. I don't know why you always twist those words. You're saying that we make somebody walk, that we blame you for something, but while I've been listening, it's more like you're blaming us. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u41	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Třešňák, and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. So far, I have two of these applications. Please and your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u42	Good morning. I may have a small point, or rather a question for Mr Bláha through Mr President. I like to get a lecture from parliamentarianism anywhere in the world. But when he spoke of representing 9,000 bakers, I feel that the Czech Lower House does not have a proportional representation of the guilds or states. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u43	There. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please. So far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u44	I would like to ask your colleague Nacher not to train my colleague Němcová here. My colleague The Němcová woman came along just as you came to this microphone, through the Vice-President, to give your opinion. It is happening here quite often that members of the ANO movement settle their accounts in this plenary. And please also respect some of our right to mental hygiene. It's Friday noon, and we're actually at the third reading. So here it was a request from Mrs Němcová, who has the right to say this request here as much as Mr Bláha has the right to speak here, and she didn't question him in any way. And ask you to actually say those things at the club at the third reading. If you mentioned a colleague here, Klaus. I don't recall there being any conflict between my colleague Klaus and any of our members. The fact that we may have a different opinion about some things in the media is another matter. But it's not happening on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So please forgive yourself for such comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u45	Now another factual one. Mr Pavel Jelínek. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u46	Hello. Mr President, colleagues, co-workers, since I have about two years of experience working in this unnamed Macro chain, on the one hand, I want to correct you with 15 years of access to the wholesale. That's not true. The height is set because there is movement of forklifts. That's up to 120 cm tall. He might even be a grown man, if he's not 120 centimeters, he just won't let him in. [[Laughter, fun.]] But that's not what I was gonna say. The point is, if this chain is closed, I guarantee you there'll be a lot more people there that day than when it's open. Because inventory is just going to start, it's going to start repairing technology. I was both in the electrical department and as a technical manager. So just trust me, you don't help a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u47	Now with another factual, virtually. I only have one application - Mr. Mr. Bláha. And so far, the last deed I have logged in here. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u48	I would just like to say that where else we should discuss a law that affects 12 million fellow citizens. Where else? What else should we discuss? This concerns most families in our Czech Republic. Believe that the majority, because everyone within their families has someone in their family who this law affects, who it affects. Or your friends, your friends. And try asking them if they'd rather be home, they'll have an open company on holiday, or they'll go with you tonight to burn witches. 'Cause the second I go shooting witches tonight and the next day I have to work in the morning, I can't be there. I have to go to work or have an open firm. Because rolls, buns, but anything fresh food I can't prepare ahead. I have to empty this Makro in the morning, which is why I had to make it overnight. So these people don't stand a chance of spending a normal holiday like all of you. I'm not mad at you for that. I'd just like you to listen to me and try to understand why most companies that work in the area of fresh food and services want to be closed on the holiday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u49	There. So far the final de facto. We will return to the general debate. Member Jiří Mihola. And Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will come to pass. I hold to the long term thesis that there are days when economics and shopping may not come first. I'm convinced of that. At the same time, I am a Democrat, and I am not imposing this opinion on anyone. And if the majority opinion is different, I'll respect that. However, we want, as a KDU-ČSL, and we always stress that it is the shopkeepers who usually have children who can really spend the holiday days with their children and families. Nothing more, nothing less. No more debates about how they should be digested, how sometimes it's pushed, none of us have ever led. [[12.10 hours]] The regulation, I think, is a sensible and normal thing to do. And, in essence, state holidays themselves are regulation. We actually have a state holiday after the legislative process. This is where we decide them. Some of them are even more recent dates, so you know that we applied to them this way, so let's not pretend that regulation is something foreign to us. If I take this ad absurdum, someone might get upset about what any holidays are like. If a workaholic wanted to work all the time, and now the whole regime is somehow muted on holiday days. Everything doesn't run the way it does on a weekday or a little bit. So absurdly, we could argue with each other that we don't really need the holidays at all, or let's not introduce them, as has already been said here, because it really doesn't make sense to take one step, and then deny or defend others that are related. And let's not involve firefighters or any such folders that really have a different meaning and a different intensity than what we can buy the day in advance or the day after. I could quote here a statement from the National Center for Family. I think you even got him across the political clubs. I would almost say that all the MPs are applying at some point to support families, families with children, etc., and so you might be interested in how this amendment is being approached by this National Center for Family. He's turning her down. I expected more from the Social Democrats and the government to tolerate the KSČM because - let my colleagues not be angry, I have to poke them slightly in this sense. If they really saw this as a serious matter, they would lean more into it within the coalition or within the tolerance cooperation. I know what President Faltýnek pointed out here some time ago. I know the YES movement didn't support it during the previous government coalition, but at the same time, when it passed, there was a statement that said, "We'll let it work for a few years first and we'll do an analysis." Is there any analysis on the table, please? Or do we want to see here that this analysis is the change that Mr. Nacher is coming up with to remove the wholesale? Is this what the analysis of the YES movement looks like? That's what I'm worried about, if that's true in the economic area. And then I would like to remind you, and I am sorry - colleagues from many clubs, absent colleague Kalousek or some members of the ODS, I know that Mrs Udženija does not sit here, but he is part of the leadership, and some others, including Mr Nacher, have spoken. The first argument was - let's change the chaos. The chaos that some holidays have to do with it doesn't concern some. Please, who would doubt it by chance now, go through the screen records, said this colleague Nacher, Mr Kalousek repeatedly said so to her colleague Udženija on the show with Michaela Jílková. Find it. They really put it that way. That's how we got emotional about how we wanted things to be uniform. I'm telling you to keep it uniform, so it's not chaos. I therefore come up with an amendment that would concern all public holidays. It is also an argument for us not to make and accept proposals that are half-hearted next time. I had reservations about the Senate's proposal from the beginning because it was not really stated there, why only the selected holidays and whether anyone was afraid or not, that if instead of eight at once he gave fourteen public holidays, all of them, that it would be too large a portion, it would again be nonsense and simply to the half-heartedness of many things then we commute. It's also stupid for us to run by removing the wholesale, and then we're going to be dealing with x-shouting why they took out the wholesale and why not this and that. We've seen this before. So please, let's make a democratic decision and let's face it -- either we want those holiday days, there aren't so many of them, it's 13 days, please, what it is, it's really not gonna bring down any economy. So either we want it and we will be proud to have a special regime, as they are in many foreign countries. I don't want to point it out, I'm just saying it as an experience that they themselves, maybe I've already quoted it, the Němec themselves say "we know we might not have it, but we're glad we have it." So either we are happy to have these public holidays, and let us really honor them as in another regime, or let us say no, we will be Europe's most working-holistic nation, although we haven't overtaken them in 30 years, which is a wonder when we didn't regulate them before those heavily regulated countries, so it doesn't seem to have any effect, but at least we would have said it straight. So either we want order or chaos, but all the other hangings on our noses are just unnecessary. I therefore offer my amendment. It concerns all public holidays and I believe you will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u51	I will now request a performance by Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. As the last in the municipal debate, Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared, the last at the moment. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Honourable House, I will divide my performance into two parts. Firstly, I would like to inform you about the petition that has just arrived at the Chamber of Deputies on this point, and the Committee on Petitions has dealt with it, and secondly, I would like to say something for myself. Information on the petition for the maintenance of Act No. 223/2016 Sb., on sales time in retail and wholesale in the current version arrived in the Chamber of Deputies. The number of petents was 14 064 and the number of sheets 722. I add that this petition was still supported by the Bakers' Union, so we can talk about the two tens of thousands of people who, even publicly and objectively, signed themselves to maintain the current legislation as it is at the moment. Petenti's petition calls for the maintenance of the current version of the Sales Time Act in retail trade, which is the anchoring of the conclusion of trade on listed holidays. The petition is therefore an expression of opposition to the present amendment to the relevant law which amends that provision. The current practice, according to the representatives of the petents, has proved successful and there is no need for change. It meets the staff's requirement for some public holidays, as is customary to various extent in the countries of the European Union. The closing or opening of shops concerns not only employees in the given shops, but also related operations. I met with the representatives of the petents as rapporteur for the committee. The Committee on Petitions then approved the holding of a public hearing on this petition. The public hearing took place on 20 February 2019. Ms Renáta Burianová, President of the Union of Trade, Logistics and Services, spoke for pettents. Among other things, it stated the basic reasons which led the staff to support the petition and preserve the existing form of the law, and the President was supplemented by other representatives of the petents. [[12.20 hours]] Let me just briefly state the basic arguments that the petenti have put forward to support their requirement that the current regulation of the retail and wholesale selling time be maintained. They say that by introducing the holidays, sales didn't go down, they just moved on to other days. They even claimed that the predeposit phenomenon in the shops had increased. It's not small stores. They're hypermarkets over 200 square meters. Small businesses are mostly closed by their own decision. The important argument is that without a legislative measure, without being given in the law, the stores will not close. petent said that if one trade stays open, the others will also have to be open in a competitive fight. They set examples from abroad. For example, the Austrian wholesale works only until 13 hours every Saturday. Sundays are closed. They also contradicted the arguments that fell here to support the proposal that we are discussing today, that it is not true that employees are losing their earnings with the closure of the holidays. The reward for working on holidays is often dealt with by a substitute holiday or by the preparation of holidays. But that's not exactly what they want for employees, it's no use to them that they have some other time off than on the holiday, because in that case their partners, husbands, wives, their children are not free. Of course, they referred to the surrounding countries. The President and representative of the petents, Mrs Burianová, also said that the vast majority of the employees, up to 99 percent, are asking to maintain the current regulation, so it is against the bill that we are in question because they put the family first. She said that the petition only ran in a very short time. Yet within 14 days, they were able to collect 14,000 signatures. At a public hearing... On top of that, I must add that the petents also contradicted the arguments that led to the workers, employees who are in other services, such as firefighters, health professionals. We all know that these professions are also in a subdued regime on holidays, including public transport. The employees advocated that rather than canceling the seven days off, we'd rather take the day off on all public holidays. I must add that under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Deputy Minister Pilný appeared at a public hearing. The opinion of the MIT is to abolish the law, for the following reasons: The law is not processed by the RIA, nor did it contain the original Senate proposal, which is contrary to legislative rules. Other disciplines are also normally obliged to work on holidays, transportation, restaurants, doctors, but this was disputed by petents and pointed out that it was a little different. But it was also said from Deputy Minister Pilný that although the proposal is unnecessary according to the MPO, the question is whether it is already ripe for cancellation after a short period of life. There's not enough information. Mr Hovorka, Deputy Minister, spoke for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as another Ministry concerned. He stated that the current provision, i.e. the seven holidays, is fully in line with the International Labour Organisation's Convention on Holidays, which states that holidays are a special time for rest, even if there are exceptions. It is in line with practice in the European Union, but compared to the European Union, Czech restrictions are mild compared to countries west of us. He also noted that no impact analysis was available to identify any negative effects of the fact that the seven days of the public holidays were closed. Finally, Deputy Minister Hovorka stated or pointed out that the law is being challenged by a group of senators at the Constitutional Court and it would therefore be appropriate to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision. Furthermore, at this public hearing, which I am referring to, Mr Nacher, Mr Bláha and Mr Španěl spoke significantly among others. I'm not gonna speak for them, they're gonna say their thing here. Allow me, however, a summary of the public hearing. I can say that the majority of those who participated in the public hearing, most of those who have spoken, clearly stated that they are in favour of maintaining the current situation, i.e. against the bill in the press that we are discussing. And let me still do it for myself. We have heard here as a majority from colleagues and colleagues from the right that we are restricting freedom. Well, the freedom of one individual ends where the freedom of another begins. There was talk of free citizens' decisions. I agree warmly, but I remind you that citizens, and free citizens, are also employees. And we should give free decisions to those employees as well. The freedom to go to work or not, when their employer has to be open, they don't have the freedom to vote. We as Social Democrats, and we have said this many times before, have always defended the freedom of a man without distinction from his wallet, without distinction from his social status. We've always defended and we'll defend the employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u53	So far, the last application, Mr. Jiří Bláha. In the meantime, I'll read the apology. Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamáček apologizes from 12.45 am to the end of the meeting day. Furthermore, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes from 12.15 to 14.00 for reasons of work, and Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 12.30 to 14.00 for reasons of work and as the last Member of Helena Válková today from 12.30 to the end of the day - personal reasons. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning, I would like to wish all women one more time for today's holiday and just remember its origin. Just over 110 years ago, women in America went to defend their rights and their freedom. Just over 110 years ago, they went out into the streets to remember their burned-out colleagues in a race where the entrepreneur did not want to allow women to express their views freely. That's why I'm terribly concerned that some of you don't want to listen to the arguments of those who don't want to work on the holiday. The previous government guarantee of the definition and approval of a public holiday determined the rules and laid down certain kinds of restrictions and advantages. The state holiday is a day of working peace and leisure, an important day of statehood of the Czech Republic, but especially for all citizens without distinction. [[12.30 hours]] The perks of this day - we have a day of work and a day off. Possibility to spend this day with family, children, parents, grandparents, relatives, friends. It is time for a dignified celebration, thinking about traditions, because according to tradition, when you look at the first Republic, Austria-Hungary and other times, you will find that the holidays have always been observed. Everywhere was closed, there was no business. It's always been like that in our country. So those are the perks of the state holiday. Disadvantages and restrictions we have today. We have limited operation of local and national public transport. We have limited operation of most medical facilities. And now I'd like to challenge you fellow paramedics: do you work in hospitals at full power? Are all the doctors and all the nurses there? Are there no operations restricted? They're not? So practical doctors are open, dentists are open, specialists are open. The operation of pharmacies is restricted. Most pharmacies in the Czech Republic are closed. Limited operation of all interest associations. Closed operation of the authorities. Closed operation of state administration files. Closed operation of ministries, closed operation of the House, closed operation of schools, kindergartens, nursery. And here I would stop by because most of the people who go to work are women. Where do they usually put their kids when they're at work? The schools, kindergarten, day care. They can't. She needs to address her family to take care of their children. You're all raising your hand here that we need to support families with children. We're not gonna support them with this. What's interesting is that car sales are closed. Most car vendors, although they generate the largest GDP and the biggest profit within our Czech Republic, are closed. There's one thing I'd like to mention here at the first part. I think it's dignified to deal with the ideas that have always been here. That means Sundays weren't working, church trips, and holidays were honored. One of the appellants was part of a party that has been promoting this all along and has also promoted it under its Presidency. I'm so shocked that he's suddenly speaking differently. The arguments of the appellants - reward and money. Read the labor code. Staff members shall be entitled, in the first place, to take leave of absence for work on a holiday. Some who have irregular working hours, and I call them so-called assholes, so they plan regular working hours so that the day off for the holiday always comes out to the employees. So then they'll never pay for the holiday. So you should be dealing with that, and maybe you could set more equality between all of us. The arguments of the appellants - law and freedom. Freedom of business. Do you really want to build the right and freedom of one company over the right and freedom of thousands of families, the right and freedom to do business over the right and freedom to have a free day on a holiday as provided for in the law? Do you really want to build the right and freedom of several foreign owners who will make all profits outside the Republic above the right and freedom of Czech citizens and companies? The proposed modification - another argument. The proposed modification helps those who can be open, buy raw materials and goods. This argument has no real economic or social basis. No business entity will burden its business or business with any activity, working time, inviting people to work to make the economic situation worse on the day of the holiday. Because it is common during the holiday and in the summer the turnovers of these shops that are open on the holiday are less than 30 percent of the normal day, while wage costs are two to threefold higher. He does not want to burden the families of coworkers with unnecessary entry to work on the day of the holiday. Just no company that employs people so appreciates its employees and does not want to burden their families unnecessarily by having wives or fathers or acquaintances at work. All companies, institutions, hospitals, which must ensure normal operation on the day of the holiday, limit the scope of their services to a minimum. Do we really want to build the right and freedom of individuals over the right and freedom of most nations? Our fellow citizens? If so, let's just tell them straight away that we don't care that your children will be spending without their parents. We don't care that you don't have the chance to celebrate a dignified holiday. We don't care that at a time when most people celebrate and rest, you have to go to work. Above all, we are concerned that we can go to the store and meet our needs. It's smiling. It's really smiling. It was said here that my contributions were smiling, but for me, this is pathetic. And I would just like to ask you to consider your decision whether you really want to put the right and freedom of our citizens above the right and freedom of one company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u55	Your performance triggered an avalanche of factual notes, so I have four. First of all, I will ask for Mr David Kasal's speech. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mrs Miroslava Němcová and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will also be prepared. So four in that order. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u56	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I don't even know where to start. I guess I'll start with the usual. Mr President, I think you are living completely out of reality. I don't know if it's on this globe, but, of course, I'm just going to tell you from the medical environment that there may be fewer people there, but do you think that on Saturday and Sunday, patients are going home? The staff that's in there has to treat all the people who are in that hospital. There are hordes of others coming in. So it's just that the performance is even bigger now that we're talking about it. I'm sorry you said only women come to work. I don't take gender balance, but you've taken it a little bit to the edge. The second thing about the youngest generation, and I'm training those doctors. You know what the problem is? Yes, we come from traditions here, and holidays are taken to show statehood and so on. The youngest generation thinks it's just a day off. Just for the day off. And I have trouble putting them in those services. And at this point, it's like we're gonna have to decide in a while that we're gonna have to leave the doctors there, because they're not gonna get the patients. They want the day off, and it doesn't decide whether it's a holiday or not. It's not about that at all. And on that day off, they want to live on that holiday, they want to have available services, they want to go shopping. But it's about letting these people live the way they want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u57	I will now request a speech from Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Madame Němcová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I really did not want to speak anymore, but this constant repetition of Mr Bláha's words through your means, justice and freedom. Mr. colleague, by your means, please do not confuse the word 'right' with the word'regulation', 'no', 'command' by the state for the word 'freedom'. A number of bans and orders, what people are meant to do on a public holiday, does not really contribute to free will. On the contrary, the state limits it. With every ban, every law restricts freedom. So please don't repeat that. And if you want to push your employees for interest, your employees' claim, don't confuse it with the right and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u59	Next in line. I'll ask Mrs. Němcová to perform. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready and I have a third application, Mr Bláha. Madam, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I was hoping to misunderstand Mr. Bláh. And that's why I'm gonna ask him to explain to me once more who he means by the punks he's talking about. I may have listened badly, but I understood that it meant those who have irregular working hours, which is a number of professions from medicine to transport, security forces, Members and so on - I could continue. I'm asking for a definition. At the same time, I am fundamentally, but fundamentally opposed to any citizen of the Czech Republic being called an asshole!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u61	I will now ask for Mr Ferjenčík's speech. In the meantime, I'll read two apologies before you arrive. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes from 13.30 to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. The second apology is Mrs Jana Krutáková, apologizing between 12.30 and 14.00 for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to thank Mr Bláh for speaking openly here in the debate that he is putting up with his arguments. I hope that it will not happen in the future when the opposition Members again put up with their arguments that the members of the government coalition will accuse them of some delay, obstruction and so on. Parliamentary debate belongs here and I am glad that it is taking place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u63	Now, Mr Bláha, so far, the final point in fact. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u64	Thank you for your questions, and I'll be happy to answer them. I myself have uneven working hours in some professions, but I will never allow myself to plan a day off for a holiday if he doesn't normally get a day off. I'll send you e-mails from company workers who are unfortunately unlucky to have their employers plan it this way. They plan their day off, so they don't have to pay their holiday, and they do what they have to do because they don't have hours. That's how it is in our Czech Republic. If you don't know, I'm glad I could introduce you to this, and I'll be glad if you'll be with me because I support uneven working hours. It's okay for the companies to choose, but they should respect the fact that if he's coming out on the day he's supposed to work, I'm not planning a holiday there on purpose, because I know he's not going to work. It's stupid, isn't it? And as far as medical facilities are concerned. I appreciate most doctors, you might say all of them. I appreciate the medical facilities. I think we have health at an incredible level. With many of them, I'm a good friend. And I'm only gonna say one thing. My daughter had a baby a year ago and she was in trouble. They took great care of her, but with the fact that when the problems passed after one day, we were told: we can't let you go, because there's no one here who can decide. There's just limited traffic. It just is. Unfortunately, I have the same with my mother-in-law. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] She's sick. [[The President again draws attention to the time.]] And just when she gets here for the exam, she won't be examined on the day of the holiday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u65	I beg you to keep your time. If so, please log in again. Otherwise, things are gonna get ugly around here. So now I have three factual points. Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS MEP, Mrs Majerová and Mr Kasal will be ready. Mr. Chairman, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u66	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to several speeches by Mr Bláha. He said his performances are perceived as smiling. I don't see them that way. I think the Member has an extraordinary gift of defaming most of the House and most of our people, if they happen to have a different opinion than he does. "I understand, if you come, I'll explain. If you have a different opinion, you don't live in the real world and you don't understand it at all." [[Strongly.]] I quote literally the Member. I know he didn't mean it. "I know a lot of people who have irregular hours, and I call them assholes." That's what Mr. Bláha said. And when his colleague alerted him, she wouldn't say a word. And now just to amuse him so I can give him a little poke. His logic of thinking, of acting: I am fundamentally opposed to working on public holidays. Imagine if someone ordered a public holiday instead of sending him to work. [[Strongly.]] Is the first sentence in force, Mr Blá through the Vice-President, or is your second sentence in force? I know the mischief, I criticize it, but I would ask the President if someone starts telling his relatives' health stories to call him to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u67	Another factual one. Mrs Majerová, Mr Kasal will be prepared and Mr Bláha is the last to be applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u68	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, through the Vice-President, I would like to supplement my colleague Mrs Němcová and our President Zbyněk Stanjura. I'm asking you to explain why you're using an asshole to people with irregular working hours! You are constantly full of respect, morality, and instruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u69	Please address yourself only through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u70	But I'm asking for your explanation of the word. If you think you can call any person in society a pussy, I'd like those people to know why you call them that. You should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u71	Once again, I will ask you to address yourself only through the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that Members do not address themselves directly. And now Mr Kasal has a point of fact, followed by Mr Bláha. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Just an explanation. That's the thing, Mr. Colleague, that in health, as you said it, it's the thing that really needs to be treated there. As far as childbirth is concerned, this is an exact example of the fact that children are born when they need to: on a holiday, at night. [[Glee in the hall.]] And we have to be there. And they're fully equipped with medical teams. Not that there's anyone missing. We're fully committed there, and we're waiting for that to happen. On the other hand, it's because it's not limited in any other way, so there's traffic on weekends just like on weekdays, and now I'm talking about the ambulances. And that's where the reasonable people don't have to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u73	So far, I have Mr Bláha's final de facto application. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u74	Thank you for asking. Once again, I'll explain to everyone who didn't understand me, and I'm sorry that you don't understand me. It's my fault I can't explain it. So a company that employs employees with irregular working hours has the opportunity to schedule working hours as she determines. This means that if it comes to a month or a weekday or a holiday, the company will determine that this day will be a day off for employees. At that point, he won't pay for the holiday. I didn't use the analogy you said here for employees, but it was for businessmen who were using the system of uneven working hours. And I'll say it for you one more time. I thought you had the economic education you were talking about. And I'm sorry I'm talking about it, but I've said it again and again. If a company exploits its position to schedule a day off on a holiday, and that defines it as having to pay a holiday, even if it doesn't work, it simply runs counter to my inner conviction, because I don't do it and not all decent employers do it. It's only the ones I called what I thought of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u75	So far, the final point of fact. I don't even have anyone enrolled in the general debate. I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone's checked in yet. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I am asking for Mr Nacher's draftsman and rapporteur Mrs Langšádlová if they are interested in the final words. You don't. The MP doesn't have one either. I have here a motion for a vote on a motion to dismiss. We'll vote on him first. I'll have the Members come to the O.R. I have an application for check-out. I'll check you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. I have a motion to dismiss, so we will vote on a motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against rejection? Voting number 178, 154 Members signed in for 29, versus 106. The motion to dismiss was rejected. Let's keep going, then. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Langšádlová, to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I propose that we vote on point A first, which means that the original bill will be abolished. Then we would vote on Mr Mihola's amendment, which means enlargement to all holidays. Then, if this proposal were to be adopted, we would no longer be voting on C1, which means Mr Luzar's proposal, which also talks about supplementing all the holidays, but we would only vote on point C2, which means Mr Luzar's proposal, which speaks about the definition of wholesale.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u77	Thank you. We will vote on agreeing to this draft procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 179, 160 Members registered, for 160, against none. The proposal for this procedure has been accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u78	At this point, we will vote on Part A. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u79	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 180, registered by 161 Members, for 62, against 73. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u80	Next, we will vote on part B, which is the proposal of my colleague Mihola. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u81	Designer? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 181, 163 Members registered, for 41, against 108. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u82	We would now proceed to the vote on C1 of Mr Luzar. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u83	Designer? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 182, 163 Members registered, for 44, against 105. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u84	Now C2. The Economic Committee has not adopted an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-08-ps2017-027-04-003-108.u85	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 183, Mr 166, in favour of 40, against 104. The motion was denied. If I have the right remarks, we voted on all the amendments. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Patrik Nacher, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Martin Kolovratník, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on time of sale in retail and wholesale, according to the House press 200, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 184, Mr 166, in favour of 112, against 38. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing this press. We're going to go to the next point, and that's the number.
