ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u1	14. Proposal by Members Milan Hnilička, Patrik Nacher, Věra Procházková, Jaroslav Bžoch and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /house print 241/ - second reading prosit refer to Mr Milan Hnilička as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, when I presented here on 31 October last year an amendment to the Act on the promotion of sport that we have prepared, and another 51 colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies signed it, it was nice to see that there is a really broad interest in the whole subject of sport during the debate at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. Although there were opposers and critics of our intention, the amendment to the law went through the first reading. When I listed the reasons which led me, together with others, to submit an amendment to the Sport Support Act, I mentioned in particular the need for greater clarity, transparency, a clear focus on promoting sport and the related efficiency of the money spent, which the sport environment expects and needs from the central authority, which will be better and more systematically dedicated to promoting sport. I also spoke about the fact that after the first reading we will continue to discuss the draft amendment of the law and that we accept and work on all the suggestions that will mean improving the amendment of the law. We have made important recommendations that have emerged from the government. We canceled the proposed supervisory authority, exchanged it for the National Sports Council and modified the roles of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency and specified the transitional provisions necessary for the optimal transition of activities from both the education department and the functional positions associated with their gradual deliberation. Following further consultations with the professional sports public and representatives of ministries, which have the area of sport, we have jointly decided to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the amendment to the Sport Support Act, which reflects these recommendations. It thus improves the original amendment proposal, specifying some important steps, including transitional provisions. At the same time as the preparation of a comprehensive amendment to the law, the Ministry of Education made substantial findings, which resulted from the six-month practical experience of the introduction of the register, which contains information about the sports environment. Key changes necessary to improve the functioning of the register were also reflected in the adaptations related to the comprehensive amendment, which responds immediately to the needs of the Ministry of Education and practical experience with the register and its setting. Here I see it as important to mention that the register is still subject to the necessary adjustments and additions. In full compliance with the legislative process, this comprehensive amendment was therefore tabled, discussed and approved on a subcommittee for sport, also on the Education Committee, the Public Administration Committee and regional development, as well as on the Public Administration Committee. Even in these negotiations, some of the opinions and recommendations that came from various Members across the political spectrum could be incorporated. As a key point, I see a strong agreement with certain partial proposals tabled by Mr Jakub Janda of the ODS, as well as some proposals, namely two proposals from my colleague Bartoň from the Pirates, we have also incorporated into the comprehensive proposal of the amendment. The second reading thus presents a material which, in the form of a comprehensive amendment to the Act in the original amendment to the Act on Sport Support, responds fundamentally to the requirements that result from the entire professional spectrum addressed, which is dedicated to promoting sport and which also implement this promotion of sport. I personally consider the comprehensive draft amendment to be very successful and, together with our colleagues, we are ready to discuss it both in general and in detail. It will be great if today's comprehensive draft amendment can be supported also in second reading, for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u3	Thank you, Mr Hnilička. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee, as well as the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Committee resolutions are available as House prints 241/2 and 4. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Stanislav Juránek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion was at many levels, and the amendment to which it relates and will also cover all the other amendments that I have found to be on the agenda today. The amendment, the comprehensive amendment by Mr Milan Hnilička, was taken as a basis. I would just like to say that, in the last few minutes, many amendments have yet to come, when it was agreed that amendments will be made to this. This means that I will be speaking later on in the debate on last-minute amendments. However, I say again, the basis which is approved and recommended, to which everything relates, is the comprehensive amendment made by Mr Milan Hnilička.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the guarantee committee. As I said before, the next committee that dealt with the proposal was the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Václav Klaus to inform us of the discussion on the committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u6	Hello. I signed up for the general debate to discuss it, so I'm just going to say this briefly. It was taken away from our committee for some power reasons, even though we are a committee on education, culture and sport, and it was assigned to a committee to which it does not belong from the logic of the matter. So our position was that we wouldn't be too involved in this, let the honorable other committee do it themselves. This has also been discussed in our country, and I am very pleased that I will not be involved in this confusion of amendments as rapporteur, but an honourable colleague, Mr Juránek, who, thanks to his experience and intelligence, will certainly be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Bartoň is the first to be applied for, Mr Janda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to defend some of the amendments I have tabled to this proposal on this amendment on the promotion of sport. I have already put most of these proposals on the subcommittee and committee, and I am glad that two of my amendments have been accepted by the committee. I have withdrawn two on the basis of a debate in committee, so I will not serve them. However, there are still seven others that the committee has not adopted as its own, and two others that I have added. My amendments, which are in the system under numbers 2100, 2101 and 2102, relate in particular to transparency in the field of sport. In the field of sport, where I perceive that it is one of the most clientelistic environments, so here it is necessary to work a little on at least the transparency, and therefore in the amendment that is already going to the comprehensive amendment by Mr Hnilička, I am dealing with transparency of the organisation as the final beneficiary, where, although it is the smallest, there could be some form of transparency. That is why I propose, at least here, the establishment of a transparent account which is not administratively demanding and which then does not require any administration from those small clubs in the coming years, as soon as the accounts are converted into transparent accounts, they continue to work. As far as transparency is concerned then with endless beneficiaries, that means intermediaries, associations, etc., so here my amendment under number 2101 deals with this and here, given that it is no longer those small organisations in the field of sport, so I propose a little bit more transparency rules, at least I would mention that it is good that we should have an annual report on how the organisation deals with money in the field of sport. So far we do not have this, and at the moment we talk about transparency in the field of sport, it is good to have some of the basics of transparency in the law. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the present bill. The third amendment, which concerns transparency, is that we would like to have data in the register, which is now set up, so we would like them to be public. That means, only those data that are not subject to the protection of personal data, we would like to be public. In the current law and in the current version, the register is defined as non-public. We don't see the point. On the contrary, some things are very good if they are public and even if they are in that register as open data, so that individual systems can, for this information, reach and do not have to tilt unnecessarily by people and would not have to spend time over it. But the system and computer science could take it on their own. Another amendment under number 2103 is targeted at the final beneficiary. Here I would like to point out that we would like the structure of the allocation of subsidies to be as flat as possible. That the source of the subsidy and as close as possible to that source be the final beneficiary. Make sure there's as little middlemen as possible on the way to the sports club that trains the kids. That is why I am proposing an amendment - it is not legally binding in the law, it is a recommendation - that the programmes that the Agency will create should be targeted so as to enable as much as possible the final beneficiaries directly to request a subsidy so that they do not have to use intermediaries. Amendment 2104 deals with the President, who is excluded from the conflict of interest law both in the current text and in the text of the comprehensive amendment. I see this as problematic, why it is with the agency that we can exclude someone from the conflict of interest, why they must be here - we can allow legislators to be in the power of executives. This means that this applies only to Members or Senators. It doesn't make sense, in terms of the conflict of interest law, we are proposing that the exception which is in the current proposal be deleted. In addition, Amendment 2105 deals with the requirements for the choice of the President of the Agency when the law, as it stands, states that the President must have five years in the field of sport, in the field of sport management. Once again, we do not see the reason to limit the number of people who may be presidents of this agency only to sports workers, association workers, etc., given that the Agency's main purpose is to redistribute subsidies. Manager, who has five years experience in drawing subsidies, in granting subsidies, etc. Once again, it would be appropriate to make an application to the President of this Agency, which is why we have proposed the release of the President's request. In Amendment 2106, we are dealing with the fact that the new comprehensive proposal by the petitioner is now talking about the establishment of the National Sports Council and gives the law an obligation to establish this advice. We propose that there be a change in the possibility of establishing a board so that the Agency, at its discretion, either decides to set up a board, not to make it compulsory by law. [[17.50 hours]] My penultimate amendment 2107 concerns - I would not like to call it a complex amendment again, but it is a more forceful amendment. The complex amendments, as I've seen, are three recorded in the system. Well, this is a lot harder. And that is, after all the debates we had on the committee, I am still not convinced that the Agency should be the central body of the state administration. This is to remove them from the ministry's supervision, from possible public oversight. I therefore give an amendment which, if created, would return to the Ministry of Education. Similarly to the National Institute of Education, which is under the Ministry of Education, and the Minister is responsible for it, he is also responsible for us, so the Minister would be responsible again for the newly created sports agency. And the last amendment under number 2108 will be very interesting from a media point of view - I have already seen that there are two other similar proposals in the system - and this is the Agency's seat. Here I propose that the Agency's headquarters be not in Prague. There is no need to have an agency based in Prague. Since the digital register will be at the heart of this agency, applications will be submitted electronically, this agency can de facto be anywhere in the Republic. That is why I tabled an amendment to the Agency, its registered office, to move to Bruntál. And I have to say, to inform everyone, personally, I have no interest in Bruntál at all, nor have I ever been there. I took the statistically poorest district of the Czech Republic. And if we are setting up a new agency, a new workplace that could be anywhere, why not support the poorest district of the Czech Republic instead of Prague? Thank you for your attention. I will read the figures in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u9	Thank you. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Mr Vojtěch Munzar from 18.20 until the end of the day for work reasons, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík from 17.30 to 19.00 apologizes today for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies. The rapporteur with priority rights in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u10	Thank you. I am taking advantage of my priority right because we have been discussing these issues on many grémies and, according to the table that I have here from my colleague, we have actually expressed ourselves on all the issues that have been raised here. Therefore, I would like to say gradually how the discussions on the various points referred to by my colleague Bartoň have been conducted. And also to look at it from the other side at the same time. That is, when we talk about supplementing the Agency's competence and defining a transparent sports organisation on two levels, in the one that concerned, the smallest, we were considering whether the proposal that is really will put some small organisations at risk to discourage them from submitting their applications for subsidies. And most people have come to believe that they have. That is why we have not accepted this proposal. As regards the definition of a transparent sport organisation. The transparency is also mentioned in the comprehensive proposal, and the comprehensive proposal is sufficient, and so did the majority in the discussion. The applicant's demands for... now I'm looking further. There's a very important thing here, and that's the record. That's what we talked about, that's one of the most important things that even exists. And there was a search for a way in which the register would be processed. And here I would point out very strongly that this register has been in this Republic since 1995 and that every way to improve what the register is supposed to look like is in the right direction. However, another amendment will be tabled here and it will be important to assess where the register is better processed. I believe that there will be another amendment that will be better than the one proposed by Bartoň. But I stress that the register is really a very important matter. We just need to take into account the various classified information and what we can and can't put in there. There the experts expressed their views on this from a legal point of view. And once again, we're going to have to choose the best solution in the register. When we talk about the subsidy, that we should write directly that the subsidy programmes will all be given priority in such a way that there is aid directly to the final beneficiaries, this debate shows that there are also things that need to be dealt with by larger units. And that the subsidy programmes must therefore be drawn up for both the final beneficiaries and those who mediate it in the case of, for example, unions, Sokol County, etc. This means that we've actually been dealing with this and we've just been thinking about whether this is a better solution, saying that everything will go through the final beneficiaries, or whether somewhere we'll also prefer that the funds can be put together in such a way that maybe the county or the union can use it for some bigger action. To the next thing I know. There is a question as to whether a Member or a Senator may be a representative of the Agency. And I'll say it right away. I don't see the problem there for one reason. That we actually have ministers here who are Members or senators, and I believe, and here I am convinced that most of those with whom we discussed it were thinking that this position is similar to that of a minister, and therefore not as a position that should be excluded from the possibility that it would, for example, be in conflict of interest. That means, again, that we were even talking about ministers where we talked about a slippery mandate. But that's part of a different kind of law. That means that's why I want to reopen this discussion here. I'm just opening up these things that we've been talking about so that she can sound here again and out loud always the controversial part. I'll mention it in the next matter. If this person is to have five years of practice in general, that means whether we really only take him as a manager or whether we take him or not, that he or she must also have a practice connected to the sports environment. We have come to this, or most of us have preferred it to be practice in a sports environment. That is why the Commission's positions were expressed in this way. But once again, as rapporteur, it is important for me to say here that on the one hand there is this matter, that is, we say yes, it must have a connection to the sports environment, the other is that it may not have a connection to the sports environment. So only the majority decided the other way around. My colleague has every right through the President, he has every right to submit the amendment again, even if he did not pass the hearing. If we talk about an advisory body. This is where I'd go into past history. I consider it important, from a sporting point of view, that the advisory body should be there, so that it is not just for the good of the President of the Agency or anyone else. To be given in this law. Because here we already have a tradition that there was an all-sport college that once worked with the Ministry of Education, and this all-sport college was also defined and existed until Sazka's demise. And I feel here that we also have to reflect a little bit in this law, and this concerns more of the amendments, the sports environment that sees how the agency will be headed by someone who has practice in sport, so that on the other hand, there will be an advisory body from the sports environment. That means we're here to reflect on the fact that he wants to show in some way that he wants to be involved in this thing and in this matter. [[18.00 hours]] There are other things I can say, but the last one, perhaps a little smiley, is that I expected more proposals for a residence outside Prague. And here I have to say, as far as I'm concerned, there are three cities left. So to keep this Bruntal so high, I'm just going to sum up that there are three cities left, Bruntal, Žďár nad Sázavou and Ostrava. In view of the fact that all three are in Moravia, I expect there to be another amendment that I do not know about and that it will be in the Czech Republic. That's the look I'm looking at right now. I took the liberty of speaking because we discussed these points here, and just to get into the picture from both sides of the view of the individual thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Václav Klaus will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u12	I think that with these three destinations, they are all beautiful cities, there is no problem, because our great model of the European Union also passes from Brussels to Strasbourg every two weeks, so it could be resolved that the office would pass, so they would be in Bruntal for a week, a week in Ostrava, and this would work very successfully according to the model of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u13	Thank you. Mr Janda will be speaking in the debate. Mr. Birke will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you here a few amendments, which I will then sign up to in a detailed debate and which I have already announced at the first reading of this amendment, and I would therefore like to present to you the contents and reasons which led me to submit them. Since these are a few dozen amendments to the paragrafo text based on the things that I blamed the amendment at first reading, I tabled these proposals in the form of a comprehensive amendment. In my view, there are, in fact, four basic assumptions on which we, as legislators, should take into account and which are key to creating a quality law here. 1. Submit national agency to parliamentary supervision and government control. 2. Set up the management system in sport as far as possible. 3. Structure the management of the National Sports Agency so that it is transparent. 4. Specify sports terminology and some technical terminology to match today's modern standards in the world. I consider these four prerequisites to be absolutely essential for this amendment to give the Czech sport the necessary degree of autonomy and at the same time for the first major transformation of the sports environment in the Czech Republic. In particular, these are the following practical points: Firstly, it is the creation of a Bureau of the Agency. The current version of the amendment envisages that the national sports agency will be run by its chairman and the so-called President in full responsibility. He shall have two vice-chairmen to whom he shall appoint. In my opinion, this is not a very happy solution if it is a newly established central government body with such a specific agenda, which does not have the competence to perform purely the state administration, and therefore should be managed collectively in at least those essential matters. I therefore propose that the top body of the Agency should not be the President, but a new Bureau - a Bureau composed of the President and his two Vice-Presidents. This Bureau would approve the most essential documents for sports policy and, through the President, would submit them to the Government for approval. This concerns the proposal for a state policy strategy in sport, an action plan on this strategy and a proposal for rules of action, financing and cooperation between resort sports centres. At the same time, these three documents, together with the draft budget, the final account and the proposal for the Agency's organisational structure, are explicitly listed and enshrined in the amendment as an obligation for the President to submit these documents for approval to the Government and their not to submit them in the event of a sports strategy and an action plan may justify its appeal. Furthermore, the Bureau should approve the Agency's annual report, the Statute of the National Sports Council as its advisory body and memorandums or long-term cooperation contracts, or long-term contracts to which the multiannual financing of sport projects is linked. The Bureau would therefore be the top body of the Agency, in which the real strategic issues of sports policy are, but at the same time the operational management of sport would be left to the president. Secondly, it is a clarification of the competences, powers and responsibilities of the President of the Agency. The amendment makes it quite clear that the President acts on behalf of the Agency on the outside, is in charge of it and is in charge of the Bureau's activities. In this capacity, it is also considered to be a service body appointed and recalled by the Government, on a proposal from the Prime Minister. It is only specified exactly how the function is taken up and what formalities must be fulfilled by the person applying for this function. What is essential in the proposal is an accurate description of when the Government will call off the President, when he can withdraw him and when the office of the President of the Agency is no longer in place. Here I would stress the new point which follows the parliamentary scrutiny mentioned, namely the determination of the duty of the President of the Agency to submit an annual report to the Government, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and if he does not do so and the annual report is approved by the Bureau, that is why he is dismissed from office. This is not unusual within the central authorities of the state administration and thus builds on the good practice of submitting such documents. [[Noise in the hall, especially in the left side of the hall, is crowded by standing and debating Members.]] Thirdly, and this is a big change, it is the position of Vice-Presidents of the Agency. While the current text assumes that the two Vice-Presidents will be appointed by the President, the comprehensive amendment stipulates that one of the Vice-Presidents of the Agency be elected by the House and also dismissed by the House and the other Vice-Presidents are appointed by the Government on a proposal from the President of the Agency. The Prime Minister and the President of the Agency or a group of at least ten Members could then propose to the House as Vice-President of the Agency elected by the House. The same conditions would then apply to its possible appeal, if there are precise reasons for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u15	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you're right. There's too much noise to carry on. I ask the Members to allow Mr Janda to speak again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u16	As in the case of the President of the Agency, the conditions and criteria for appointment shall therefore be specified and the procedures laid down clearly in the case for which the Vice-Presidents may be removed from their duties. In my opinion, this proposed method of appointment, the removal of the members of the Bureau will allow sufficient control of the Agency's activities by the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, but will also ensure the necessary degree of independence of the Agency, because the Vice-Presidents can only be dismissed for precisely given reasons such as the final conviction for a criminal offence or the incompatibility of functions with the management of a sports organisation. It could be very debatable for some Members that the reasons for the appeal of the Agency's institutions are precisely defined. On the contrary, I think that the independence of the Agency strengthens this, because the President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency can only be removed for tax-based legal reasons. The proposal also provides that the President of the Agency shall represent its Vice-Presidents in full, but in the order laid down by the President of the Agency, at the time of his absence. At a time when the office of President of the Agency is not occupied, the President of the Agency would be represented in full by the Vice-President who is elected by the Chamber of Deputies. [[18.10 hours]] Fourthly, and I also consider this to be very important, these are elements of parliamentary control that go through the whole proposal and are among them: the provisions that the Bureau of the Agency must deal with the initiative of the House or the Senate; the provisions that any institution of Parliament may call on the members of the Bureau to negotiate; and the provisions that Parliament, namely both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, will discuss the Agency's annual report. At the same time, the security of the Agency's independent and impartial management shall be consistent with the performance of the functions of the President and Vice-Presidents with their functions in the sport organisation and business, advisory or brokering activities in the field of sport. It is true that the proposal allows for scientific, publicist or pedagogical activities. However, I have also incorporated provisions in favour of any contradictions in the proposal that these activities can only be carried out if they do not undermine and threaten the confidence of the Agency's independence. The independence of the Agency is also supported in relation to the control of Parliament and the Government by the fact that the term of office of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency is longer than the term of office of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. six years, and therefore the management of the Agency should not be directly dependent on short-term political changes. Fifth, setting up the sport management system. An absolutely crucial issue is the active creation of sport policy, the so-called strategy, and the follow-up action plan on this strategy. At the same time, these strategic documents must be submitted to the Government through the President. This highlights the need and importance of the concept with which we approach sport. The proposal assumes that the sport strategy will then be valid for a period of six years and that a specific action plan will accordingly be set up each year. I set out six years in the proposal to avoid the term of office of the President of the Agency, by virtue of the management of the Agency. The scope of the powers, powers and responsibilities of the Agency itself is newly defined and the scope of support for sport in the form of subsidies is also clarified and their scope is broadened. And sixthly, refinement of sports terminology to the benefit of athletes and clubs and some technical changes. The amendment specifies priorities in the field of sport right at the beginning of the law, namely, in quotation marks, it also enriches them with tourism. Here I would like to say that this is a settlement of the existing situation, where tourism and tourism activities are now seen as part of tourism, although in themselves they are a movement activity. This is clearly linked to a physical movement aimed at improving man's fitness, while tourism is an activity of business and tourism activities themselves arise and only arise on the basis of tourism activities. Due to the tax return on tourism for tourism, I also propose that the conditions for the development of tourism should logically be created by the Ministry of Regional Development, thereby changing the section on the tasks of other public authorities. I also propose to define a national sport organisation. In fact, the current legislation has defined only a sports organisation as a legal person based for purposes other than profit, where the subject matter of its activities includes the field of sport. This would create a new concept of a national sport organisation, an organization that is a member of the international sports federation in the sport sector. This aims primarily to clarify the operational planning of the system in sport and to enable the system of financing in sport to be clarified, e.g. specifying the conditions for drawing subsidies, specifying the criteria for financing sport organisations, certain criteria for international competitions which our legal order does not know, etc. I consider it very important to specify when granting subsidies to persons who are not sports organisations. The provision of subsidies to these persons, typically to municipalities, mostly intended for the acquisition or technical assessment of tangible fixed assets, is an exceptional and rather abandoned practice in a modern way of managing the financing of sport. The reason for this is that persons who are not sports organisations also have other subsidy or financial instruments. However, in my opinion, in justified and specific cases, this institute has its place in direct funding from the chapters of the budget, which are intended for the development of sport and sports environments, because these are in many cases owners of sports infrastructure. Real practice, however, shows that in these cases, there is often an inadequate management of property in the form of project sustainability, and precisely because this institute is to be used exceptionally in the future, I suggest that, if such a subsidy is already provided by the public budget, the sustainability of the funded project should be permanent. Those were crucial points. The next change I propose to this amendment is the change in the Agency's registered office. My colleague Bartoň proposes Bruntál and I suggest that the National Sports Agency should be based in Ostrava. Of course, many of you now think it's an alibi move by one North Moravian patriot. Nevertheless, I believe that this step would make a significant contribution to the decentralization of the state administration and have a significant impact on the reduction of economic disparities between the regions of the Czech Republic. I would like to say at this point, perhaps, for all the Members of the Moravian-Silesian region who have been through this House in 30 years, that perhaps everyone really wanted to move at least one office to North Moravia. Perhaps the furthest in this time went by former Minister of Transport Martin Říman with the idea of moving to Ostrava and Ministry of Transport. However, these proposals have always failed to show that all the authorities are already in place and we cannot change their headquarters, and if so, it would be very problematic. In the present case, however, the National Sports Agency is talking about a completely new office, and therefore there are no historical, geographical and administrative reasons on the basis of which it would be necessary for this central government body to reside in Prague. For a number of reasons, Ostrava seems to be an appropriate location because it is one of the major sports centers of the Czech Republic. Among other things, this was confirmed by the fact that it obtained the European City of Sport title for 2014. There are important international competitions and tournaments in Ostrava, e.g. Athletic meeting Golden Tretra, World Ice Hockey Championship 2015 or European Figure Skating Championship 2017. There are a number of sports clubs participating in the biggest Czech sports competitions, such as Baník Ostrava, HC Vítkovice Ridera, NH Ostrava basketball club and many others. Ostrava is also an important centre of sport education, since there is the Department of Human Movement Studies at the Faculty of Education of the University of Ostrava and the School of Sports of Dana and Emil Zátopková. On a number of our primary schools are set up sports classes with a very sophisticated methodology of education. In short, Ostrava has every right to have a new office here. The amendment to the Sport Support Act assumes, among other things, that in 2019 and 2020, the Agency is to adopt up to 50 new employees, and if we look at the current situation of the labour market, we can expect that finding this number of employees in Prague can be highly problematic, if not impossible. Ostrava, on the other hand, would have a very high-quality number of applicants, and it is in Ostrava that finding employees can be much easier for this agency. Moreover, we can certainly assume that the rate of fluctuations of these employees in Ostrava would be lower in order than in Prague, which would make a significant contribution to the Agency's stable operation, especially at the time of its creation. However, the positive impact on the Ostrava region would be mutual because real estate prices and their leases in Ostrava are generally lower than in Prague and the same applies to a number of services as well as to the cost of living of the Agency's employees. I am now looking at my colleagues from the club YES, the captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region Ivo Vondrák, the mayor of Moravian Ostrava Zuzana Ožanová here, but they are also supporters of the amendment. I have no doubt that both the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Moravian Ostrava District are ready to help in finding a suitable building, and I am proud that the real patriots of the region are gathered in this House, who are ready to join in the work together. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this proposal concerning the transfer of the seat of the Agency that I have made separately and I have not included it in a comprehensive amendment. This is precisely so that each of you can consider helping the affected region, who has never had it easy and who has always struggled courageously with his fate. It's a step that each of you will show that you're ready to help. I personally believe that The Moravian-Silesian region deserves it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Birke will continue to speak in the debate. Mr Klaus will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to speak about another city, which, of course, may be part of the new amendment. However, allow me not to put down the seriousness of the debate, because I want to appreciate Milan Hnilička's team, but also the rapporteur, that the debate has actually begun after x years on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And I think there's a whole social interest here, and I think even the political interest in moving the sport and getting it into a completely different category than it is today. It is generally known that I am not only a sports promoter. It is true that at the end of World War II, I even played it professionally as Milan Hnilička, but I could not prove such greats as Milan Hnilička, which was ice hockey. But today I am looking at it from the position of mayor, and I must say that if we support it, and there are over 6,000 mayors in the Czech Republic, and I think that a number of colleagues are sitting with me today in the benches, so many of them, I must say that today without financial support, individual clubs, sports clubs, falcons, and others, which we have in our communities, cities which, of course, operate sports. From my point of view, I dare to justify actually two, virtually. one set of amendments, which I will also like to put forward as a colleague of Roman Kubíček from the coalition bench of the ANO movement, when we together prepared just with the petitioner, and I would like to say, with the petitioner Milan Hnilička, who responds to a comprehensive amendment, as the rapporteur said about the fact that he is actually the starting point, that all the amendments are glued to this comprehensive amendment, perhaps to the procedure that seems complicated at first glance, but we understand each other. So let me say that we have prepared a set of these amendments, and there are about nine of them. So let me justify this, together with my colleague Roman Kubíček. Point 1 to Section 1 is added to the text which defines sport as a publicly beneficial activity in the social interest. This addition follows a similar definition of sport in the European Parliament resolution in the 2008 White Paper on Sport. Point 2 (a) shall be added in particular to paragraph 1 to the definition of the main importance of promoting sport and tourism, once again in accordance with the European Parliament resolution in the 2008 White Paper on Sport. To point 3 - I am still talking about comparing the comprehensive amendment by Milan Hnilička. The text in point 1 of the comprehensive amendment, which is supplemented by the text in paragraph 8 of Section 2, which introduces the concept of a national sport organisation, is deleted. This definition was ambiguous and, moreover, unfounded and redundant in the text of the law. The original text of the law defines the concept of a sports organisation, which is also being worked with in the law and in the comprehensive amendment. To point number 4, the proposal newly and better and more clearly defines the definition of the register of sports organisations in Section 3e. Here I want to stop at the register that the rapporteur spoke of, which I think is 20 years of discipline, which is very complicated on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which means sports organisations, that is, sportsmen and sportsmen, giving the National Sports Agency the competence to define the scope of the data and how they are managed by their own decree. To paragraphs 5 to 7, the proposal adds to the text of the comprehensive amendment in Section 3f, which defines the scope of use of data from public administration information systems by the National Sports Agency from the basic population register, from the information system of the population and from the information system of foreigners, if necessary also the indication of the athlete's birth number as a data clearly defining the natural person, in accordance with the legal order of the Czech Republic and the legislation of the European Union. Point 8 is added to the proposal in Section 4 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. 1 to 3 § 4 of the unnamed Ministry, since most ministries of the Government of the Czech Republic are currently involved in the promotion and development of sport and sports infrastructure within their competences. It is assumed that, within the framework of its competences, their activities will be coordinated by the National Sports Agency. To point 9, and this is the last comprehensive amendment, this proposal is based on the fact that every year the repeated cyclical activity of sports organisations is an activity where its end is not clearly defined, from the point of view of the time when the activity ends and thus from the point of view of the output of what the activity will achieve, while the project is a time-limited effort towards creating a unique product or service. A project which is not an activity which is carried out repeatedly or according to a previously verified procedure and the application for a grant for that activity cannot have the formal necessity of the project. In such a case, the National Sports Agency may grant a subsidy to ensure the operation of the sport organisation according to pre-defined criteria. I apologize for the fact that this may seem very difficult, but on the other hand, it is a very competently drawn up set of amendments, especially under supervision, as I said, the petitioner, but also with a sports environment. This really is not a situation where two gentlemen, whether I or Roman Kubíček, would look out the window in the morning and write this set of amendments. I just want to say that the aim of this proposed set of amendments is therefore to clarify and better define or supplement the provisions of the comprehensive amendment of the already mentioned Member Milan Hnilička and other original Membership proposal by Milan Hnilička and others in the Houses of the Press 241, which complements Law 115. This is the first House document and a set of amendments. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, to take this opportunity to introduce the honourable House to the second amendment, which is again mine in the workshop, that is to say, Jan Birk and Roman Kubíček, when we would have just mentioned the register, and that is the amendment mentioned by the rapporteur, when in Section 3e including the title, the change in which I would like to quote, and that is, say, opposition, or not, forgive me, the second amendment against a colleague who has been read by my previous speaker, when in Section 3e the exact list of personal data which may be required and processed by the newly established administration for the purposes of its activities is added. The use of personal data, the date of birth and the residence of the natural person is not expected to continue and the use of birth numbers is assumed instead. It will therefore be possible to verify the truth in the register of registered personal data through the use of public administration information systems. This is a set of two amendments, respectively. one set of amendments and one amendment. And let me, Mr Vice-President, thank the honourable House, of course, for my attention, in a detailed debate, to the various House documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u19	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mr Ondřej Veselý apologizes from 18.20 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Václav Klaus is next in the general debate, Mr Zlesák will sign up. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u20	I'll save most of my energy for the third reading, but I guess you know I'm part of the critics of this law, so I'd ask the sport terminology of the government coalition: "Ivánek, my friend, do you really like the law? Really?" Because as a former rapporteur, I would really suspend myself over the way this law is prepared. Now, at second reading, we got a full revised draft of the petitioner. So we've been fighting about something here for seven hours last time, and finally, I respect that, and most of the Members have passed, and then we get a whole new document on the committees of a whole new law, completely revised. 65 amendments come into this - funny, thought-out ironically, serious, technical, and that's how we do it in doggy style and pussy making cake. [[18.30 hours]] Excuse me, I think that serious laws are meant to be passed by the government, to have a political agreement. If he wants to make a difference in sports, I would be very much in favour, for example, of young coaches cutting off a much larger proportion of the money from the system. Then it's really supposed to go through the resorts here, come in here, and the government coalitions will push it through, or they won't push it. But I consider this to be truly incredibly unhappy, and I'm sorry, you may feel that this is a bit of a waste of time that we're creating here, that in this way we're going to end up adding some hybrid shape to the law and it's going to come into force. So I'm glad I'm not the rapporteur anymore, that's what I said. So I guess that's it for today and I wish you the rest of Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u21	Good evening. Next in the debate is Mr Radek Zlesák. Please, you have the floor. - Favorite law, sorry. I'm sorry. I just sat here, so I haven't caught the order yet. So, Mr Stanjura with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u22	To balance the debate a little bit. First they were supporters, and now they're gonna talk to the law's opponents. I think Andrej Babiš is smart about this. If that government bill had been signed by the government, it would have had a much less chance than when Milan Hnilička, who has the respect of many of us in our professional careers, presented it. I think that's true, and let's speak frankly. If there was someone much more controversial in the place of the translator, politically, I think, the debate is much more passionate. And I don't feel comfortable ruining the work that Milan Hnilička is doing here either. I'm saying this quite frankly. My previous speaker, Mr Klaus, described exactly the legislative process that has been going on so far. We are actually at first reading, even though we say that we are at second reading because we are discussing a different bill from what we had at first reading. I think that's legitimate to admit. So we're actually skipping one reading. I will now note that actually members of other committees, because everyone is preparing amendments, actually preparing possible amendments to the original one and not to the new one. First of all. Two. I don't share the view that if something's going wrong, and that's probably what we agree on, I'm going to solve it by setting up a new institution. If you set up this institution, and I say you set it up on purpose, because I'm not gonna be up for it, we're never gonna cancel it again. That's what you have to say. Instead of testing the steps to improve the money distribution system, we simply create an institution. That's a really catty solution. It doesn't solve the problem. We believe that if we establish a new institution, it will work better. And since we've only had that for a few months now, and very often many of us talk about how sports are supported by municipalities, towns, regions, and that's true, do we have any numbers? Do we have the relevant numbers, how much is it in the Republic if we put it in the state? I know everyone knows for their town. And all we're talking about is the state pie. We don't talk about what cities and municipalities add. It is a worthy activity and it is a voluntary and conscious decision of a particular council. Same thing at county level. It should be much easier to get data from 13 regions and the capital city of Prague, it is not so difficult to know how much sport went into the area from regional budgets in 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015. We can compare it to the time when Sazka was still working before the athletes destroyed their own golden eggs. That's just the way it is. We don't have the numbers. And I have a hypothesis that I don't have, but if we add it up, the numbers are going to be high, it's going to be billions again, if we put in the investment money that each community invests from their budgets - the new sports grounds, the school gym repairs, the public sports grounds, the football stadium, the hockey stadium, the pool one, the other, etc. We have nothing to do with this, and as a remedy for solving problems, there is a proposal to set up a new institution. I also spent the debate with Milan Hnilička and I must say that pleasant and constructive. I'm one of those guys that the key problem is the payback of coaches. I really think that this is a key problem, that this is a thing that is very often done either for any or small money. But if we want results, we can't tolerate it and bet on the volunteering and willingness of these coaches. If we want to have results in professional sport, then we must have experts in youth. This is simply a relentless trend, we will not change that in the Czech Republic. Whoever starts late with sport, few will make it to the top level. Do we have conditions for that? Do we create conditions to keep talent from getting lost? Do we have the best in youth? It's like the motto: best coaches to youth. For 3,000 a month? Or $2,000 a month? Is that really where the best coaches go? I don't think so. This proposal doesn't solve it, and it can't even deal with it. Let's be fair. We cannot have in the law what percentage of money goes to which activity, but what is already a debate, for example, for the Education Committee, or for the Education, Youth and Sports Committee, when grant titles are published, how much in those grant titles should the government allocate to, for example, the reward of youth trainers. This is a legitimate debate within the state budget. But we are not engaged in this debate. We are dedicated to creating institutions. We already have an organizational structure, an estimate of the number of employees, an estimate of wage costs, but that doesn't bring anything positive or negative to the sport, so I don't just criticize. And that's what bothers me about the design. We're just chilling that by creating a new institution, we're gonna solve the problem. I guarantee you we won't. I remember the debate on the law on promoting sport in the last parliamentary term, when we gave no warning of the absurdities of this proposal - and the former Minister listens to me, it was she who pushed for us to have 6 243 plans for cities and municipalities, the concept of sport development in the territory. Why do we even have it? What's gotten better in that time? That was at least two years ago. What's improved? How is that better than it was? Nothing. Nothing at all! But we have a law that imposes this senseless obligation on everyone, even the smallest municipalities. For example, let us discuss the budgetary determination of taxes. But to do that, we need the numbers to know how much cities and municipalities invest in new sports sites, but also in the maintenance of existing sports sites. That's the same problem. Many sports sites, and even legendary, I would say which sports fans I count among know for years, and the state of many of them is trivial. We see our colleague Jakub Janda there. Ask him what condition the jumping bridge is in. But we have two years of valid amendment and we have transparent all superselection procedures, except that the followers of Jakub Janda have no place to jump in the Czech Republic. But we're gonna set up an agency, and next year, we're gonna have a lot of bridges. Do you really believe that? I just don't believe it! So, instead of focusing on the energy of those of us who really want to do this in detail, we focus on adapting and improving the existing system in order to take advantage of the undisputed experience of those colleagues who have them from local and regional levels, so we give our attention and energy to making amendments, writing paragraphs, rewriting, improving, adding, reducing. But the basic question should be before we embark on a bill that benefits when we adopt that law. And unfortunately, I don't know the answer to that question. I don't question many good intentions, I don't question that, full of faith that it will be better, I don't question that, but there's nothing in there that would warrant me to believe these good ideas, good ideas, good intentions. This is the biggest problem of this bill. And here's the legislative process. Now, aside from the fact that there wasn't a standard commentary procedure, I don't know why, if it's such a government priority! Why isn't it a government bill, with all due respect to Mr. Hnilička? You can't write that proposal from the benches. So let us be frank: who actually wrote the original bill and the comprehensive amendment? We can't ask Mr. Hnilička to write it! It's obvious. It's not a criticism of his character. So it's written by officials anyway, but the political responsibility lies with Milan Hnilička, not the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development or anyone else. The political responsibility is borne by Milan Hnilička and co-submitters. Yes, if it works, the well-deserved glory will be reaped by Milan Hnilička and his colleagues. But if it doesn't work, if it turns out those paragraphs aren't written well, then again, the political costs will not be borne by the officials who wrote it, but by us as the Chamber of Deputies. [[18.40 hours]] How many times have you met "Jesus, you approved something in the House"? It is very difficult to explain that there was a specific majority for this. And I'm often supposed to defend the bill when I vote against it, but that's already very, very complicated. So a request for a third reading: Consider once again whether we need another new one in the incredible amount of institutions we have. I'm sure you don't. That we should try to improve the existing system first. And I agree that it doesn't work well, only when all possible corrections in the existing system fail, then it is only possible to consider the creation of a new institution. This is really a solution that, although formally, is meant to bring something, but I'm afraid it's not really going to bring anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u23	So that was Mr Stanjura. And now here's a point of fact, but this is Mr. Milan Hnilička. And then, with priority rights, the rapporteur, Mr Juránek, also wanted to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u24	Thank you. I will only follow up quickly with my colleague, through the President, Stanjura. Yes, we also discussed it in a very positive way. Well, that's why we need a central administration, because we don't have that overview, because somebody wasn't paying enough attention to collecting overviews about how much money goes into this sport. And we're not responding to the current situation. We respond to the development of sport in the Czech Republic, which is not dependent on one or two years, but it is basically a long-term process when the sport and sport in the Czech Republic generally declines. That is why we are proposing a central administrative body that will systematically develop not only sport itself, but generally sports for all our children, and therefore it is the generation that is coming. Because at the moment, our children are in what condition they are, so this is a really unflattering situation. That is why we respond to the central administration in order to address this systematically. And maybe it's a bit of a misunderstanding, given my previous speakers, when we're talking about just trying to split money into sports. No, that's not the idea. We do not just want to divide money into sport, we want to grasp it, because where sport is currently at the Department of Education, it is a very important topic for the Czech Republic and it is a very complex topic which we also very much pursue. But sport is just as important to us, even if it's a little different. Perhaps even quickly enough, Mr Janda's proposal to Kuba through the President. It is not, as has been said, financing through cities or just with cities of co-financing. That's the way we want to go. And it's not that it's falling. On the contrary, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is going this way, when we are trying to pool money, so as to create new capacities in terms of sports facilities. So it's just the opposite. And it's part of the plan. Sorry, I didn't keep up the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u25	There. Thank you, too, for keeping time. And now, with the de facto remark of the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador. And Mr Stanjura will be prepared, also with de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u26	I thank Mr Hnilička for responding to President Stanjura's words. However, he didn't convince me at this point. On the contrary, I am clearly convinced that the body, the central body of the state administration, which is responsible for the management of sport, and this is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, could carry out this task in a sufficient way and sufficient to do so. And we don't need another institution, another office, another body. It's not gonna fix anything. And those problems that are in sports and sports financing, I don't hide them in any way. We've been talking about them over and over again. I will remind everyone that they arose mainly at a time when Sazka and the method of financing the sport that was based on this went bankrupt, and at the same time there were economic problems in the context of the financial crisis. And then the trouble went on. Yes, there was unsystematic funding, where instead of setting the sports budget already in the draft budget, money was added to the Chamber of Deputies meeting. This led to the creation of grant titles that did not always match the expectations of the sports public and did not always meet the political goals that we promised ourselves from them. But all that can be fixed by systematic work. It would be good if we agreed on how sport should be organised, how sport should be financed, what rules should be, across the political spectrum. All of this can be done, but it can still remain under the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. What we're doing here is that the debate in question, the important debate, the debate on a specific way of financing, the objectives of how the sport is to be supported, what it's supposed to be for, what it's supposed to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, and where it's going to be for. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is simply not going to help sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u27	Thank you. And now I have two factual points. The first is Mr Stanjura and Mrs Hyťhová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u28	Let's try to model the case of the agency being created. We know ourselves when we discuss the budget, how much the budget chapter will weigh in that budget, whose total expenditure will be in billions if we have 1,500 billion spending. I just don't understand. I really don't. I agree with Mr Hnilička on the need to improve the relationship with sport. But that's a key role in schools. School! Let us discuss how physical education works, whether good or bad. Whether it encourages kids to play sports. Even unorganized, not just organized. And we agree that the role, the physical education, will remain at the Ministry of Education. That's what it is. But he's gonna have an agency next door. How will this be coordinated? Who's gonna come up with ideas to improve that subject with physical education? The agency? The Ministry of Education? I don't think anybody's gonna end up. But he's gonna have his budget chapter, where there's gonna be billions of units. I think that's wrong. And that's what we agree with Milan Hnilička through the Vice-President. It's a problem, the physical upbringing. How will it help to improve the Agency's physical development? Simple question. I'd like a simple answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u29	Thank you. And now, then, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová to the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u30	So I would like to say our position on this proposal for the SPD. I believe, and it has already been said many times, that this really is not a good and systematic proposal, because I take the same view as my previous speakers, namely that the Ministry of Education has the opportunity to do so as the Ministry. And there's no need to set up a private agency. That's one thing. The other thing is that in sports it doesn't happen the way it should, it's just true. I told the Minister last year, for example. grant title My Club 2018 was written late, too many documents were requested from athletes, etc. And I believe that sport deserves improvement. But I don't think Mr. Fertilizer's agency with so many employees will be the future of sports. I think we need to focus on improvement, but certainly not another institution or a private agency. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u31	Well, thank you. And now two factual points have come up. The first is Mrs Procházková and Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u32	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I am only to my previous speaker through you, Mr President. Well, the law doesn't say anything about a private agency. That's probably some kind of mistake on my colleague's part. So please think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u33	Thank you. And Mr Klaus - so far the last de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u34	It's almost the end of the parliamentary day. When I listen to the debate, maybe I don't agree with Mr Stanjura completely on some things and we differ in the Facebook Act and so on. Now that I've listened to it, I'm sorry about what he said, you have absolutely nothing to say. You're the only one who always pulls out some of the problems that are in sports, no one denies it, but meritum is how this will be solved by a new state body with new officials. Nothing! So when you listen to yourself, there just wasn't an answer to the exact targeted questions. You can sit here, you can say it next time, but it didn't. And anyone who's watching it sees it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u35	Thank you. Now with the de facto, so far last, Mr. Milan Hnilička. If there is no next, then the rapporteur, Mr Juránek, will be prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u36	I only briefly, because decency is the answer when I was asked. The methodology of physical education is already being addressed with trainers from the sports environment and within the extra hour of movement, which is a project that has a future, which is also very much discussed on the school committee and in the school environment. Well, that's just involving coaches in methodology. Today, we talk about it first and foremost in the first degree. So it's not like they don't use the sports environment. When we talk about the central administration, it's not just the officials, it's the methodology. We've talked about this before, but I don't want to argue anymore. Of course, if we go into the logic of the matter, yes, we wouldn't have to set up a central administration if it hadn't been done so far, if the sport had been taken better, long-term, and unfortunately it isn't, and that's why we're reacting this way. And that is why we react mainly at the initiative of the sports environment, because sport is apolitical and where we come from with sport and sports, I repeat myself again, so this is the reaction to that. So maybe it would also be good for us to be interested in giving teachers or gym teachers better conditions for working with children, with the smallest ones, so that they can be rescued as before. I agree, it all starts with gym class and kindergarten. Absolutely. The Ministry of Education will always be a big part of the sport of children. That's where it all starts, which we can definitely agree on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u37	Thank you. We have two more facts, so Mr Stanjura and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u38	Thank you for your answer, but Mr. Hnilička didn't answer my question, so I'll repeat it. The question was how the creation of the Agency would help improve the subject of physical education, especially in primary schools. That was a question. And the second question that came to mind. When this agency comes into existence, does it go into the law of competence and rename the Ministry? We have the Ministry of Education. Everyone knows that. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. And then we'll have an agency. Will it still be the Department of Physical Affairs, or won't it? And that's not like a funny question or a simple question. That's a serious matter. The authors of this bill do not count, or do not take into account the law of competence. And he's very clear: he's responsible for the corpse. If you're going to make it a MSM, please, but it's supposed to be in this bill or next to it. So let's say it again. So the agency's gonna be created, and who's gonna be responsible for the body work? The Ministry of Education or the Agency? Here again, I would like a simple answer to this simple question. We can't say that they're both going to cooperate. What's that? There's no such thing. I apologize to Mr. Hnilička. That's an absurd official language. How do we want to help sports? It's a question. And the answer: We will set up a central government body. That's enough. There is nothing more we need to say about the bill, who wants, heard the question, and heard this absurd answer from my point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u39	Thank you. I'm gonna read an apology real quick, 'cause time is coming to get to it at all. Between 18.30 and 19.00, Mr Ondřej Profant apologizes for the hearing. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, will be prepared with the de facto Member of the rapporteur, Mr Juránek, you would probably not have gotten to the floor otherwise. After that, Mr. Marek Novák. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, of course, refer to what my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party have said here. It leads me to this for a number of reasons. As mayor of the Prague 2 district, I am in charge of education. I would like to ask you, through Mr Hnilička, when was the last time he took a look at some kind of gym class, let's say, in elementary school. I don't really have any information about how, in our first-degree schools, as has been said here, coaches who would discuss how to insert more movement into the curriculum of physical education, maybe even return to Tyrš's sokol versatility. What most of us, our generation of Husákův's children, had to climb on a pole, on a rope, jump over a goat, through a Swedish box, measured it for us and had to meet standards, I would see this as an appropriate form of action for people around sports in our schools to motivate educators through the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to return to our curriculum. They're really connected containers, because unfortunately, a lot of kids apologize from gym class. He apologizes for various reasons. Sometimes the problem is medical, sometimes it's not. So that, too, is what the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports should be dealing with, not some central body.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Juránek, rapporteur. Please, your two minutes. Mr. Marek Novák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to respond to what has now been said here through the President in the first place from my colleague Stanjura, whom I do not see here anymore. He's here, I just haven't seen him. So now I'm clearly saying two things. The first is that the comprehensive proposal was agreed by the first resolution and comments will be made on it. They're all respected. I am saying this so that it is clear that the clear legal procedure in this matter has been followed and that these comments have been made very clear. That's the first thing. The second thing that we are still explaining is that this is not a law on sport, which will subsequently resolve matters, through the President, which was mentioned by, for example, the previous speaker, Černochová, a colleague, but the law on sport is not here. There is only a law on promoting sport. And the Sport Support Act has its own defined space, and within this space, it is clearly moving in a direction that, instead of dividing the sport money by the Ministry of Education, it will be distributed by the Agency. It's not a competence dispute, it's just a design of a technical solution that's designed in this way at the moment. This means that we are not here to discuss whether the state of health of our youth will be addressed by the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Health. We are not even here to intervene in conflicts of competence, but to find a way to get funds to them in favour of organizations who work in sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u43	With another de facto Member, Mr Marek Novák. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, I do not know what we have right now for the discussion, however, body versus sports support, I take physical as part of the promotion of sport. Sports support is a complex, and within that complex, I see body building as a part of it. I have no problem with the Ministry of Education and Sporting of the National Agency. It's perfectly normal. And you're completely forgetting that in the first place, you need to support families in the sport. That's the basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u45	Thank you. There is still time, so also Mr Bělica. I'll give you some space, I thought it would work out, but of course I'll let you finish those two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to speak in support of this upcoming law, because in addition to the fact that it has a lot of work on it, it has to do with the whole issue of promoting this sport and preparing young people for future life. This sport is a huge part of children's lives, and as my previous speaker and family have said here. It's not just about promoting the most successful and top sports, but it's about connecting. About linking the content of teaching in schools and the interconnection of sport organised. I think it's very important. And a national sports agency can help. It has been said here several times that we simply have a problem with the promotion of sport. We simply have a problem with investing in sports infrastructure, and we need to grasp the problem over the long term. And I think the National Sports Agency will help us do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-008-014.u47	Thank you. And since we have 19 hours, I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 tomorrow. Have a good evening.
