ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u1	3. Draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties /German press 256/7 - returned by the Senate I note that the Senate has returned the bill with the amendment. His resolution was recommended to us as House Press 256/8. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Jiří Dienstbier among us, and I ask that Minister of Culture Zaorálek, who represents Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore draw your attention to the Law on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, which was approved in this House in 2016. The aim of the law, which was passed here, was the electronicisation and overall fundamental modernisation of the entire lawmaking process. So that's what we adopted here in 2016. And that proposal is now implementing the necessary amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Constitutional Court Act and other laws, and at the same time the proposal that we have here will set a new date for the effectiveness of the entire legislation of the electronic legislative process as well as the electronic Collection of Laws. The whole system, as it was designed, would be put into sharp operation only on January 1, 2022. I would like to remind you that the similar proposal was already approved by the Government of the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term (?) and became part of the assignment of the technical solution of the project eSummary and eLegislativa. The Chamber of Deputies approved the proposal as amended by the amendments, as you may recall. First of all, the Senate's amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which was intended to enable the Senate to prepare its own amendment to this law, which would also take account of the electronicisation of the legislative process. And, of course, the Home Office has declared that it is ready to provide the Senate with all the necessary cooperation and synergies. The Chamber of Deputies also launched amendments to the electoral laws during the hearing. So the electoral laws have also been dropped because they merely reflect the new title of the Collection of Laws, with the fact that these changes can be implemented within the following wider amendments to the electoral laws, some of which are submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Other amendments approved in the House introduce so-called single days of legal effectiveness, which means that legislation should in principle take effect only on 1 January or on 1 July of each calendar year unless there are exceptional cases. This also introduces an obligation to submit an informative overview of the public obligations arising from the draft legislation, the amendment and the international treaties. And now we come to the fact that the Senate has returned the proposal to us, i.e. to the Chamber of Deputies, with an amendment replacing the whole text of the bill only with provisions on the postponement of the new Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties from 1 January 2020 to 1 January 2022, and the rest of the amendment law is to be deleted. Now, the position on this Senate proposal. I'm here to interpret the opinion of the Home Office that we can't agree for several reasons. First of all, it is necessary to approve the amendments relating to the introduction of the electronic legislative process and the electronic Collection of Laws, which will clarify both the creation and publication of the law, and the adoption of the proposal in the version approved by the Chamber of Deputies is necessary for the continuation of the long-term eLegislative project. The Senate seems to propose that the main parts of the proposal be deleted because the 30-day deadline for examining the bill by the Senate is too short after the introduction of eLegislativa. I should point out here now that the extension of the 30-day term of the Senate to the negotiation of laws could have a positive effect on the resulting quality of the approved proposals, but it is not directly related to the eLegislativa. The introduction of the electronic legislative process, on the contrary, will make the bills in the Senate more transparent and quicker, especially because an updated version of the proposal will be constantly available, not just the text of the amendments. So, given these facts, I would like to ask you to support the bill in the wording we approved here in the House. I'm sorry to get into a fight with my colleague, my friend, Jiří Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u3	And it is Senator Dienstbier who should now take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u4	Mr Vice-President, Madam Members, Minister Zaorálek here described the process and the resulting proposal that the Senate sends back to the Chamber of Deputies. The essence of the change is that, from the whole proposal, it leaves only a delay in the effectiveness of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties for two years, i.e. on 1 January 2022. The reason for this Senate proposal is, as has already been mentioned here, that the Senate's Rules of Procedure and then the electoral laws, that is, all the laws which, according to Art. 40 Constitutions need the Senate's approval as well. We considered it quite obvious that this was the position of the Ministry of the Interior in particular, which quite urgently needs two years of delay, because the system for electronic legislation is not prepared, and therefore the urgency of this delay, because I understand that from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, it cannot take effect from the point of view of the law which counts on a system that does not exist and cannot arise until then. That is why we have not accepted the proposal by rejecting it, but we have adopted an amendment that leaves a delay in the effectiveness of the Collection of Laws itself. What is important is, as has also been said here, that the new Act on the Collection of Laws and the follow-up amendment law should have ensured a newer system of legislative negotiations, especially its electronicisation, throughout the negotiations from the very beginning, from the creation of the proposal to the House, in the Senate, the President's signature, i.e. all stages. By excluding the Senate's Rules of Procedure from the amendment law for the reasons I mentioned, the entire system of electronic legislation would not actually work at the moment. Indeed, he would only work in a partial way, which is totally against the principles of the proposed change, because it would work on the Senate wall, and then again from the moment that the Senate would possibly return the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps it is not very systemic to want to discuss everything electronically, then to convert from electronic to written form in the Senate, then on the way back from the Senate to the House from written to electronic form. Therefore, the Senate believes that its proposal addresses the situation, because it delays its effectiveness. This allows the Ministry of the Interior to create an appropriate information system, while also allowing room for a change law to be submitted to address all phases of the electronic legislative process, including the Senate. It is true that, although not immediately, but in fact from the Senate's point of view, this amendment binds the Senate proposal that you have here in the House to extend the time limit for the negotiation of bills in the Senate, because, and here I would agree only partially, the electronic legislation really aims to improve the legislative process, because if we also discuss draft laws electronically in the Senate, we will have an electronic history, including changes that have taken place during the legislative process, it will be clearer for us. The problem is, however, that all suggestions, respectively. The original, which has not yet ruled out the Senate's Rules of Procedure, so they counted on some technological deadlines, and it needs to be realised that when we have a 30-day deadline in the Constitution, we really do not have 30 days to discuss it. To clarify, this is because of the House's proposal, we are beginning to run out of time, but an organizational committee has to meet, which has yet to allocate draft laws. Our legislation is working on an opinion, and then, of course, we can't leave it for the last day of the plenary session, because if our meetings were delayed, it would be a 30-day deadline. That means we've got a little over two weeks in real life. If electronic legislation introduces otherwise improving rules that we need to put something into the system in advance, that we may have to interrupt a meeting, we basically do not have room to discuss proposals for which substantial amendments are tabled. It really ties us to it, even if it's not directly legally linked. They're not formally dependent on each other. These are the reasons why this motion came from the Senate. I would also mention the two amendments that were adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies on the original government proposal, i.e. a summary of the legislative obligations and fixed effective dates as at 1 January, respectively. July 1st. These are undoubtedly not the main reasons for the proposal that came from the Senate, but I do not regard them as undoubtedly positive either, although I do not doubt the good intentions behind them. In this review of legal obligations, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this will be a significant burden on the administration, especially for the resortive legislation, because, in addition to the draft laws themselves, they will be processing the overviews. But there is also a risk to the recipient to whom the good intention was directed in an attempt to help them. But the proposal assumes that an overview of legal obligations will not be binding. There's gonna be a binding legal standard, and there's gonna be a non-binding review next door. This creates a risk that if someone, some recipient of that standard, is in good faith to follow an overview that is inaccurate, and then the court, for example, interprets the legal obligations differently in any dispute, then sanctions may fall upon him, even if he behaves in good faith according to the overview. Moreover, in the case of codes, it is indisputable that a criminal code contains public obligations and, of course, sanctions. The idea that the first amendment to the Criminal Code will be presented, if it is a government amendment, that is, according to the proposal, an overview of the legal obligations for all public obligations in quotation marks and their subsequent sanctions in the Code of Criminal Procedure, I think that the consequences of such a proposal were also unforeseen. For this reason, critical discussions have also been held in the Senate on this matter. And as for fixed terms of effectiveness, I don't doubt the good intentions, either, but the way it's set up, I think there'll still be a reason to set it differently in three quarters of cases. If you get an overview of the laws you adopt here, you will find that you usually need efficiency at some other date. There are set exceptions when it can be specified otherwise. It is an urgent public interest, there are particularly serious consequences, which could be linked to the fixed date of effectiveness. I do not consider these things to be indisputable either, but the proposal, as it came from the Senate, a change that leaves only two years of the basic collection law, was motivated by the procedure of negotiation and, in our view, the unacceptable fact that the electronic legislative process would not work at all stages, that it would actually be eliminated for the Senate negotiation phase and that it would translate between the House, the Senate and then back between the Senate and the House first from electronic to paper and then from paper into electronic form. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the Senate version. As I said, it leaves room for both the creation of an information system and the presentation of a change law that provides a comprehensive electronic legislative process at all levels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u5	I thank the Senator, and before we open the debate, the rapporteurs of the committees that have dealt with this proposal have the opportunity to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. Mr Jakub Michálek was rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, the Constitutional Legal Committee. Is he interested in expressing himself before the debate? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we really want and should strive to ensure that there is finally an electronisation of the legislative process. Unfortunately, the proposal came back from the Senate so that there is only a tiny part of it that all the necessary changes to the related legislation have been released. We expected that since we had separated the Senate from it, perhaps the Senate would propose some sort of customization needed in its Rules of Procedure, when it did not like how it was prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, and put us in a very unpleasant position, that it gave us some ultimative demands on how to change the Constitution, otherwise it would not support the proposal. This would cause total legislative chaos because, on the one hand, the Law on the Collection of Laws, which regulates how the electronic legislative process should work, and on the other hand, we would have incompatible change laws. So basically, unfortunately, it didn't quite work out here in the Senate. The Senate went the other way. Instead of taking care of the quality and indisputability of the rule of law, he basically threw in a legislative bomb. [[17.40 hours]] Unfortunately, in the current situation, there remains a lack of consistency, which lies in the fact that the process in the Senate is not precisely regulated - that is true. At the same time, the Act on the Collection of Laws is fully applied, which states, for example, that the preparation of legislation takes place in the information system according to the Act on the Collection of Laws. So it's not like the senators don't have any responsibilities. Those obligations, which are general in the Act on Collection of Laws, will undoubtedly apply and will run, I suppose, along with the test operation and then with sharp operation. In the future, what still needs to be done is that either the Senate itself or, as the case may be, the Ministry in some accelerated regime, after consulting the Senate, submit a draft amendment law to the Senate's Rules of Procedure. But I believe that we as the Chamber of Deputies should no longer delay the introduction of an electronisation of the legislative process. And it is without any doubt that if we were to accept the Senate amendment, we would have to do it all again, the electronization, because let us be aware of the very basic fact that the information system supplier has to program the information system under the applicable legislation, and if they currently have no valid legislation, or it is in an uncertain regime where the huge package of legislation is not clear whether it will be adopted or not, then the public contract cannot be properly implemented, or the extended support services would have to be done to include all the changes that will result from the legislative process. That is why it is absolutely right that if we approve the bill today, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, we will overrule the Senate and launch the electronicisation of the legislative process. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u7	Thank you. Before we open the debate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ondřej Profant, can also comment if he is interested. I see no interest, so I am opening up a debate at the moment. Into it is the first signed up by President Michálek. [[This is Ambassador Valachová.]] I am aware of that, but I can make a factual point when someone comes forward in the debate. This has not yet happened, but Mr Kupka is in the debate. And then there will be a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief comment on what actually happened in the Senate. It sounded like it was during the Senate debate. Yes, there's been a brutal sharpening. In this case, I quote literally, the brutal sharpening in effect threatens the functionality of what the Chamber of Deputies has adopted. In addition, there are two specific measures falling out, for which there has been a cross-cutting consensus and which really leads to a clearer legal order in the Czech Republic. And this is the accent I want to stress again. As the table of obligations for which, by the way, the eCollection in the tender procedure, as prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, remembers, so that it does not remain heard, so that the technical solution does not eventually need to be further sought, so that the two days when the laws of effectiveness can take place in the Czech Republic, that is inspiration from the world, from many countries where it works well, and it really contributes to the fact that the Czech public would then have more certainty, greater legal certainty. It would be easier to focus on what is affecting her, both from obligations and from other legal regulations. Thank you very much for your attention. I firmly hope that here in the Chamber of Deputies will be able to defend again what we have already dealt with once and have approved it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u9	Thank you. There are now factual points in this order: Mr Václav Klaus, Mrs Valachová. [[Mrs Valachová is on her way to the counter.]] I apologise, Madame, before you is Mr Klaus, and then you are next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u10	So simplifying the right for citizens would be if some laws were abolished. There's an electronic system just finishing up here. If I remember correctly, it was the ODS lobbyist, Mr. Zajíček, who somehow played the pirát for it. But I still don't understand what the simplification of the legislative process is about. The legislative process would be if some laws were abolished, or at least they had fewer paragraphs. This would be a simplification of the legislative process. We're talking about a system that's gonna be implemented. So don't talk about a cross-section agreement. I don't have it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u11	Mrs Valachová, a point of fact. Then Mr. Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u12	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, I am sending to support the House's government version, but... I'd like to turn against what was said on the counter, some thought about the Senate blackmailing someone. There's no way that's true. The Senate sent a Senate motion to amend the Constitution, suggesting we need 60 days instead of 30. I, as the former head of Senate legislation, have to convince the Senate that this is not politics. Indeed, in connection with methods and technology, in fact, the new legislative process of the Senate needs more time and we should respect this as a second chamber. And I would also like to take advantage of the situation, because today, as President of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, I have discussed amendments to the Constitution with the President of the Republic, and as regards the extension of the deadline from thirty to sixty days, I just want to say that the President of the Republic has expressed support or consent if you wish. As well as regarding the discussions of the Permanent Commissions for the Senate and the House, since we have met both committees on Senate soil in recent weeks, the extension of the deadline from thirty to sixty days has been supported. The diaper hasn't discussed it yet. I'm sure we'll act. The Constitutional and Legal Committee will act. But I mean, it's absolutely, absolutely legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u13	Thank you. Mr Kupka with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u14	Unfortunately, I must say that my colleague Klaus is in this case next to the fir. These are concrete measures that really contribute to making laws easier, making them clearer when they take effect. It won't be such a mess, and the situation won't be as complicated for everyone, even for school directors as it is at the moment. As far as the table of obligations is concerned, this is a concrete aid to all who are difficult to find in law, and ultimately very important help for the state to know what is actually everywhere in those laws. Because today and for skilled legislation, it is difficult to navigate. And for us as legislator, I think it will be an important crutch to make the House more moderate to the adoption of new laws and new laws, because from that moment on, everyone will have to justify it properly if he proposes an obligation, whether it is really appropriate to impose such a thing on people. In this respect, I see the measure as very useful and will clearly aim to make it more difficult to accept nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u15	Thank you. Mr Klaus with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u16	So, Mr Kupka, through Mr President, when you take the headmaster into your mouth, they are mostly legal, they can read the law. It's called the school code. I did it, too. There's really no problem with that. The problem is that we didn't have any school law, and now we have about 300-page and follow-up decrees. So I'm just very skeptical that the next one, plus electronic measures, will make these directors better in some way. So that's where we're different. And I'd keep the food debate when we talk about crusts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u17	There is no further written application for a debate or for a factual comment. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. It doesn't, so I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Mr. Senator, Mr. Minister? Minister, then. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u18	I just maybe, it seems to me that the debate was heard, I think it was a Member of Michálek, who probably said it absolutely essential. The Senate won't get out of this eLegislativa. She'll have to follow the already approved main law. And it has two years to adjust its rules of procedure where appropriate. That's what it said. I think that's true, so I'm just gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u19	Thank you. Final word, Senator Dienstbier. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to respond in particular to Mr Michálek's speech, but I do not judge it at all as Minister Zaorálek. Mr Michálek here said that if he wanted the Senate, he could have supplemented some of the Senate's own rules of procedure. I don't know if it was meant for this bill. The Senate could not do this, according to the consultations that we have made with the legislation, because we would change the constitutional regime for negotiating this bill. Because by knocking out the laws under Article 40, it's a law under the ordinary regime, and that's how it was sent to the Senate. At the moment that we were supplementing the 40th law back into the law, we would have changed this constitutional regime and that was not possible according to the legislation. So we couldn't include this modification. As for the Senate's need to follow the Law Collection, the House and the Senate must undoubtedly follow the rule of law in force, but if it should be interpreted as meaning that the House thinks that it will eliminate the amendment to the Senate's Rules of Procedure, it will add some provisions to the Collection Law, so if it should be an indirect amendment to the Senate Rules of Procedure, it is, of course, a violation of Article 40 of the Constitution, because this circumvents the rule that the Senate must agree to the rules of its own conduct. Thus, it was not possible for the House to bypass the Senate by eliminating the Senate's Rules of Procedure, and they would adjust the rules elsewhere, because some, even those supplemented by the provisions of the Collection Law actually interfere with the Senate's procedures. That's not possible. Again, I would point out that if the Rules of Procedure are not amended, there is no guarantee that, even during those two years, the House will agree on the form of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. This means that at the moment the regulation is leaky and electronic legislation cannot work at all levels, because we in the Senate do not have rules at the moment to proceed in electronic legislation at all stages. Yes, if we're going to convert from electronic to paper, then we're going to convert back from paper to electronic if we're going to send something to the House, and that's really completely pointless. It is an incomplete modification, and as I said, by bringing it back and leaving space for the Ministry of the Interior, because there has been a two-year delay, so there is enough time to present a comprehensive amendment law covering all phases of the electronic legislative process and at the same time the space needed by the Ministry of the Interior to create the information system. And the basic legal rules on how the electronic legislative process is supposed to work are in the collection law itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-002-003.u21	Thank you, Mr. Senator. That was the final word, and we are approaching the vote. Once again, I have called for Members who are not present in the Chamber. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mr Jan Zahradník apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 17.30 to the end of today's day for personal reasons. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. Before I read the motion for a resolution, I will sign you off. Please log in with your voting cards again. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, according to the Chamber of Press 256/7, as approved by the Senate, according to the Chamber of Law 256/8." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 22, 167 Members signed up, for 9, against 79. It means that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will now vote again. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt this resolution require the approval of an absolute majority of all Members, the consent of 101 Members. This majority is set. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended by the Senate, according to the Parliament's Press 256/7.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 23, 169 Members voted in favour of 166, against 3. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the Senator, the Minister, and I finish discussing this point. From today's meeting between 5:30 and 20:00, Mrs Adamová apologizes for reasons of work. We will now proceed to discuss the point at which
