ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-012-244.u1	244. Proposal for confirmation by the Chairs of the Chamber of Deputies Committees According to Article 50 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (s) our Rules of Procedure confirm the Chairs of the Committees in their office after the election of the Committee of the Chamber of I would like to inform you that the Social Policy Committee met on 3 October 2019 and elected its new Chair. Ms Jana Pastuchová became President of the Social Policy Committee. I would also like to inform you that a foreign committee met on 16 October and also elected its chairman. Member Ondřej Veselý became chairman of the Foreign Committee. Initiating debate. I have no one registered for the debate, so I am ending the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will arrange for the Members to be called to the Chamber of Deputies. [[He's waiting a while.]] There. I will now make motions for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms Ms Jana Pastuchová as Chair of the Committee on Social Policy'. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 55, 183 Members signed up, for 139. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] I note that we have confirmed the Chair of the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. We will vote on another motion for a resolution, which I will now read: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms Mr Ondřej Veselý as President of the Foreign Committee'. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 56 registered 183 Members, for 138, against 1. And I note that we have confirmed the President of the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Let's hear it.]] This is the end of this point. We will now open another item in today's agenda for the Chamber of Deputies meeting. This is about
