ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u1	317. Oral inhalation Interpelations are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole and to other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to the intersecting Members and the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intervention on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersions on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Mr František Kopřiv, who is drawn in the first place to bring an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrej Babiš, Mr Alena GajdůGajdůšková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, your social networks have recently been making various contributions on how you are attending meetings and conferences on increasing birth rates. That is surely a godly activity. However, I'm missing an important Stakeholder in these photos, and these are the women themselves. So I'd be interested in this government's position on gender equality. The government's report on gender equality for 2018 will soon be at the meeting, and there are some disturbing reports in this document. According to the OECD Social Institutions and Gender Index, we are among the three countries with the greatest inequalities between women and men in Europe. According to this report on gender equality, women's representation in decision-making positions and wage inequality are among the weakest aspects of this society. The average pay gap is the second worst in Europe. Even taking into account the different career choices, the average pay gap in the same position is 11 percent. So, for example, a woman with an average salary gets about 4,000 less than a man would get in the same position. This is reality, the report is talking about it. You'll discuss it with the government. And I ask you, Prime Minister, as Prime Minister of Women and Men Equality, what plan do you have in this and whether you will do something about it and, if necessary, what concrete steps do you intend to take? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u3	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister is excused and will respond in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to your intervention within 30 days. In the next interview, Mr Alena GajdůGajdůšková and Mr Profant will speak, because I believe that Mrs Kovářová has withdrawn the interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u4	Hello, esteemed colleagues. Prime Minister, I begin by saying that I respect the rules and decisions on granting subsidies to non-profit organisations and support this support. It is necessary, especially for those organizations that do the necessary services for the state. I ask, however, how should the organisation providing very necessary and unique care in the field of health-social boundaries, which was rejected without further delay after several years of its activities and its subsidy support by the Office of the Government. For all others, I am talking specifically about the Cerebrum association providing care to persons with acquired brain damage. This association has been placed on the list of applications for grants for 47th place and the request has been rejected. In doing so, the Office of the Government states on its website that the subsidy was granted to a total of 57 applicants. Cerebrum has existed since 2007. In that time, it has helped to return to a full life, or at least increase the quality of life, to around 2,000 people. They're patients from strokes or head traumas. On a non-profit basis, the company provides comprehensive rehabilitation and assistance to both patients and their families in a treatment phase that no longer falls under medical care and is therefore not covered by public health insurance. It is these healing stages and support over time that are crucial for people with acquired brain damage for the next quality of their lives. Recovery of self-service capability, strengthening cognitive functions and further improvement of the patient's physical and mental state are very important not only for patients and their families, but in the final stage the entire company will return in lower health and social spending. The association not only cares about specific patients, but also trains the methodology that they have developed themselves thanks to past support from the Office of the Government. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So I ask and ask for information on how this association should proceed. I also ask whether you are considering introducing support for non-governmental non-profit organisations as systemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u5	Thank you. I'd like to ask for more accurate time. Mr Holomčík apologizes to us from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Now, please, Mr Profant, who is committed to interpelling the copyright directive - we will support Poland. Mr Mihola will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u6	Mr Prime Minister, Poland has brought an action before the European Court of Justice against Article 17 of the Copyright Directive. This article introduces very dangerous robotic internet filters. These will automatically evaluate the content and delete it automatically. It's practically going to be censored. We have had an independent legal analysis drawn up which confirms that, as in Poland, this article is contrary to the right to freedom of expression and therefore to our constitutional order. I therefore ask you what position the Czech Republic will have. Will we join Poland and other states that are fighting Article 17?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u7	Thank you and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days. I now beg Mr Mihola, who will interpel in the matter of family admission, support for families and education. Mr. Rakušan will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u8	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, I am pleased to agree that our country needs more children. That's why I'm asking you to really, really support families with more children. I'm interrogating you on the so-called family entrance fee. I've visited dozens of monuments and other attractions of our beautiful country, but unfortunately, it looks like we're hitting the politics of two children and enough. The family entrance involves two adults and two children, tops, three children. In this country as a family, you give more with more children. You are trying to raise decent and educated citizens, but she will take more from you, more precisely from children who are over two or three, to family tickets. For example, in our chateaus and other recreational and educational facilities, a supernumerable child must have his child's ticket in quotation marks, but it is more expensive than averaged entry for adults and children on family tickets. Another way. When you come with five or six children, when you use the available discounts, you pay on average more than when you arrive with two or one child. Is that normal? I don't think so. Sometimes the difference smells like discrimination. On the widely visited Trail into the cloud in the lower Moravia is optimal input 2+3. That'll cost one of this family 200 crowns. Somehow, other children don't count anymore, so you'll pay 370 crowns each. Kind of a big difference, don't you think? Prime Minister, I'm asking you: do we want two or three children's policies here, or do we really need those children? If so, will we be able to secure this correction? I'm available to you with my experience, suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u9	I also thank you, and the Prime Minister will respond to your interpelation within 30 days in writing. And now I beg Mr Rakušan, who will interpel in the matter of hate speech in society. Mr. Feri will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Mr. absent, unfortunately absent Prime Minister Babiš, I would like to ask you whether you are watching the media, whether you are reading the media that is writing about how Mrs. Jana Filipová is doing. The lady who first won the lawsuit with you. The lady you're supposed to apologize to - you appealed - for accusing her of being a paid protester. For receiving money for protesting your policies against you and your government. The court has done something, and I don't even want you to appeal, you have the right, we're in the state of law, thank God for that. Call back, and if the court makes the same decision again, then, of course, I expect you to apologize one day. I'm asking you to do something different now. I have a favor to ask you. Do you know what your supporters say to this lady? Such a crooked bitch to look for! That woman is a fucking moron! She deserves to be beaten with a shovel! Dear Prime Minister, you are not just the Prime Minister of your constituents! Ideally, whether we want to or not, you are Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. A person who should ensure that culture and expression and interpersonal relations in our society are of an amount. I'm asking you to do one simple thing. Even if you do not apologize, because it is a first-instance decision, I beg you to invite your supporters to stop threatening a woman who is on the verge of a psychic breakdown and who has only and only exercised her civil rights, who only and only asked in a court of law to apologize to her and even win in a first-instance court! [[Talks Urgently]] Please, do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u11	Thank you for keeping time and thank you very much for this interpelation. The Prime Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Feri, who will interpel in the matter of same-sex marriages. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear absent Prime Minister, a long time ago, together with the other dozens of colleagues, we have tabled a bill that would finally allow the same sex couples to get married. Your first government supported this proposal. In this context, let me ask you a few questions. Will the YES movement support the firm inclusion of the discussion of this proposal in the foreseeable term? If so, under what conditions? Second, what is your personal position on allowing identical sex marriages? Three. The government decides in the congregation, and this matter has not been voted on by the government. Yet, in your opinion, what is the view of your government on this matter? Thank you for your reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u13	Thank you, the Prime Minister will respond to your interview in writing within 30 days. And now I ask Mr Výborný, who will interpelise on the preparation of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU in 2022, and Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the preparation of the Czech Republic for the Presidency of the EU Council in the second half of 2022. According to information from the various departments of your government, as a government, you intend to significantly reduce the budget of our Presidency in the Council in the framework of the Presidency of the EU Council by up to one quarter. A total of 137 comments were made by the Ministry on the financing plan, which unfortunately remain unsolved until today. This approach is seriously threatened by an international disgrace when the Czech Republic will not be able to meet the obligations of the EU Member State, in a situation where we will chair the Council in the middle of the mandate of the European Commission and there will be a number of negotiations under trialogues with the European Parliament and the Commission, which the Czech Republic, as President, must hold. There is a risk that we will not have enough representatives to conduct key negotiations within the Council of the European Union, as well as a minimum strengthening of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Brussels and representation in Brussels will not even have individual ministries. And I am saying that the Presidency also shows a number of responsibilities towards negotiations in the Czech Republic, in the regions, and this is, of course, related to the promotion and presentation of the Czech Republic. Prime Minister, I ask you how you understand the concept of the Presidency. Are you really saying that the Presidency has no role in the European Union? Doesn't he bring anything? Doesn't that make it possible? By the way, this is completely in contrast with the fact that the government, under your leadership, has long advocated that the European Council and the Commission should only be an administrative apparatus. Are you really saying that the Presidency is not a priority for the members of the government? Is it really true that it is beyond the budgetary planning horizon and beyond the policy planning horizon, and does the government not want to address this Presidency because it does not see it as a current problem? Elections to the Chamber of Deputies will take place no later than nine months before the Presidency, and at that point nothing will be possible due to the length of competitions, clearances, preparation of public contracts and so on. [[Time warning]] Prime Minister, do you really want to gamble with the reputation of the Czech Republic with our partners in the European Union? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u15	Thank you, please, for trying to keep time. I'm going to introduce you to a note. Mr Grospič apologizes to us from today's meeting due to a delayed return from a foreign business trip. And now please Mr Kaňkovský, who will interpelise on the state of Czech health, and then again, Mr Výborný according to what I have so far - and he is downloading it. In that case, please, Mr Kaňkovský. In any case... if Mr Kaňkovský is not present or not interested, please Mr Feri, who should interpel in the case of a single board of directors. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I address you not only as Prime Minister but also as a longtime entrepreneur. The Ministry of Justice has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss an amendment to the Trade Corporations Act, which can dramatically make the situation particularly difficult for small, medium and family stock companies. The modification of the so-called monistic system of the internal structure of the public limited liability company has allowed only one person to exercise the powers of the board of directors. In practice, a vast majority decided for such board of directors, a circus of 90 percent of all such monistic stock companies. The proposed amendment now obliges the Management Board to have at least three members. This means that these small, medium-sized and family businesses will have to find two more people in their statutory body, trust them and pay them. This proposal is also criticised by the Supreme Court in the framework of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. Dear absent Prime Minister, do we really have to tie our hands to entrepreneurs in this way unnecessarily and burden them with further bureaucracy and responsibilities? Are you aware of the consequences associated with the adoption of this amendment? What do you think the current regulation is inadequate about? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u17	Thank you and thank you for keeping time. That was today's last interview, the Prime Minister is absent and will reply in writing within 30 days. We have therefore exhausted our input on the Prime Minister, and I am asking Mr Dominik Feri to give the first interview on the members of the Government, in this case on Minister Marie Benešová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u18	Thank you. It's a nice follow-up. I have addressed the Prime Minister from a political point of view, but from the Minister, and I have already told her in advance what information, yesterday during the discussion I would have been interested in, so I would like to ask more technically and more in detail. Madam Secretary didn't prepare this novel, she inherited it. She has not inherited it from the previous Minister, nor from the previous Minister, but from the previous Minister Dr. Pelikán, who is a prominent Czech commercialist, has addressed the issue and has chosen a certain range of experts to prepare this amendment. And I would like to ask what is the position of the Minister and her subordinate ministry on this amendment and on the amendment, that is to say, a mandatory three-member board is being introduced, which can create a very significant complication in terms of some kind of personal security by those equity companies with a monistic internal structure. And I'd like to ask about the actual numbers, because the RIA report in the proposal is about two and a half years old, or two years old, the numbers aren't up to date, which means if they're still valid. I am actually convinced that 90 percent of the stock companies with a monistic internal structure have one-man board of directors and would therefore have to submit to this new regulation. However bureaucratic I think this regulation is, in fact, contrary to what we have adopted in the constitutional committee. That means cutting out the amendment to the Trade Corporations Act and leaving only the really needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u19	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary is present, so he will respond. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u20	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen. You asked me that I inherited this matter. That's right. My predecessors worked on this issue, both Professor Válková and Dr. Pelikán, as well as Dr. Kněžínek. And as those ministers take turns, I actually inherited the thing. However, I have reviewed all these inherited legislative proposals, we have sat down with our legislative union and have basically adopted them, and I have found that it is good to maintain continuity. So I continue to do my best. About the data. I would like to refer to our latest available data from March this year, which we sent you in response to your oral intervention from the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I believe on March 7 of this year. At that time, 6,328 monistic stock companies were registered in the public register. The board of directors of these companies are one-man in 4 993 cases, which is about 79 percent. The two- to three-member management boards are in the order of hundreds, four- to five-members in the order of tens and seven-, eight- or nine-members in units, none of the registered monistic joint-stock companies having a board of more than nine members. It follows from the above that one-man board of directors is clearly the most common among monistic public limited liability companies. Of the total number of such public limited liability companies, it has 2 851, which represents 45 per cent, only one shareholder, of which 2, 443 has at the same time only one member of the board of directors. This number represents cases in which the possibility of a single management board could be maintained in the future. At the same time, allow me, following your first and second reading, to briefly repeat the reasons why you are asking us for this data. In your performance, you accentuated the requirement for the possibility of operating under the head of a stock company with as little cost as possible. In your opinion, this requirement is intended to suit the current setting, according to which the possibility of a single-member board is judicature. I would like to mention that although there are different views on this issue, we have also turned to the majority opinion in the preparation of the draft law, which resulted from the work of our expert working committee, in which representatives of the Supreme Court were represented in addition to prominent experts on corporate law. Mostly, the general possibility of one-man boards was not considered desirable from a practical point of view. It should also be noted that the joint-stock company is, by its nature, intended to accumulate more capital and to operate a larger undertaking. This is reflected in a number of aspects, such as the requirement for at least two million share capital or the impossibility of excluding the transferability of the share. A certain circulation of the shareholder structure is envisaged. Without meaning, there are no historical contexts. We have also taken these into account. The operating costs of the joint-stock company can to a large extent be minimized by the ratio of at least three members of the board of directors. It is not required that all its members be executive agents who conduct business on a daily basis. That's about all I wanted to complete. [[Time warning.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u21	Member Feri will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister, just because she is one of the few ministers here, I really appreciate that. The previous interpelation in March, it wasn't up to you yet. That means I wanted to know your personal position on this matter and thank you for having been settled. It is true that, within the doctrine, there is simply some expert debate, let's say, about the use of the various types of capital companies. There's nothing to add. There is our amendment which concerns this. I'll try to address him as colleagues. And the information for Mr. Vice-President is that I'm withdrawing for the absence of my next interpelation, including an interpellation with the Minister, so she can go home so she doesn't have to wait here. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u23	Thank you. And now I would like to ask for a second interview by Mr Rakušan, who will interpel the present Minister Dostálová, on the mountain service budget. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This interpelation will be far less emotional than the previous one. I visited the mountain service centre in Špindlerův Mlýn in Krkonoše Mountains and local mountain service staff during my parliamentary trips, I spoke to the head of the centre in detail about the financial demands of the mountain service for next summer. We looked into past budgets. In 2017, the operating subsidy was 160 million, in 2018 135 million, 15 million. has been transferred to the following year. Year 2019 - 155 mil. according to my information, of which 15 miles. was transferred from the previous year. My question is very simple, and what kind of operating subsidy and investment subsidy is being prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development for 2020 for mountain service, or from what sources does the Ministry calculate that the loss of income should be replaced by the Horská služby. I am actually based on information from the Mountain Service staff, and they have just reported to me that the operating budget for next year should be lower than for the years to come. And of course they are afraid that their activities in those winters that have now been quite long, the season has been from November to April, if similar winters come this season, so they are really afraid to be able to cover the penzum with their valuable and needed activities. I promised them I'd ask you about it during the interviews, so that's how I do it, and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u25	Thank you. And I ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u26	Thank you so much for asking. I am, of course, very glad that the topic of mountain service opens up in this plenary, because not only are we discussing the budget, and the Ministry of Regional Development has also supported the increase in the wages of rescue workers this year, because we really have the benefit of the mountain service at heart. Not only will I get an answer to how much we actually plan for this budget, but I would really like to open up the debate so that the mountain service becomes a fundamental component of the integrated rescue system. They're the first in the wounded, and they need the same legal protection as the legitimate paramedics. As far as the budget is concerned, of course, we are counting on that, and I have here a table of what was really drawing, what is proposed. It must be said that for 2019 they had 140 million in the budget, now in the basic budget, we are proposing 130 million in the basic budget. Last year, we transferred them from unused expenses of the Ministry 15 million, which means they got to 155 million. Of course, I count on the involvement of unused expenditure of at least 10 million. for traffic and 10 miles. for investments, because I consider it very important that they also have scope for investments where they have a subsidy programme of 234 million by 2022. Crowns. So I assume this will be fulfilled. At the same time, we know, and we succeeded, and indeed thanks to the Ministry of Finance, which helped us with VAT on mountain services, there will be a VAT refund of CZK 6.7 million. Those are all the things that are going to count on that income. Believe me, of course I appreciate the mountain service very much and, of course, I appreciate the paramedics' work, and I certainly wouldn't want them to have any operational problems, and we'll be watching it at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u27	Thank you. The Member will not be interested in an additional question, so I am now asking Mr Kott, who will intersect the absent Minister Hamáček in the case of the Czech Post, the cash collection system, and Mr Valenta will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Czech Post is trying as a state enterprise to compete with private agencies, the so-called bureaucrats. It offers supermarkets and other companies a cash collection from branches, but at oddly low prices. On average, he wants half as much for a service as a run-of-the-mill agency. In my opinion, the state-owned company Česká pošta does not respect the basic law of business and economics and I believe that it is distorting the market and it seems to be essentially at any cost, even if it does not make sense. While the offers of private agencies range around CZK 300 per transport, Czech Post is said to be able to serve the circus for CZK 160. For this reason, I am interested, and I think that not only me, where there is the secret of low prices for services offered by the Czech Post. I can only assume that this is because the management of the Czech Post is not motivated by profit and, to some extent, they do not care what loss will be at the end of the year. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u29	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Valenta, who will intercede with Minister Schillerová in the SAO case, irregularities in the financing of non-profit organisations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u30	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, what do you say to the information that the gap created between data on subsidies to non-profit organisations between 2015 and 2016 between the budgetary information system and the financial analysis carried out exceeds CZK 3 billion? You must know that this has specifically come from the recent findings of the Supreme Audit Office. For example, in 2015, there was a difference of 2.19 billion, the budgetary information system reported subsidies of 11.95 billion, whereas according to the financing analysis, it was 9.76 billion. In your opinion, is this a lack of accounting, a deeper error, or a mere error of analysis, which, paradoxically, was also produced by a nonprofit on the order of the Office of the Government, based on the evidence of specific ministries? How is it possible that the audited ministries, the Office of the Government did not publish all mandatory data on the subsidies provided in 2016 in the central register? This is really interesting information about order and status when drawing subsidies. And the other one, in my opinion, is at least equally serious. How is it possible that the State provided CZK 26.26 billion to non-profit organizations in 2016 and 2017, although it has clearly had no relevant analysis of what services the company really needs? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u31	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Before they arrive at the microphone, I will inform you that the Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes to us from the afternoon meeting until the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, my answer will be quite brief, because I must point out to you, Mr Member, that the analyses of the funding of non-state non-profit organisations from public budgets for the years 2015 and 2016 have actually been produced, as you rightly said, by a non-state non-profit organisation, on the basis of an order from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. And according to the Government Office's statement on the SAO's position, you quoted the analysis of the financing of non-state non-profit organisations from public budgets, did not follow the volume of all subsidies granted according to the budget composition, it was a quote, so the financing of the selected group of legal forms of non-profit organizations, associations, branches, special purpose facilities, churches and religious societies, foundations, funds according to the definition of the Council of Government for non-state nonprofit organisations. So it didn't follow the volume of all those subsidies. That's what the Office of the Government said. Thus, the problem arose in a different definition of non-state non-profit organisations, that basically everyone considered different volumes. That's the government's position. Of course, I can't quite verify it from the Ministry of Finance's data, because the Ministry of Finance wasn't the processor of the analysis, and we weren't really asked for any information. So the Treasury wasn't involved in the analysis at the time or the ex-post. In accordance with the recommendation of the SAO, the Government will seek to unify the use of legal forms of non-state non-profit organisations in all materials, to do so, and complete information on the volume of subsidies granted to non-profit organisations, which are defined within the budget composition, is part of the data in the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance is ready to provide them at any time. But as far as further questions are concerned about the analysis of the funding of non-state non-profit organizations, I would like to ask you, Mr. Ambassador, to refer to the Office of the Government, which is the processor of this material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u33	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u34	Very briefly. I know, of course, that the subject was mandatory by the Office of the Government. But as Minister of Finance, do you really not have any influence in this regard on influencing the entire process? Because I would add my previous speech to the fact that according to the SAO's quoted audit, a breach of the conditions of subsidies was found in 10 of the 18 audited entities. I think that, to some extent, the Ministry of Finance should be involved in this, helping to address these shortcomings in the whole subsidy allocation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u35	Thank you. The Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u36	The Ministry of Finance, of course, has then, or not the Ministry of Finance, but mostly the Financial Administration's bodies, which are separate organisational units of the state administration, so they have influence if violations are detected, so they will, of course, initiate appropriate procedures according to budgetary rules. But that's ad hoc driving, everyone's different. And I, as Treasury Secretary, maybe you remember when I was preparing the budget for 2019, I was appealing that the amount was constantly growing. I even strongly appealed to the resorts to try to reduce it. Because you understand the grant policy towards the nonprofit sector, but against the total grant sector, it's in the gesture of the individual resorts, the providers. So the only thing I can do is somehow reduce the volume of these subsidies, which I did in the budget of 2020. And I'm under the influence of the various facts here that we've been running those grant titles into the Treasury's system since 1 January 2019. So we're able to do an analysis of what-- and we have that there, we built it, we put it into that system in a quarter of a year, it was a very short time, it was just the administrator of this system working for us there. So today we're able to analyze and monitor who and how many individual resorts they provide. That's what we're capable of. But it's a major influence on who and how many different resorts they have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u37	Thank you, and before we move on to the next interpellation, I'll introduce you to a set of apologies. Mrs Malá apologizes to us by the end of the day for reasons of work, for reasons of work. Mr Bartoš apologizes to us from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons and we are apologized to Mr Juříček from 15 pm for urgent working reasons. And now, please, Mr Jelínek, who will intersect the absent Minister of Plaga in the matter of not using the state emblem on our representation's jerseys. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of them here. Dear Minister, in the last parliamentary term, the Minister of Education tried to reverse the practice of not using the state emblem on the jerseys of our representatives. Specifically, it is Act No 352/2001 Coll., § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) g), where it says: "The great state character is used for the external marking of the jersey of athletes representing the Czech Republic." Unfortunately, the Minister did not complete his mandate and the sports associations continue to practice using the logo instead of the state emblem. My question is: will the Ministry continue to tolerate non-compliance? Is there a need for such a diversion from tradition? [[15.10 hours]] According to similar logic, the borders of the Czech Republic would no longer have to be marked by a large state emblem, because the same wording is used in point (c) of that law, and if it is not respected by sports associations, why should others follow it? Athletes are a role model of our youth. And if our representatives do not show a patriotic relationship to our state emblem, it is a bad example that affects not only young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u39	Thank you, too. And I beg Mr Kupka, who, of course, let me know that he would not be present. So now, please, Mrs Mračková, who will intersect the absent Minister Maláčová on the amendment of Decree No. 505/2006 Sb. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u40	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, by its resolution of 30 May 2019, called on the Government to instruct you to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a draft amendment to Decree No. 505/2006 Sb., which has not been amended since 2014, implementing certain provisions of the Social Services Act, valorisation of payment limits in residential facilities and hourly rates for operations in field and outpatient services in connection with increasing the costs of providing these services. As a Member, as well as the Chair of the Association of Regions and for all social services providers, I ask what stage is the preparation of this material, what are the parameters of the amended decree and, above all, when this decree enters into force and effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u41	Thank you, too. Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I now ask Mr Munzar, who will intersect the absent Minister Havlíček on the tax policy. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I confess that if I read today, virtually. he asked the Minister his questions, so I only get a quick written answer from the officials. And I'm more interested in the Minister's personal opinion, which is why I'm going to try to give this interview in one of the following days. I hope I'm lucky when I draw. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u43	Okay. Copy that. I therefore ask Mr Janulík now, who will intersect the absent Minister Maláčová on social benefits. As long as Mr. Janulík is here. Please, Mr. Ambassador. It's going fast. The ministers aren't here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask you a question about the absent Mrs. Minister Maláčová. At 15 points, the initiative to combat poverty and social exclusion is one of the points of the so-called revision of the batch system with the proposal to consider the merger of contributions, the housing supplement, the reduction of the payment of benefits according to the value maps of rent, ensuring the address of the payment of benefits, etc., etc. According to the legislative work plan submitted to us, an amendment to Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, in March 2019 and Amendment to Act No. 119/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, also with the deadline March to April maximum 2019. It's September. We got nothing. So I ask what stage it is and when these amendments will be presented to us. In addition, Madam Secretary, you have informed some Members and structurally disabled regions that you will submit a brand-new law to the housing levy. So I ask what stage of preparation this whole new law is at and how MPSV approaches and works in this area so that at least some changes can finally be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u45	Thank you, too. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. And now I would like to ask Mr Jakub Michálek, who should intersect Minister Brabec, who is absent, on behalf of the opposition in the coal commission. However, I do not see the Member here. So it looks like we're gonna have to keep going. I would like to ask Mr Babka, who will interpel Mr Zaorálek, whom I welcome among us, on the subject of a rotating auditorium in Český Krumlov. [[The appointed one just walked into the hall]] But I don't know if Mr. Babka is here. [[It is.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u46	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, allow me to interpel you on the issue of the Český Krumlov revolving auditorium. As a citizen and a member of the South Bohemia Region, to which not only the professional public but also the civil public is addressing, I must ask you how the Ministry of Culture will proceed on this matter. Since, as you know, the turntable of Český Krumlov's rotating auditorium serves, Bellaria before the spinal decay and falls, UNESCO criticizes Český Krumlov for not being in the castle garden anymore. I very much appreciate your efforts to enter the culture department, which is why I expect that, although no minister has yet solved this very difficult situation, you will try to do so. This is an absolutely fundamental issue, which will need to be resolved in the near future, because the technical state of the turntable will not allow for further operation. Therefore, as the new Minister of Culture, I ask you how the Ministry of Culture will deal with the situation in Český Krumlov with a rotating auditorium under your leadership. Who will pay for the new turntable, which belongs to the town of České Budějovice, but is on the land belonging to the Czech state, and which is managed by the National Heritage Institute? What will be the concept of solving this dispute? Will you accept the expert opinions of the conservationists? It is a very burning question not only for South Bohemia and Český Krumlov, but of course for Czech culture as such. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u47	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u48	Thank you and have a good afternoon. Well, thank you for the interpelation and interest in this problem. I'd like to say, Mr. Ambassador, that with a verva doesn't mean "yeah," that I'm gonna get on with it, and now I'm gonna get on with it, and I'm gonna figure it out. Because I don't want to say right now that I'm able to answer all of your questions, like how to finance and so on. That's really early. Maybe I could tell you what seems important to me at this point, when I'm at the beginning, and what I'd like to see as such is the limit we're holding on to in this case. I would certainly like us to preserve Český Krumlov as a UNESCO monument. That's what I think is quite principled. We would have acted like barbarians if we had done something like this that would have turned out differently. And the second thing is, there should be a theatre in that baroque garden. That there should just be this theater, because I know it's a public thing that's popular, has support, and it's something that if it wasn't, it would be wrong. And now, actually, there's a solution in between. I got an invitation from the mayor of Český Krumlov, who I'm sure I'll meet. On that occasion, I will try to meet others. I think there's an expert group that I'd like to call. And I'd like to ask you to give me some time to meet these individual protagonists, so I'll call the group that's dealing with it. Now, I'd just like to assure you that I'm not going to take any rash steps, because I think I really need to get to know this. Well, I'm guessing the variations that the dispute is going on, but just because I only know the possibilities, I wouldn't want to call you myself today: that's how it should be. I just know we want a UNESCO memory. I know there should be a play. And now it's about finding a solution that's a match. At the end of the day, the match should be made in that place rather than me bringing it. So this meeting with the others could lead to us saying, "Here it looks like this attitude is." [[15.20 hours]] It is possible that international institutions will also need to be dealt with, I will be happy to deal with the monument institute and others and to know these views. If it turns out to be useful, I just don't rule anything out if I have to. But hopefully it's not an unsolvable problem. But then it's awkward that he's been dragging on for so long. I even think the fact that he's been dragging on for so long has made him a notorious case that's a little bad for us. So actually the need to solve this is not only the problem of Český Krumlov, but I would almost say that it is also the need of the Czech Republic. Making decisions - that would be a relief for everyone, and at the same time a decent match. So you, too, Mr. Ambassador, are part of the environment that I would like to address in order to find the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u49	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in an additional question? It's not like that, so let's move on. I ask Mr Zlesák, who will intersect the absent Minister of Plaga on the support of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for leisure activities. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u50	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister Plaga, we have recently been able to monitor the growing support of sport by the state, both financially and for example. the creation of a new sports agency. And that's very good. I wish it to the athletes with all my heart. However, and unfortunately, Popelka remains a bit of a support for the unsports leisure activities of children and youth. First of all, I am thinking of organizations such as Junák - Czech Boy Scout, Association of Youth Tourists, Pioneers and many other organizations gathered under the Czech Council of Children and Youth, representing 236 thousand members, of which 189 thousand are children and youth. In 2019 the requirements of these organisations in the field of work with children and youth amounted to approximately CZK 600 million. Of this, only 185 million crowns were covered by the subsidy from the Ministry of Education. A very trivial situation is in subsidies for the development of a material technical base, such as the restoration of campground facilities, clubhouses, etc. Out of the requirements exceeding CZK 100 million, a subsidy of CZK 25 million per year is granted to MŠMT. That's an amount that's not enough to bail out the most necessary things. Moreover, it is an amount that applies to the whole Czech Republic for all non-profit organizations working with children and youth. I ask you, Minister, if the Ministry of Education in 2020 and in the coming years is going to raise these amounts so that at least they meet the requirements of these organisations, which are based on the work of volunteers without any remuneration. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u51	I also thank you and the Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Profant, who will interpel the Minister of the Zaorálek on the copyright directive, if we support Poland. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u52	Dear Minister, Poland has brought an action before the European Court of Justice against Article 17 of the Copyright Directive - the exact number of the EU 2019/790. This article introduces very dangerous robotic internet filters. These will automatically evaluate the content and delete it automatically. It's censorship! We have had an independent legal analysis drawn up which confirms that, as in Poland, this article is contrary to the right to freedom of expression and therefore to our constitutional order. Moreover, this situation will support large internet players such as Google or Facebook at the expense of smaller companies such as Czech ones. Do we really want to severely restrict our citizens in the interests of foreign companies? I also note that the date for joining the lawsuit is until 23. 9. I therefore ask you what the position of the Czech Republic in this matter is. Will we join Poland and other countries of the European Union that are fighting Article 17 of the Copyright Directive?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u53	Thank you for the interpelation and for keeping time, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u54	Yes, hello, colleague. I don't think I'm gonna cheer you up with that answer. But of course I'll try to answer. In fact, you are asking us to join Poland, to file with the Court of Justice with an action against the European Parliament, where it is proposed that certain provisions of Article 17 of the relevant Copyright Directive be rendered invalid. And you know that, as the Czech Republic, we have been involved in these negotiations rather complicated and that we have had the opportunity to apply our views, as well as the other Member States. The result is some kind of compromise. And we were involved in the compromise, so to speak. So now it's not easy if we suddenly have to build up, for example. Article 17 we want to limit or nullify. For Members, maybe I'll just explain, maybe I'll say it exactly, it's like when we have server Save. that and on this server Save. this might appear the film Svěrák, and the author in question protests that his film is appearing there, which is copyrighted, and the directive wants to prevent this precisely so that if any author calls and says "there is something projected and I have not given any permission to do so" in order to be able to intervene. That's about the point. And what I really do - I don't want to interpret Mr Profant's opinion here, but he believes that this intervention is a kind of restriction on freedom of expression. I hope I didn't knock it too hard. But the aim of this Article 17 is, as you can see, to prevent the massive damage to the rights holders of those authors, when someone is simply misusing - he's actually saying "I didn't do anything, I just provided the server, I didn't put it there." But the joke is that he's actually really using the works that somebody created, and he's losing his freedom, and, of course, he's making some kind of benefit out of it. And that's actually what this Article 17 is supposed to limit. And I can tell you our position, which I gave to the Prime Minister. The preamble containing the reasoning and interpretation of the normative text of the Directive explicitly states that the obligations laid down in this Directive should not lead Member States to introduce a general monitoring obligation. That's not really the point. Furthermore, the measures taken by the service provider should always be effective with regard to the objectives pursued, but should not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objective of preventing and ending the availability of works and objects of protection for which no authorisation has been granted. That's the only target. So no more restrictions. At the request of several Member States, the question of the compliance of the article in question with EU law, including compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights, was addressed by the Council's legal service in its opinion in October 2017, which is also applicable to the final text of the directive. The legal service concluded that the arrangements contained in the articles in question correspond to the requirements of the Court of Justice to ensure a fair balance between fundamental rights and comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. That means when you say it's a restriction of freedom, I tell you, this has been given, this has been examined. And they say there's a balance. It's always kind of a balance hunt. And so we have the legal advice that this has been respected here. To this end, it must be added that the resulting wording of the directive contains a number of provisions, supplemented precisely because of the guarantee of balanced legislation representing the fair balance and taking into account the principle of proportionality. And here's this supplement-- if I have time, I would-- I'm out. This is the case - definition of the service covered by Article 17, including a negative definition, which types of services will not be covered by the article, a more moderate regime for small enterprises and micro-enterprises and a ban on restricting the availability of objects of protection recorded by users who do not infringe copyright and related rights. I don't think I'm gonna finish this whole thing, but basically, I have two other three reasons that are actually my arguments for telling you that the Czech Republic should not, in our opinion, join the Polish lawsuit. And I also recommended this to Prime Minister Babiš, and I sent him a letter in this regard. So that may be an unsatisfactory answer for you, but I think the arguments are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u55	Thank you. And the Member will still be interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u56	Dear Minister, the current legislation protects authorial works, of course. What you described as the protection to be imposed by this directive is so called. take down notice. This means that the author will contact you because he has a suspicion of committing any offense or offense, and the operator is obliged to remove such content. The problem is that this directive goes farther and clearly leads to the application of preventive measures to preemptive measures. This really means robotic censor filters. The ones that - they do not have their own consciousness, they have to decide on the basis of similarity, because the kind of robotic filter that will need to be decided on the basis of whether the picture is really identical to some protected image, that will not be enough for the rights holders. Because then you just need a little edit and the picture isn't identical. So there's certainly going to be a comparison based on some percentage agreement. But here we get to the fact that in practice we ban various cartoons, funny pictures, and memes, because they are mostly based on pictures from films, which, of course, are protected by rights. And this robotic censorship doesn't tell whether it's an attempt to escape rights or cartoon, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u57	Time, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the Minister if he responds to an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u58	I just want to say that I have a moment that I have not been able to say and what I think is to prevent it from being in some form of decorative or misuse, so I will also say that it also includes an explicit ban on the area monitoring of the stored content, and that there is an obligation for right-holders to make every request to prevent access to their specific works properly justified and the obligation of a Member State to ensure the existence of out-of-court dispute resolution mechanisms. So these are the other supplements I claim to be there to protect it from being abused from the other side again. Otherwise, I believe, Mr Member, that this whole problem has yet to be discussed on Czech soil before this stage in which we are now. I think we have a European committee where we should talk about this until the directive is ready. At this point, we are in a situation where the Czech Republic was involved, when we actually had the opportunity to comment on this, and actually for us, the process is as if at some point in the final stage. And I can't imagine that we would now - you know, in terms of how it works, it would be a discredit to the Czech Republic, if we now, after all we could apply for, and we were fully involved, so now suddenly we would do what you want. So the debate is probably complicated, things aren't black and white, and we can continue in some form. But the main thing you're saying, join Poland, it seems to me a foreign policy mistake, it would just lose credit as someone who, when he behaved in some way, suddenly changes his behavior sharply. So I am in favour of discussing these things at some earlier stage in the preparation of those directives in the European Committee. But now I am telling you this from a certain point of view of the Czech state. For me today, it is hard to imagine that I would support that we will tear ourselves off and now we will support Poland when we have had the opportunity to comment on this earlier. That's my opinion, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u59	Thank you. And now I ask Mr Výborný, who will intersect the absent Minister Maláčová on the issue of the subsidy title of the MPSV Family.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u60	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Madam Secretary, I would like to interpel you on the subject of the Family subsidy title and its planned amount in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for 2020. Recently, especially from the conference Family Policy Forum organized by your Ministry, conflicting information about the future of the mentioned subsidy title has been multiplying, from considering its abolition to increasing to 150 percent of the current amount, as foreseen by the forthcoming update of the concept of state family policy. This situation raises existential concerns not only about the fate of primary prevention services providers but also about the further direction of family policy. The grant title was established in 2005 and its aim was to support activities to support a functioning family. Its creation can therefore be considered as an integral part of the measures of the emerging family policy. The subsidy title has enabled the development of primary prevention services, which are largely carried out by non-profit organisations. The grant title, I recall, is one of a kind. It enables the financing of professional activities by organisations which, thanks to the more than ten years history of the title, could become professional workplaces. The amount of the subsidy title of less than CZK 100 million has not increased since 2011 and has even recorded a decline compared to 2010 despite a sharp increase in wages and prices. In a situation where the grant title has not been validated since 2012 and when the Czech Republic has one of the largest divorce rates in Europe, its possible reduction would be a step of liquidation, threatening one of the government's priorities and KDU-ČSL's and that is support for a stable family. Just to imagine: For example, the Olomouc archdiocese has 22 centers for the family, and for each centre it has one-time and monthly wage of approximately 15,000 crowns gross. This time is often divided between two women and is actually dependent on an MPSV subsidy, so that they receive at least a minimum wage. [[Attention on time.]] Madam Secretary, can you tell us what the outcome of the negotiations and the planned amount of the IMF budget for the 2020 Family subsidy title is? Thank you for your answer, which the providers of these field services are waiting for. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u61	Thank you, please, for keeping time. Before I invite another speaker, I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Rozvoral apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Kolovratník will intersect the absent Minister Hamáček on the issue of opaque management of the Fund of damage barriers. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u62	Thank you for the floor, and I appeal to you, Minister Hamáček, on the matter of the Fund of damage barriers, which are established by law by insurance companies. I respect your proper apology from today's meeting and maybe I'd rather have a written proper answer. And I am also more pleased that my interview will be heard by my colleague, Minister Alena Schillerová, who today and daily is forced to reflect the inspirational ideas of colleagues in social democracy regarding the management of the state budget. In your case, I want to talk about the Fund for Damage Prevention, which has managed over CZK 3 billion since 2014, in 2018 it was CZK 688 million. To remind you, these funds come from the law from the wallets of all drivers who take three percent of compulsory insurance in this direction. I consider this fund to be a public, public source, and the management of it should also be public and transparent. Unfortunately, I can see from my own experience that this is not transparent. In many cases, the distribution of the money is decided by insurance representatives themselves, e.g. each year they award several tens of millions to themselves on the marketing activities of insurance companies, to promote so-called. driver lines etc., etc., and I do not want to dispute money that goes into hard investment on integrated rescue corps etc. But just as far as the financial flows of insurance companies are concerned, I have a big problem. I have three questions here. Firstly, I ask you whether you consider this fact of the current setting of the opaque decision-making of the fund to be transparent, virtually. If you don't consider him a potential conflict of interest. Secondly, I would like to ask you how you personally evaluate the existing legal regulation of this fund. And thirdly, if you consider his way of informing the public and the applicants about the results of the grant allocation to be sufficiently transparent. For myself, I say no and that I will be ready to initiate a legal change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u63	Thank you and now please Mrs Richterová, who will intersect the absent Minister Maláčová in the matter of changing the housing benefits, the basis for the new law. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the absent Madam Secretary how thoughtful he is about his ambitious adjustment. How are the calculations prepared? How many people are affected by the planned adjustment? What specific impact will this have on families with children living in residential hotels today? And also, how administratively it will be done, because the burden can also be very negative for the workers of the labour authorities. I ask because, of course, we all wish that some state housing support would only go to quality housing. We all wish that in the municipalities, for example. in Ostrava, Kladno, Karviné, there were not many residential hotels. That, as a state, we guarantee people, in justified cases, really dignified help. [[15.40 hours]] However, the current change raises, I believe, a very reasonable concern that - and this is a really big problem - the number of families who will be looking for a place in the asylum house will grow. Asylum houses are crowded today. The services there are also quite expensive because there are workers 24 hours a day. In the Pirates, we support field services, helping people in the natural environment. Once again, this amendment, or the preparation of a new law, could lead to a direct violation of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. I would really like to know whether the RIA will be processed, an overview of the effects of the regulation of the planned law, and I ask for all information on how many people it will affect, what the implications of the administrative and other and, if necessary, anything else that the Minister has to process. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u65	Thank you, too. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Minister Petříček on the matter of Czech foreign policy: an orchestra without a conductor? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u66	Dear Minister, bad coordination of Czech foreign policy is already such an evergreen. And I don't want to mold you for it, because coordinating some people just isn't easy, and maybe some people can't. In any case, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, you are responsible for the uniform appearance of the Czech Republic outside this Chamber, so I have to ask you about the latest events. Everyone knows that the President has shown himself again, in quotation marks, on his visit to Serbia, when he said that he does not like Kosovo and that we should take back his recognition. According to my information, neither you nor the Prime Minister have been informed of this President's statement, so it is clear that you could not agree with these steps. Dear Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about the coordination of Czech foreign policy. Last time, you told me that you and your ministry wanted to play a coordinating and consensual role across constitutional actors on the common foreign policy. And so I ask, Minister - is it going well? Probably not sometimes. What will you do to prevent Czech foreign policy from acting as an orchestra without a conductor? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u67	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u68	Mr President, honourable Members, I have repeatedly said that I am pleased that regular meetings of constitutional actors have been re-established as an instrument for coordinating Czech foreign policy. I am convinced, and I repeatedly stress that the government is responsible for our country's foreign policy, as a collective, but also as individual ministries, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And unfortunately, I must admit that I am afraid that some of the comments from the last few days have also put us in a situation where our foreign policy for the world becomes unreadable, even though our partners know that the official position for the Czech Republic is being established and exercised by the government of the Czech Republic. It is known that for the Czech Government, whether it was the government of Miloš Zeman in 1999, the simple decision to support the alliance bombing, the attack on the Miloševičův regime in Yugoslavia, was to prevent further bloodshed in Kosovo. Likewise, the simple decision of Miroslav Topolánek's government in 2008 was to recognise Kosovo's independence. And in this regard, I would like to add that it was a recognition of de jure, and that also has certain legal consequences. In this context - just to put the question of recognition right, which the Czech Republic is not considering. This appeal to the recognition of the state of de iure is an exceptional step in international law, a step that occurs when one of the constitutional elements of statehood has been lost on the part of the previously recognised state, which has not occurred in Kosovo at the moment. I believe that our priority in the Western Balkans should primarily be to help countries integrate faster, whether into the European Union or - if they decide to do so - into the North Atlantic Alliance. It is also an interest of the Czech Republic in contributing to the stability and security of the entire region, and I think that we should not play an unproductive role in questioning some of the fundamental principles on which the European Union's relations with the countries of the Western Balkans have stood so far. Let us really focus on how to help them become part of our Union, so as to ensure security and prosperity for the whole region, for all countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u69	Thank you, too. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u70	Dear Minister, thank you so much for your answer. I personally follow your comments, and I'm glad to see the direction of the State Department and you give information about your positions. I am just sorry, and I think that the President's statement often complicates the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and certainly work not only in diplomatic but also in economic diplomacy. I don't expect a long answer, but I think it really is, and I'm just saying I'm sorry. And once again, I appreciate your attitude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u71	Thank you. I don't know if the Minister will want to respond. He'll want to respond. Please. Possibility to answer an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u72	I will just stress once again that our foreign partners are aware that the government is responsible for our country's foreign policy, that the official positions on key foreign policy issues are in charge of the government, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I might just add - we live in a democracy where freedom of speech is also, but it is important for me, of course, to explain to our partners what we want to do in our area, what our priorities are and how the Government of the Czech Republic is doing it, whether through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it is also a matter for the Prime Minister. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u73	Thank you and please Mr Podal, who will interpel the absent Minister of Plaga on the recognition of the education of beekeepers. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I appeal to you with my interview on the recognition of the level of education for lecturers who received beekeeper's education at the two-year Central Beekeeper School of the Czech Beekeepers Union between 1977 and 1991, for the possibility of giving lectures and drawing funding from the subsidy under Government Decree No. 148/2019 Coll. The current legislation enables teachers to pay remuneration for educational events that either have a higher education or teach professional training in the field of beekeepers, or have a secondary education with an education certificate in the field of beekeepers. Those who had completed a two-year ÚŠ did not have the opportunity to learn from a beekeeper in the form of a distance study in a school facility and to obtain a teaching certificate because such a school facility was simply not there at the time. That is why the Czech Association of Beekeepers took the initiative in this regard. Now our beekeeper teachers should be punished by law by not being able to pay for their lectures, which means that the organizer will not invite them. At the same time, their education and experience are comparable to those of long-distance students in the field of beekeepers. Therefore, I ask for your support for this request that the graduates of the ÚŠ in the Czech Beekeepers Association in Prague, which was active between 1977 and 1991, comply with the condition of education under Section 5, paragraph 3a) of Government Decree No. 148/2019 Coll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u75	Thank you, too. The Minister will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. I now beg Mr Ferjenčík, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová on the transition from occasional earnings to full-time business. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, thank you for being here, unlike many colleagues. I address you primarily because the thing I turn to has budgetary implications and that you are the one who introduces the EET, which makes life more difficult for businessmen. I have an incentive for you to simplify their lives again. I beg you to give this interview to my colleague Havlíček, who also has a significant influence on it. Here's the thing. In the Czech Republic, it is an extremely difficult transition from occasional earnings to professional business. One example. Now, for example, the trade authorities, maybe it was the MIT, added the box of the Office to the application for a trade certificate, which, as a result, means that seamstresses who want to start their business to the fullest, suddenly need to meet a whole range of standards regarding hygiene regulations, safety and so on, costs need to be 70 grand to get started at all. For example, it is much better dealt with in England that standards are only met backwards when one is caught in quotes on the market. And a similar problem with the transition is also needed for homemade jam producers, who suddenly have to start meeting standards that are so complex that they can't handle them, or something like that, like home-made blacksmiths who have a workshop when they want to upgrade it to meet all the standards, so it's a million-dollar investment. So I would like to draw your attention to this problem, which you should definitely address in cooperation with my colleague Havlíček, who could significantly increase budget revenues precisely by making a number of people start to do business and perhaps not just sticking to melouches that are typically non-taxed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u77	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, I did not know exactly where to address your question, but now I understand. I will, of course, hand it over to my colleague, the Minister of Industry and Trade. But I focused on the problem from the tax point of view. If I have that word, I'll answer you. In terms of income tax, which is primarily the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, whether the taxpayer obtains income from occasional activity, or whether it obtains income from an activity that already meets the definition of business, that is, in terms of activity carried out, that is the difference after all. Revenue from occasional activities, including income from agricultural production, forestry and water management carried out by the non-business operator and the occasional rental of real estate, shall be exempt from income tax if, in total, the taxpayer does not exceed CZK 30,000 per year. I'm sure you know that. Moreover, in the case of income from agricultural production, forestry and water management carried out by the non-business operator, the taxpayer may still use flat-rate expenditure of 80 per cent of income, but up to a maximum of 1,600 thousand. Crowns. The tax base is constructed as a standard as the difference between income and expenditure, but if the expenditure associated with the individual type of income, for example from the occasional activity, higher than income, does not take into account the difference, so that the tax loss cannot be created in this scheme - under the occasional business regime. If the activity fulfills the definition of business, it may be a business business, there you apparently targeted, or another activity that is not a business business, then revenue is generally taxed under the scheme of Section 7 and so on, the tax base is determined as the difference between income and expenditure. It is possible to apply a flat-rate, which is, of course, now being newly racked with a sum of 2 million. And it is possible for such a business to end in loss. This is the basic thing that is then dissolved and applied - it dissolves an unprofessional expression, the kind of folk - that can be applied in the next five years. The fact that a person passes from income to professional business in the course of random activities carries with him, and we must say this, an increase in the number of responsibilities. This concerns, in a cross-cutting way, the entire government, the reasons being different: consumer protection, employees, competition, the environment, the registration obligation of taxes, if the taxpayer employs employees, the obligations of the payer and so on. Other obligations then arise from other legislation, as in the field of public insurance and so on. Again, it cannot be directly said that this question of yours would be targeted, and moreover, when you explained it, I understood the substance of the Ministry of Finance, however, you know that we have presented a so-called trade package where there are a number of ten points on which both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance are working. Behind the Ministry of Trade, it is the simplification, the limitation of the number of forms, the form for one place, the modification twice a year and so on. We've got it on the website, and I've been reminding it on my Facebook page this week. We did a press conference three weeks ago. I will, of course, hand it over to the Minister, but I think it will largely address the trade package, but we will certainly consider your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u79	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u80	Thank you for your word and your answer. I think the main incentive is that the obligations that a person acquires by starting a business do not start jumping at the moment when they set up a trade license, but to start up gradually. The problem is, to a large extent, that a person who starts a business must immediately pay advances on social and health insurance at a minimum, which is quite a burden for a person who has just started and often does not have any income. But the main thing is about hygiene, safety and such things, which is more like the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but I am also addressing you in this as Vice Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u81	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u82	I get it, I get it. And I think that responsibilities really are a lot, and most importantly, they are different. It's uncomfortable, orbiting the authorities and so on, so that's one of the topics related to the business package, and I take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u83	Thank you, too. Let's move on to another interpellation. I beg Mr Juchelka, who will intersect the absent Minister Maláčová on the issue of a fair completion of the parental contribution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Czech Republic has long struggled with the decline of children. In the first half of this year, 1,800 children were born less than in the same comparative period last year. The demographic needs of our state are currently not adequately met. In 2035 there will be 2.5 million pensioners in the Czech Republic and in 2060 there will be about 3 million Czech citizens at retirement age. I understand that the national policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs includes a whole range of small measures to support families, but conceptually, it limps in some way. We are dealing with a situation where families delay the conception of others and other children so that the birth of the next offspring does not come until the entire parental allowance is exhausted on the child of the previous child. This is in the vast majority of times when mothers are already 30 or more years old. For economic reasons, they delay pregnancy. Unfortunately, this is illustrated by statistics. And, unfortunately, receiving a parent's contribution to the previous offspring plays a crucial role in this. Let's set up the system so that the parental allowance is paid even if another child is born before it is exhausted. It will be the hand of the state to the families to prove that we really mean it with national politics. In 2017, the parent's parents had less than 9,000 families, and in 2018, there were 7.5,000. Madam Secretary, don't you think it's shortsighted that we're not going to meet parents who want to have more than one child before they finish their parental allowance? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u85	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary will respond to your questioning in writing within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Elfmark, who will intersect the absent Minister Brabec in respect of compliance with the conflict of interest law by the SFŽP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u86	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you in connection with compliance with Sections 4b to 4c of Act No. 152/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, by the State Environmental Fund and the Ministry of Environment. A number of documents show that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš continues to have a decisive influence on Agrofert and is thus in conflict of interest. [[16.00 hours]] I have three questions for you as a member of the SFŽP. First. Do you agree that, in the current situation, the SFŽP should suspend the payment of all European and national subsidies to companies from the Agrofert Group at least until the final opinion on possible violations of the conflict of interest law is known, as is quite common in the case of subsidy programmes in the event of suspected infringements? Question two. Do you agree that the allocation of public procurement by the Ministry of the Environment and the State Environmental Fund to Agrofert Group companies is a violation of the conflict of interest law? Finally, the question: The recent director of the SFŽP section of the national programmes, Mr Leo Steiner, sent a question to the Legal Department of the State Environmental Fund on 4 July 2019 to assess compliance with the conflict of interest law in the case of reimbursement of national subsidies for the company from Agrofert Group. Unfortunately, despite the emergency, he didn't get an answer after two months. And my question is: do you consider this procedure by SFŽP to be standard? Is it possible for you to publish the legal opinions Mr Steiner asked for? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u87	Thank you. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next is Mr Marek Novák, with an interview for the absent Minister Jana Maláčová on the conditions of the Employment Operational Programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister Maláčová, within the framework of the Employment Operational Programme, hereinafter referred to as the OPZ, a call for 097 for grants for corporate employee education has been launched. Its specific objective is to increase the adaptation of older workers and to increase the professional level of knowledge, skills and competence of workers and the compliance of the qualification level of labour and labour market requirements. According to the conditions of call 097, applicants are eligible, among others. municipalities and commercial corporations. On the contrary, excluded from the applicant's circle are mine. schools and educational establishments registered in the school register pursuant to Act No. 561/2004 Sb. However, there are commercial corporations whose main activity is, for example, production or services and, in addition, as a secondary activity to support the families of their employees, they operate a company kindergarten and are therefore registered in the school register. Such commercial corporations can not receive a subsidy for education under restrictive interpretation of conditions and according to my information, applications of such corporations are also eliminated. On mature consideration, it is clear that the factory, for example, where 500 people are employed in production and 10 in the company kindergarten, is not a school. As a result of poor setting of the conditions of the RES, or a call, due to formalistic interpretation in the assessment of applications, the applicant is ultimately affected - a business corporation that wants to educate employees and increase the adaptation of older workers and at the same time wants to run a company nursery for its employees. Madam Minister, for the reasons set out above, I consider the current setting of the conditions of the RES and the procedures applied in the evaluation of applications to be discriminatory. [[Your time.]] Business corporations, which also support the family - the sentence - policy and adaptation of older employees, are discriminated against in subsidy support against commercial corporations that support one of the stated objectives. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u89	Thank you. I thank you for keeping up the time to ask the question. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next is Mr Dominik Feri, who is not present in the hall, so his interpellation is failing, and Mrs Olga Richterová will prepare herself with an interview for Minister Adam Vojtěch on support for breastfeeding. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u90	Hello. I am very glad that the Minister is present. I was also pleased when the Ministry of Health was represented at a public hearing to support breast-feeding held in the Senate in May of this year. In fact, it was clearly stated that all parties acknowledged that breast-feeding has a very significant positive effect on public health. There's no question about that. What do I care? How to The Ministry of Health has actively advocated the implementation of some relatively simple recommendations, which were again recalled on the basis of the Senate event, again sent to the Ministry. I'll just give you an example so everyone can imagine. Take, for example, that you have the first child, you can start breast-feeding nicely and then you will have breast inflammation. In such a situation, it is ideal to have a sufficient network of lactating counselors that will help immediately, and actually do not need to develop inflammation, a doctor's visit, antibiotics, and often the end of breastfeeding. It is precisely the question of the practical availability of the first aid, where the Ministry can play a huge methodological but also financial support role. Data collection is also important. So how's the recommended change in what the newborn report looks like, or the baby nutrition report, the infants after they've been released from the maternity ward? It is also extremely important to adhere to the international code of marketing for breast milk replacement, because it has a huge effect again - what advertising looks like - on whether women give up breast-feeding at first difficulties or whether they feel sufficient support from society in that it is important to try and that there is support and where to find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u91	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. And please, there are so few of us here, and just because there are so few of us here, you can hear everything we're saying to each other. So please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u92	Yes. Now, I am sure and thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the interpelation, because sometimes some things seem marginal or normal, that we should not pay any particular attention to them, but I think that in the case of breastfeeding it is precisely the opposite. I was involved in this before I came to the Ministry of Health when I worked at the Ministry of Finance because I studied various studies on the effects of breast-feeding within and other countries, and we really want to protect, promote and support breast-feeding as a natural process, but it really has huge impacts on the public health of the population in terms of preventing diabetes, childhood obesity, breast cancer in women, etc. Indeed, the benefits of breastfeeding to mothers and children are huge, and we will certainly be and want to pursue this subject. The Ministry of Health holds the internationally recognised view of both the UN and WHO that exclusive breast-feeding should be promoted up to the age of six months and then continue breast-feeding together with a diet of two years or longer, depending, of course, on the needs of the mother and child, and we also want to adopt and legally treat the international code of marketing for the replacement of breast milk. I had it established a relatively short time ago - 27. 8. We have approved the provisions of the Working Group, which we called the National Commission for Breastfeeding, where there are really representatives of all Stakeholders who have something to say about this, whether they are experts or representatives of insurance companies etc. This committee will actually work to ensure that each mother receives support and quality care in the hospital, as well as, of course, quality advice on breastfeeding, infant nutrition and young children, as well as in postpartum care after being released from the hospital in accordance with the latest knowledge of medical science, so that we can really set the model as optimally as possible, so that we simply have all the benefits of breastfeeding that I have said here, and that was just a part of them, actually applying and seeing them in real practice. The commission will be the caller of the meeting, the coordinator of cooperation, of course, especially with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, care providers and, of course, professional companies, and will also guarantee that the necessary outcomes regarding the promotion of breast-feeding and defined standards will therefore be applied in accordance with the latest knowledge of medical science. As far as the Commission's closest tasks are concerned, it will be the implementation and coordination of the WHO breast-feeding strategies. It's the so-called Baby-friendly Hospital Initiative status.** [[16.10 hours]] As far as the Commission's closest tasks are concerned, it will be the implementation and coordination of the WHO breast-feeding strategies. It's the so-called Baby-friendly Hospital Initiative status. It is actually ten steps that lead to successful breast-feeding and ensure that the recommended method will be applied in all maternity centres, not only in those associated in the Baby-friendly Hospital network. We also want to disseminate relevant information about nutrition based on evidence without commercial interests through the National Health Information Portal of the Ministry of Health, which is now developing, which should really be an information source for all citizens with guaranteed professional information without exactly different side commercial interests. What is also important is what the Member said about this - to improve the continuity of care between the maternity ward and the after-retirement terrain in cooperation with the Expert Society of practical physicians for children and adolescents, who are key partners, the Lactic League and other partners. This will certainly require a certain restructuring of the health system. Also, what we need - to set up a change in the collection of breast-feeding data and to refine monitoring through the IHIS, Institute of Health Information and Statistics, so that we really have relevant data that we can base on. So also the recommendation of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate of 23. 7. 2019 will definitely be the subject of an appointed commission. The first meeting is scheduled for 10. 10. 2019 and certainly there we will discuss this point by point in order to really move on. We've done some opinion polling on the issue of breast-feeding. That didn't go nearly as bad as anyone could have expected. I really think breast-feeding is a subject and we're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u93	Is the honourable Member interested in an additional question? Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u94	Thank you. It's nice when the interpelations are even in a harmonious spirit. However, I would like to ask who is a member of the working group, if I may receive a list of members. And in particular, I wonder if they are a member of the women themselves, the mothers themselves, the carers. Because even this view is always important to take into account. Question two. So what funding will be available to support this working group? Whether, for example, the Ministry is preparing a subsidy programme or simply supporting it through the budget. I also have a question about how you want to implement this support towards information in pediatricians. There, it is often very contradictory, even with those WHO recommendations. And once again, I want to ask you if you're going to introduce the globally recognized evaluation criteria for the Baby-friendly Hospital Initiative, the 10 steps to successful breast-feeding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u95	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u96	Thank you for the floor. I confess that I don't have all these details on me right now. So I'm sure I'd be happy to deliver them to you. With regard to the members of the Commission, as I say, there are representatives of both key partners, which are practical doctors for children and adolescents, where I certainly agree that we must definitely work on this cooperation, but there is willingness, as well as other groups such as, of course, professional companies, Lactic League, of course there are representatives of health insurance companies and so on. So I don't have the exact list right now. I'm sure there are women and others. But I'm really gonna give you the exact list. I don't have it on me right now. As far as the finances are concerned, I'm sure it is. We have a subsidy programme to support prevention, which, without a doubt, breastfeeding is prevention. Breast-feeding is indeed the basis of prevention of childhood obesity, type 1 diabetes, breast cancer in women and so on. But these are clear scientific findings. So I'm sure we're ready under this programme if we agree on what support for financial support should look like, to support the development of breast-feeding. Sure, I don't see any problem with that. But it's really up to the committee to discuss all of this. Even the Baby-friendly Hospital Initiative question, according to those WHO international principles, as you speak. So I think we're actually in agreement here, but the committee hasn't started working yet, 10. 10. has the first meeting and I'm sure I'm ready to inform you about the progress. It's important to me, though, as I say, sometimes it may seem like a common thing. But it really is important to call on everyone to deal with it in order to breastfeed, because it is a hugely important area in the care of mothers and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u97	Thank you, Minister. We will proceed to another interpelation and this is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Again with the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch on the missing bone marrow donors. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an intervention on a serious issue, namely the lack of bone marrow donors. There are still very few in our country, which has one key connection. The chances of finding a match are between 0.5 and 1 per cent, plus current donors are getting older and the number of newcomers is insufficient. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you whether the Ministry of Health is going to take some steps to motivate people to enroll in donor registers, whether bone marrow or blood. What path will the Ministry take? For example, if you don't go along the way of raising the benefits for the donor. For example, I went through a proposal on this matter last year to increase the tax advantage of donors, or at the moment I tabled an amendment which contributes to the greater motivation of employers to allow their employees to donate blood. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u99	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, once again a very important subject. Thank you for reminding me of this area, which is really very important. It should be said that there are actually two registers of donors of haematopoietic cells in our country. I'm registered in one of them myself. One, the Czech National Register of Marrow Donors, is in Pilsen and the other, the Czech Register of Hematopian Cell Donors, within IKEM. I know there were some media outlets about the lack of donors. On the other hand, as we have information - no official information that these donors would be a major deficiency. Today there are about 100,000 donors. It's about one percent of the population. And when we looked at it with colleagues, even advanced European states have no more. It's not exactly a big difference. It is also important to say that when a suitable donor is sought, it is, of course, difficult. It's not like giving blood or anything. Indeed, the rate of success of finding a suitable donor is very low. This is why they often turn abroad if they do not find a suitable donor within the Czech registers. So this is where international cooperation works. And the truth is, the number of donors is increasing over time, even if not fundamentally. We're trying to keep this up. Like I said, I signed up for the IKEM registry myself, and we're trying to challenge the others. As regards the question of increasing the number of donors, this could lead to a step taken by the Czech registry of donors of haematopoietic cells this year, when it increased the age limit for the entry of donors into the registry from 35 to 40 years. Which should lead, and hopefully it will lead to the fact that we will simply have multiple donors again and a better chance of finding the right donor. Clearly, the more donors will be included in the registers, the greater the chance for a particular recipient to find a suitable donor. However, it cannot be achieved that a suitable donor is registered for each recipient, because the chances are very low, and that is why, of course, we need multiple donors. The positive fact is that current practice shows that the number of donors is relatively sufficient now, and, as I say, there is also the question of international cooperation. [[16.20 hours]] We in the Ministry of Health, within the framework of the subsidy programme Health promotion, increasing the efficiency and quality of health care for 2020, have created conditions for the allocation of funds from the state budget for the purposes of the subsidy procedure and as one of the priorities of this subsidy programme, we have just established the support of blood donation, organs and tissues. This should also specifically lead to an increase in the number of donors of haematopoietic cells. We are also counting on this as part of this next year's subsidy programme to re-work on more education and to get more donors. So I think we're doing quite a lot on this issue, and we're trying to increase the number of donors, even though we're far from bad at international comparisons. The problem also lies in the fact that there are quite a number of obstacles to entry into that register concerning the disease lost and so on, so not everyone can become a donor and register within those registers. Here I have all the limits that are in front of me for entering the Czech registry of donors of haematopoietic cells, and there are quite a lot of them. That means we have to work with this, too. But as I'm saying, I don't think the situation is, at least I don't have the official information, not necessarily bad. We're working on that increase, and I hope it has its fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u101	Well, thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question, so please, this is yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u102	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have an additional question, and it concerns the loss of blood donors facing hospitals. I have recorded an article about the Czech Republic being a blood plasma power, giving it to so many people for money that we also supply the European Union. I have also noted that commercial plasma donors are responsible for their insufficient numbers, those blood donors. And they say the more blood plasma donors, the less voluntary blood donors. Does the Ministry of Health identify with this opinion and is there any solution to how to address this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u103	Thank you and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u104	Thank you for the floor. So that's another topic, the question of blood donation. It's not exactly a major problem either. As I have information from the Czech Society for Transfusions, I think that the number of donors in our country is not fundamentally low, although the truth is that of course we still need new donors, because the problem is that of course blood donation is only possible until a certain age, I think by the age of 65, and of course the donors are getting old. Right now, I don't really have the numbers, because it's a really different topic, so the number of donors is about 270 thousand and... 250, sorry. [[Attention from the diaper: 250,000.]] And according to the recommendations of the professional society, there should be about 300,000 of them, so we just have to have it saturated, and I think those first-timers are about 20 thousand a year. So I'm not saying that the situation is completely ideal, it's not fundamentally tragic. The truth is, of course, in the case of blood plasma, the number of donors exceeds the needs we have. As far as I know, the overall need for the Czech Republic would be somewhere around 40,000 donors, and really there are about 120,000, if I remember it, plus minus. That means it's way out of line there. Of course, it's also the economic motivation, and she's not the blood plasma that we couldn't use for the benefit of the patients. The blood plasma also produces medicines, medicines, which means, in principle, it's also a positive material that we can use to benefit. But, of course, the commercial question, the fact that they have money for it, is a question that actually plays a very big role. [[attention on time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u105	Thank you. The next is Mr Pavel Jelínek with an interview with the absent Minister of Education Robert Plaga on the priorities of the Education Ministry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, dear government. Dear Minister, a year ago, uniform European rules on the protection of personal data began to apply. It keeps showing that people still can't work with them. Nonsensical solutions resulting from the fear of GDPR can only be seen as the absence of clear instructions in individual application areas. This is quite understandable in the field of education. Education, paralyzed application of inclusion, overloaded statements, reports for counseling, which are written in most cases as a thesis in Pilsen, and administration of individual study plans for inculated pupils, for gifted pupils and perhaps even for those in quotation marks average, responds hysterically to GDPR as well. Not to mention the form of action Z when applying GDPR to schools due to lack of funding for external cooperation. Sorry, frogs and houses are just the highlight of absurdity. The absence of an adaptation law also had a strong effect on this condition. As Josef Prokeš, director of the Office for Personal Data Protection, said in the media - without the adaptation law, the Office could not function fully in a new form, we were still following the old Data Protection Act and had to combine it with GDPR. However, the Chamber of Deputies 12. 3. 2019 approved the Act on the Processing of Personal Data, the so-called adaptation law, as amended, in which it was returned to the Senate. The situation around GDPR, which was also confirmed by Cisco's research in March, showed that only 59 percent of the companies fully or only partially meet the requirements of the regulation, and a fresh survey of the KPMG consultancy also sounds similar. My question has the Department of Education set priorities for its activities? Does he have the means to return from the trap of administration to the foundations of his activity, and that's teaching? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u107	Thank you. I'd like everyone to try to keep an eye on the time for interpellation. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mr Jakub Michálek, who is withdrawing his intervention. Next in line is Mr Marek Výborný with an interview with the absent Minister Robert Plaga on the promotion of sports clubs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I must state my disappointment with the Government's approach, and so I am not talking to the ministers here, the three of them, but I would expect that they will actually be present here for the questioning, which concerns precisely the possibility of asking questions by Members to the Government. The situation is undignified and, unfortunately, it shows absolutely zero respect from the government towards the Chamber of Deputies. Anyway, about the interpellation. Dear absent minister, I would like to interpel you on the issue of the imminent major problems of nearly 400 sports clubs and other organizations, which are mainly engaged throughout the Czech Republic in working with young people and children in the field of sports activities. At random, I can mention, for example, the athletic club AC Pardubice or the Eagle Unity of Uherský Brod. Those organisations were informed during the summer months that they would not be granted a subsidy under the My Club 2019 programme to support the sport activities of children and youth under 23 years of age. The reason for this is the lack of one, according to common sense and my assumption completely unnecessary or residual, necessary, excel tables on the billing of the subsidy for the previous year. According to the information, the applicants for MŠMT officials were not made aware of this in any way during the accounting year 2018 and only in mid-2019 was this omission justified by the non-acceptance of the subsidy. I find this procedure disproportionately harsh, and given the implications - here I will help myself with the words of constitutional judges - to the staggering. I would like to remind you once again that this is a support for clubs and sections where children and young people are working. For small associations and clubs, this procedure, Minister, can indeed be annihilation. [[16.30 hours]] Minister, I would like to ask you whether you are able to find a legally possible solution to resolve this situation by the Ministry of Education. At the same time, I ask whether you are preparing to simplify the entire application process and bill subsidies so that they are transparent, but at the same time to remove completely unnecessary annexes that lead to similar situations this year. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u109	I also thank you and point out once again that I would like us to observe the time to put the interpelation in place. Today, since there aren't many ministers here, the interpelations are going pretty fast, but if we had to stretch out every interpellation by half a minute, we wouldn't have gotten anywhere. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And at this moment, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared with an interview for Minister Jana Maláčová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u110	Mr President, thank you. My previous speaker Marek Výborný as a teacher sometimes doesn't follow the footage, I, as a media agent, will follow the footage and try to keep it. I'm sorry, that was a downside. Now seriously on the subject on which I would like to ask Minister Maláčová, or I will look forward to her written answer. My topic concerns the system or supplier of the system for payment of benefits. Like most of you, at the end of August, I read in the news reports that the MPSV will eventually not conclude a contract for a new information system for the payment of benefits with a winning supplier, or who won the tender that was written last year. At the same time, the tender for system suppliers has already been held twice. I think it was also discussed here in the House during a series of debates on the performance of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The second tender was announced in 2017. Finally, the Ministry decided to assign the contract to DXC Technology, with which it did not conclude the contract this year, and rejected the objections of the unsuccessful candidate, OKsystem, who offered the price - watch out - almost four times higher, 829 million. And in March, this firm turned to the Anthropopolitan Authority, canceled the decision and ordered it to be reviewed. Madam Secretary, my questions are three. First of all, if you can guarantee me and us that the Department of Labour, led by you, has actually set out the terms of the procurement procedure correctly. If so, how do you explain the extreme price difference between two offers? Two. Why didn't you file a decomp against the decision of the Antimonopoly Office? And in the third time, I'm asking if it will jeopardize the launch of a new competition on suppliers of the original timetable according to which the system should have been fully operational since 2021. I mean, how you're gonna do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u111	Exactly, Mr. Ambassador, just as you said you did. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Marek Výborný withdraws his intervention on Mrs Maláčová, Member Dominik Feri withdraws his interpelation on Mrs Marie Benešová, so Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare to interpel on the absent minister Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u112	Dear Minister, the subject I want to talk about is sensitive. I always fought for the Czech Post, I wanted to make sure that its services were available throughout the Czech Republic, so that the countryside would not be deprived of them. And when I talk about the loss of services in connection with the Czech Post, unfortunately, it has recently become ironic. There's a lot of complaints we learned at her address. And this paradoxically increases the subsidy it receives from the state budget, and I admit that I voted in favour of this increase. Classic example. The Czech Post will have to pay for the parcel delivery service up to the recipient's hand, while it seems quite common practice that delivery providers will not even attempt to do so, only leave a note in the mailbox with a message about the alleged non-disclosure of the addressee. The package must then be picked up at the nearest branch, although they have paid for the delivery service in their own hands. I know many such cases and not just from around me. Recently, e-shops complained about this practice in the Czech Post. Dear Minister, what will the Ministry of the Interior, who is the founder of this state enterprise, do about it? Are there any ways you can influence the improvement of this service? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u113	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Martin Kolovratník for Minister Jana Maláčová on the negative impact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u114	Thank you. I will turn again today to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and it is about the introduction of a quarantine period. Let me remind you of this story, how it touches me personally, or why I ask about it. It is a plus minus a few days exactly a year when we discussed this proposal on the Economic Committee. The Economic Committee was then opposed to the abolition because it fought and was on the side of the Chamber of Commerce, companies and employers and sent out a number of warning signals, where my colleagues from the Economic Committee referred to clear hard data, as the illness fell when the Karenary period in the previous time was introduced, and so on, and so on. A few days ago, I learned in the media an article that we just warned about on the Economic Committee, or on the content of which we warned. And it's happening exactly what we assumed a year ago. Firms say that in order to guarantee, and thus to have a budget for the payment of the first three days, they'll be disrupting corporate benefits. They will limit food stamps, some of the big employers are thinking about canceling the so-called sick days, which are a very modern tool for employers and human resources. So they simply cancel such a thing because they have to create funds in their budget precisely for the reimbursement of those renewed periods within the framework of sickness. So I want to ask you when you're going to give us the first facts, the first data, and if you already have them, if you can answer if the cancellation of the Karen's period led to an increase in illness. If so, the amount of income to the state register from social and health insurance contributions fell by. And my second question, did the reduction in the rate of sick leave occur from 2,3% to 2.1 percent to compensate expenses in the first three days of the disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u115	Thank you. This time, it didn't work out about five seconds. It shall also be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Dominik Feri withdrew his interview, so Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared with an interview for Minister Tomáš Petříček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u116	Thank you for the floor. I must commend Minister Petříček for being here. I finally got the minister present. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you in the matter of the preparation of the Czech Republic for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2022, for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs bears at least the responsibility. According to information from individual ministries, the government or Prime Minister of your government intends to significantly reduce the budget of our Presidency to the EU Council by up to one quarter. On the financing plan, the Ministry made a total of 137 comments, which have not been settled to date. With this approach, I believe, there is a serious threat of international shame when the Czech Republic will not be able to meet the obligations of a Member State of the European Union, in a situation where we will chair the Council around the middle of the mandate of the European Commission and there will be a number of negotiations under trialogues with the European Parliament and the Commission, which the Czech Republic will have to chair and will have to hold. There is a risk that we will not have enough representatives to conduct key negotiations within the EU Council. According to the evidence, this also has to do with the fact that the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Brussels is only to be strengthened minimally and that there will be no other departments. It should also be recalled that, for the various ministries from the Presidency, there are obligations towards negotiations in the Czech Republic, in the regions, and this is, of course, related to the presentation and promotion of the Czech Republic. [[16.40 hours]] Minister, I ask you whether you and your ministry agree with the Prime Minister's position, who claims that the Presidency has no role in the European Union, that it does not bring us anything and does not allow us to do anything. Is the Presidency of the Czech Republic a priority for your government in the EU Council, or is it beyond the horizon of budget planning and beyond the political planning horizon, stating that this will be a matter for the next government? Dear Minister, do you not see these positions as gambling with the reputation of the Czech Republic with our partners in the European Union? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u117	Thank you, too. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u118	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for this interview. I am convinced that the negotiations on the preparation of the Czech Presidency will continue to take place, and it is important, from my point of view, that, above all, we strive for our Presidency to meet the expectations of our government and also our country as regards the priorities that we want to promote in the European Union. I personally see the Presidency as an opportunity to influence events in the European Union and to strengthen the presentation of the Czech Republic as an active member of the EU and a country that also has its own ideas about what is going to happen in Europe. It can also use the opportunity to promote a good name and also a new marketing strategy for the Czech Republic - a country for the future. I and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believe that, as the Presidency's budget is proposed, we are unable to meet some ambitions. That is why I believe that the government will soon discuss this matter. I would just add that, in the case of permanent representation in Brussels, which is not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is a representation that will provide facilities for all departments during the Czech Presidency in the second half of 2022, for all Council meetings and negotiations in the form proposed by European legislation, and I cannot agree with that. Because only when I compare, so comparablely large countries, which at the time of the Presidency had their permanent representation at 230 to 250 people, are countries such as Austria, Slovakia, Romania or Estonia, so the proposal currently assumes an increase in staffing to just 156 people, thus significantly below what ensures that the role of permanent representation is effective. To be able to lead those working groups, so that we can also hold Council meetings and negotiate within the framework of the trialogues on European legislation. However, this government takes the Presidency seriously and takes it as an opportunity, and I believe that we will still actually agree to have a personal and budgetary guarantee for the Presidency corresponding to the ambitions that we expect from it. Finally, let me just stress that I really see that the Presidency is an opportunity. At the same time, no one wants to treat public funds economically. Let's save money, but let's save money where it doesn't affect quality and the good name of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u119	Thank you. The interest in the supplementary question is, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u120	Dear Minister, thank you for your words. I think we're on the same boat in that sense. In this matter, we really should not stand against each other, the government versus the opposition or anything like that. I am pleased that you see the Presidency as our priority, as an opportunity to really present the good name of the Czech Republic, our position within the European Union. We are clearly in agreement on this. I am glad that there have also been specific figures from your mouth concerning the number of our representatives. And I believe that, in this sense, there will still be negotiations at the level of your government and indeed an increase in that budget, knowing, of course, that it is not possible to go through the waste of public finances, but so that the funds are effectively spent precisely in favour of the Czech Republic and our Presidency. You clearly have my support in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u121	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u122	I will just add that I see the question of the Presidency as being the Presidency of the Czech Republic, not just the Presidency of the Government. And with this in mind, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking this issue, so that, first, we do not fall behind on preparations, and, of course, I will also be happy for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start preparing the very priorities after the European Commission's work programme is known, and this is what the government is counting on. This will, of course, be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u123	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on the financing of cultural monuments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u124	Dear Minister, I appeal to you with a request to finance cultural monuments and living art, which are long-term underfunded. Government and presidential games about the occupation of the Minister of Culture were more favourable developments, when unlike your colleagues, you did not have a stronger chance to speak up in the budget of the Ministry for next year. Dear Minister, I understand that, as Minister of Culture, you are kind of jumping on a busy train, yet I would like to call on you to fight and try to negotiate in the new budget an increase in the means of restoring cultural monuments, as they say, they do not have the right to vote, but also to live art. Will you try it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u125	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u126	Thank you. Yes, actually, I'm grateful for the interpellation that concerns what I'm doing the most right now. The fight takes place on several fronts. That's actually quite an echo in the interpellation. The one is the salaries that are being negotiated at these moments, and of course these negotiations are very much related to the culture department, where the situation of those salaries is very poor and unhappy. Another area is the area of living art, which is therefore an important battlefield, especially because one sees in these indicators that, as summers go, the resources fall rather than vice versa, which, of course, is very, very strange, because it is even in contradiction with the government's programming statement. And the third area, actually, that's the area of cultural heritage, cultural monuments, restoration of cultural monuments. So as far as salaries are concerned, these are the negotiations that, let's say, are taking place right now and will take place tomorrow. And there, of course, I would very much like the result to be such that it will be possible to fundamentally change the situation of salaries not only for the employees of the cultural, i.e. the contribution facilities of the Ministry of Culture, but that these steps will go and have an impact on salaries in regional theatres, orchestras and regional facilities. So that's what I'm really interested in there, so that these steps aren't about the contribution organizations, but also about the improvement of the situation in regional cultural facilities. So that's the thing that I'm watching immensely right now, and that's going to take place until Monday when the budget is going to be discussed. I confess that I personally find the most serious situation in the field of living art, precisely because of the downward trend, when you ask where I think it will be necessary to fight in this rather limited time. Because you know as well as I do that now it is that the budget was actually sent from the Ministry of Finance to the government where it will be discussed on Monday, and in the end my entry into this is as if physically difficult, given that the envelope is sealed. Yet, of course, I try to act and seek. And I'm definitely gonna answer that question to the government, actually, the last instance I almost have left to say where I see the biggest problems. I'll just tell you what you might know. I will remind you that 760 million crowns are provided in the current form of the design for the grant titles of living art. The grant titles for cultural heritage are CZK 761 million. It's a little better than it looked a while ago, because I was quite scared that in the original, February-disputed proposal, it was still 2.2 billion lower, which is incredible. The original proposal was incredibly wrong. This was then adjusted to the state that I say today, which is, after all, significantly better than what was actually being started. For me, then, what was considered in February was incomprehensible. [[16.50 hours]] It can be said that the area of investment in the restoration of cultural monuments is at a point of over CZK 4 billion, which I think is only in comparison with the previous certain positive developments, so there have been some increases. So I think that in this area we might be able to talk quite rationally about the way or that there are certain possibilities. And as much as monuments would be able to absorb even more, it seems to me here that the trend is not as disastrous as in the field of living art. And I say, I now focus mainly on salaries and increases in the field of living art. And let's talk about cultural monuments. I think the losses here, or the trend is a little better than the other areas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u127	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u128	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad you're still fighting for monuments and living art. As far as monuments are concerned, the trend, as I have noted, is probably falling into cultural monuments that are not owned by the state. There are 40,000 cultural monuments. And as you said yourself, there's about 760 million, which is relatively small. And it is clear that surveys have shown that there is an internal debt of CZK 318 billion on these cultural monuments. And if their repair is extended, it will be more expensive, or of course the sights - I don't want to say fall, but we can simply lose them. Just when you're talking about the four billion, you're probably talking about the landmarks, but I was talking about the unstate monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u129	Thank you. Is the Minister interested in an answer? He doesn't. So another interview - again, Mrs Věra Kovářová to the absent Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u130	Dear Minister, the subject is clear. South Moravian Highway D52. Yesterday, we learned that the Rakušan opened the last part of the A5 motorway move from Vienna to Mikulov. The Rakušan are also prepared and ready to build the last nine-mile stretch to the state border. So I'm asking where we Čech stand. Apparently, we're still in the same place we were in 1996 in Pohořelice. I ask when the Czech side of the highway will arrive. So, according to the information, ŘSD is probably not in sight, which I am very sorry about. I was a little ashamed when I read this report. And compared to the Rakušan, it's getting pretty bad. So I will ask you, Minister, even though I know you haven't been in your office for too long, where it's slowing down, what you're going to do to speed things up, and if we can probably look forward to the result of a new highway, so that we can at least be a little less ashamed. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u131	Thank you. It shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Another and final interpellation to Minister Lubomír Metnar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u132	Dear Minister, there's been a lot of talk lately about Marshal Koněv, respectively. about his statue. At the case in which the Russian Embassy enters, even the Russian Minister of Culture, and they make strong statements at the address of self-government in Prague 6, I am impressed that the same state, Russia, does not respect the provisions of the international treaty with Czechoslovakia, according to which it should care for the graves of our legionnaires. I don't want to compare these situations, I see differences in them, but it feels like a situation where someone preaches water and drinks wine himself. Let's cut to the chase. Some time ago, the Ministry of Defence decided not to send CZK 1.5 million to the Russian side to rebuild these war graves. The reason was that Russia, according to the Ministry of Defense, neglects the care of these religious sites. Russia then filed a lawsuit against the Czech Republic last month, thus defending the alleged accusation of stealing money to repair the graves of fallen Czechoslovak soldiers. Can you confirm these facts? Is there any hope of improving the situation? Or is Russia not going to continue to care for graves? Or continue not to care? What amount was the Czech party's estimate to be embezzled? Will the Czech Republic enforce it back? In conclusion, allow me to make this remark. Ironically, we have a group of people holding demonstrations for the statue of Stalinův's bloody marshal, and neglecting the graves of our legionnaires and stealing money for their maintenance seems to be okay with them. At least I didn't see the Russian embassy holding demonstrations about it. If he gets up to it, I'd be happy to go with them. The behaviour of our legionnaires on the Russian side is shameful. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-008-317.u133	Thank you, ma'am. It shall also be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We've dealt with all the interpellations. I'm done with today's meeting. We'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. according to the approved agenda on the agenda. Have a good evening and goodbye.
