ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u1	256. The Senate's request for consent The Chamber of Deputies with the filing of a constitutional action against the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman to the Constitutional Court for gross violations of the Constitution or other parts of the Constitutional Order pursuant to Art. 65 Constitutions of the Czech Republic / House printing 561/ which we interrupted before noon break, House Press 561. We are in an open debate and, before the midday break, Mr Patrik Nacher, who is present, was registered with a factual remark and can therefore speak with a factual remark. Before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace, so that there is a decent enough environment to continue the discussion. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. So now it's gonna be a call in the desert or into the wall because I wanted to respond to the words of a fellow Lipanský who isn't here, so maybe his colleagues will tell him, or I don't know how when there's a half-empty O.R. at this point. [[right Lipavski]] I wanted to respond to the fact that his colleagues here often moralize us, that we should go after this thing and that we should not attack the bearers of any thoughts. Sir Humphrey Appleby in Sure, Minister, said you should focus on the players, not on the ball. And we should focus on the ball. That's the thing. And a colleague of Lipanský here went to Professor Gerloch - I don't know him personally, I've seen him twice in my life for an event - because he just has a different opinion. [[Spoken again by Lipanský]] Then let him confront his opinion. Some constitutional lawyers have this view, others have different ones, but they start here arguing what someone else, some other professor, said about him, and quoting Wikipedia here, and at the same time forgetting to share such information that he was appointed professor in 2001 - from whom didn't they? From President Havel. Well, this really seems like an unbearable cadre to me. Just confront my colleague Ožanová, who quoted it here, with the views and don't discipline their carrier, which is Professor Gerloch. As well as the argument that he was voted by 19 of the Chambers present as a constitutional judge, there is also no proof of quality or bad quality, because if, in theory, we were to vote on this, perhaps, and for Professor Gerloch, it would be purely theoretically 120, so would you come out here and say that it is, on the contrary, very high quality? That's a question. You probably wouldn't have said that. In other words, I wanted to say what a beautiful difference it was to see between a performance by a colleague of Lipavskýý and a colleague of Rakušan, who actually criticized the speech by my colleague Ožanová, but he took note of it and went after the content, and not that he pulled out Wikipedia, Professor Gerloch, and started looking for some things there. My colleague, you were 16 years old when he became a professor. Stop! Stop this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u3	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Milan Brázdil's point of fact now, and then Mr Ferjenčík - also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u4	Mr President, not through Mr President, but through some of these cameras, hello. And good day to all of you. My colleagues, my colleagues, for six years I have observed that most of you will come here to the counter and begin with the words: "Dear Prime Minister, dear colleague, who knows, will speak and, in fact, at the end of the speech, rather hold a knife in his hand, which he would like to stab in the back of the person concerned." But it begins with words, dear. And they're even among us, not here in the House, but people like Mr. Polčák who are waiting or wishing someone dead, the death of his president. He may not be his president, but the death of our president or president of the Czech Republic. That's awful! To me as a man, but as a doctor, paramedics, when Mr. Schwarzenberg collapsed here and lay there, it didn't matter whether he was of that opinion or the other, but I certainly wouldn't want him dead. I went, and there were more of us, and we helped him. And so allow me, Mr. President, and you future presidents who celebrate your birthday, I wish you well, and now you've proven it by your examination, and celebrate it well. Bye-bye!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u5	I thank my colleague Brázdil, Mr Ferjenčík, with a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to my colleague Nacher. He's even here. Colleague through Mr President, you are very sensitive to someone composing names, so I will ask you to refer to my colleague Lipavský as a colleague of Lipavský. Well, that's one thing. Second thing. I think my colleague Lipavský pointed out that Professor Gerloch is in conflict of interest on this matter, because he and the President have, say, a close relationship with him, he's done some assessments for him, the President has nominated him for a constitutional judge, and that's why it's probably difficult to take his statement as truly independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Josef Hájek, also with a factual remark. Then a colleague named Nacher, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u8	Mr President, fellow Members, I would react here to my colleague Brázdil. I'm not gonna say hello to the President, because I'm sure he spends his time more meaningfully and doesn't watch this transmission. I'll tell him when I see him. Anyway, what my colleague Brázdil said about Mr Polčák's statement here, that's just gross, hyenism, and otherwise I don't want to say another word, because it would have to be turned off by the President here. Anyway, in that context, I remembered Mr Topolánek, who, in 2010 for the LUI magazine during an informal discussion, said not quite nicely about the Židy, his colleagues back then, Minister Slameček and Prime Minister Fischer, and the ODS launched such a campaign that it cost him a political career, lost his presidency, etc. I'm sure my colleagues are still here from ODS, ma'am. The Němcová will certainly remember that through the President. And how is it that no one responds to such a statement - Mr Topolánek's statement was 5% of its scope -? No one's responding! Where are the challenges: Mr. Polčák, step back! Where are they? I didn't notice them. So I call on a million moments for democracy, if he really thinks about the fight for democracy honestly, so he will have posters for the next demonstration, he will call on Mr Polčák to resign from his post as MEP! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u9	I thank my colleague Hájek for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u10	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I want to apologize for messing up the word. Yes, I'll remember now, Mr. Lipavský, I won't get it wrong again. He's not here again, so I'm telling his colleague again. However, I have nothing to change about the rest of it, because if he said it the way my colleague Ferjenčík said it, it's completely different. That's the context of the situation, the context of the person who writes it, in relation to the person he writes an opinion about. Like me, I have spoken about senators who have been very active in this matter and who have also been defeated by presidential candidates. That's also the context. But he didn't do this here. He started quoting something who was doing before 1989, citing the opinion of some other professor when he was a student. The cadre, that's the difference! That's the difference. So I'm sorry about the name messing up, but I really think that's where I'm going, please stop spraining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Miroslava Němcová also with a point of fact, and so far she is the last one registered for factual remarks, Mr Čižinský continues. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u12	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to the branch in our discussion regarding Mr Stanislav Polčák's statement. I do not agree with these statements, but I do not agree with them, and I would like to see it that way, with the statements of the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman, who said he would like to shoot journalists. I think it is worth the same attention and consideration as the statements of others that we consider equally inappropriate in this context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u13	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and we continue the discussion. Mr. Jan Čižinský, Jaroslav Foldyna will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the constitutional lawsuit, we have an important vote to make. Each one of us has to decide according to his best knowledge and conscience, so it should always be and so it should be today. I therefore propose that we vote secretly on the constitutional lawsuit. The secret choice is the free choice of each one according to his conscience and the promise made by each one of us. I know I'm moving on thin ice. It may be argued that this is not a transparent procedure. Today it's about respect for the Constitution. It is also about respect for the outcome of future elections by the President and future presidents or presidents. The secret choice will allow those Members who are publicly afraid to vote differently than their boss or club has ordered them to vote according to their conscience. Even the Senate discussed the constitutional lawsuit in public. This is an extraordinary situation, which is why I also propose that we vote in secret and allow everyone to vote according to their consciences. The individual clubs here declare how they will vote. According to the opinions of the clubs, the constitutional lawsuit has no chance, it will not reach the Constitutional Court. Let us therefore allow a secret vote to determine whether or not the constitutional action will be handed over to the Constitutional Court, regardless of the bosses and clubs, but with regard to each of us's conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u15	Thank you, Mr Čižinský. We will vote on the proposal, which is procedural, after the debate has been exhausted, because it is a way of voting, not a procedural proposal in the sense of e.g. interruption, pursuant to § 63. Thank you. So we continue with Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna speech, Marian Jurečka will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u16	Mr President, thank you for your vote. I'm gonna try to say a few words about what this public debate looks like. I think that the public who is looking at this is not, in large part, constitutional lawyers, does not read the analyses of constitutional lawyers, but they look at politics and ask their common sense what is actually happening in the Czech House. Maybe I'll start from the end. Are we going to make a secret choice because it's more democratic than the public one? Before here, according to the practice of our democracy, 200 Members and 81 Senators voted for the President. They've come, and I don't think it's a very different group that wants to challenge the president who said by law today - we want a direct choice. It was very planned here for the President's election to take place directly, not through Members and Senators. We want a direct choice! Today you go and hear how bad it is, the public is unable to choose because it gets information, fake news they call it. Fake news is possible when the Senate Committee takes decisions from public sources, i.e. from Czech Television, and this decision is based on not exactly accurate and correct information. This is also fake news. I think that the direct choice is very democratic, and that judging a mandate based on the choice of ten or two million people does not have much support in the logic of democracy. The President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman elected 2 853 390 votes and the last Senate elections were attended by 114 thousand inhabitants. If I went along with that logic and said that the senator's mandate would only be obtained if 10 percent of the eligible voters took part in the election, part of the Republic would exhale for three Senate rounds, shut down and extinguished in the Senate. This is the result of what it looks like on the Czech political scene at the moment. [[He speaks very urgently and increasingly emotionally.]] And it seems that those who can pull rabbits, squat, spin around, run halfway around Prague Square today want to put the president on trial to try to get what they didn't get by choice, but by decision of an independent court. But in the meantime, they'll be able to fill the flight plain for five crowns with thousands of protesters yelling "how bad the president is"! Then one of those guys comes in and says, "It's too bad this Zeman didn't die when he died, it'll work out"! One day these people will run out of patience and they'll figure it out for you! That's the atmosphere that's born here. Those people who lost the election because they can pull rabbits, they can squat, they can spin around, and they even run around Prague and maybe they have a nicer body than the current Miloš Zeman, they lost in democratic elections. And today, he's trying to reverse democracy through the courthouse and find another way. And that's why I'm not going to vote for any such trip. And they know that no 120 Members will be found here. We keep each other here, but that's part of the democracy that they love and eagerly talk about. So, friends, what gets out of here when people watch CT24 is that a large part of the Republic will tap its head, and unfortunately, it will perceive the political scene as it perceives it again, and a large part of them won't come to the polls because they will say it's embarrassing. So there's not much to thank you, Senators, you know, some of you are good at downloading rabbits and you have some pretty bodies when you're running around Václavák, but the public has given space to common sense, patriotism and healthy politics that Miloš Zeman is doing! So thank you, my friends, to all those who will not vote in favour of making a change in our policy by condemning Miloš Zeman, because this cannot be trusted at this moment, what these gentlemen have brought us and demonstrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u17	I thank Mr Jaroslav Foldyn. Now two factual points. First Mr. Josef Hájek, then Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u18	Mr President, colleagues, I would still respond to the words of Mrs Němcová through Mr President and Mr Čižinský. I also do not agree with President Zeman's statement, I completely agree with you that we should condemn such a statement. But what media attention was given to the President's statement, and what media attention was given to Mr Polčák's statement? Well, almost none. Now, Mrs Němcová, through the President, answer me if an ANO Member had said a similar statement to that of Mr Polčák, what would have happened? There would be demonstrations, an online broadcast of Czech television, a million moments running around with banners around our Member's residence - and now it's quiet by foot. Is that fair? I don't think so, from my point of view. I'd still respond to Mr Čižinský. Excuse me, what secret choice? After all, each Member shall vote according to his best knowledge and conscience whether he votes secretly or publicly. Do you mean, then, that we should vote secretly about the government's trust or distrust of the government so that the MP doesn't worry? I think it's wrong. My opinion is - let us express ourselves on this proposal clearly, clearly, uprightly. I don't really have a problem with it, and I don't think most of our colleagues do either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u19	I thank Mr Hájek for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of order now, and then Mr Válek's point of order with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u20	Thank you. Allow two brief remarks on the speaker, one consenting, the other disagreeable. I agree with Mr Foldyna that many people are going to tap each other's heads today, no doubt. However, I would like to remind you again what our task is. Mr. Foldyna warned us not to condemn the President of the Republic. He said thank you to those who would not allow us to condemn Miloš Zeman. Please, that's not our job. Our task is nothing more than either to allow or not to allow the Senate to judge the Constitutional Court. Nothing more, nothing less. Do you have so little confidence in the objectivity of the Constitutional Court that you're afraid of getting the lawsuit on his desk? Or do you know how it would turn out, and that's why you're scared?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Válek's point of view is now in effect. And then there's a waiting colleague named Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I felt the same way here as Mr Kalousek, Mr President, because I did not want to perform at all, and now I am just going to allow myself, and I hope that you will not be angry, through Mr President Mr Hájek, on such a small replica. For one thing, I am very pleased that you are putting Mr Polčák and Mr President in the same bowl. I don't know if it's an honor for Mr. President or Mr. Polčák. Everyone needs to think about that. But the fact is that the statements made by MEPs for the ANO movement simply don't concern anyone either. Even I sometimes feel that not even the YES movement. And Mr Polčák is a Member of the European Parliament, so maybe that is why the public response was not so strong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka will now be speaking, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u24	Good afternoon, Mr President, ministers of two, colleagues and colleagues. And I also greet the public at the gallery today exceptionally, because even in the morning and now it is clear that there is public interest here, in the morning it was bigger, on this topic it is. And I must say that I am sorry to hear the President of the House of Vondraèek today, who was reading the number of pardoned Members, how many pardoned Members today, many of whom were still here tonight among us, healthy, full of strength, and mysteriously lost this morning. I understand that things can happen, but it is not usual for one quarter of Members to be absent from such an important subject. Because I think I understand various responsibilities in the regions, expert conferences, foreign trips, but I think there are certain moments when votes are taken, for example. about trust, distrust of the government, or when constitutional laws are being discussed here, the Constitution, or things related to the Constitution, so I think it should be a duty for a Member to be here today, no matter how the Member looks at the subject. Whether it's in or out. But I think it has some importance and some seriousness. I dare to start a little untraditional than my previous speakers do today. And I'll take the liberty of reading two vows here. The first one is the pledge of the MP and the senator. "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." And then I dare to read the promise of the President of the Republic. "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honor that I will uphold my office for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." And here I come to the essence of my performance tonight, where I ask myself, as the proponents of the senate constitutional lawsuit ask themselves, if the president hasn't stepped out of line with his promise. If he respects the Constitution and the laws of this country. Because every citizen, every company has to respect the laws that apply to it. And the moment we break them, we're supposed to have equality before the law, and that law has the same effect on all of us. I'm not a lawyer. And I'm not the one who specializes in the issue of the Constitutional Legal Committee. But in this matter, I have tried to listen to those people who have something to say on this subject. And my decision as to why I decided here today in the vote, which may very likely not be successful in the sense of the word, so that we can move this constitutional Senate action to the Constitutional Court, but I have decided to support this effort. And I guess I'm based, let's just say, on my decision about the authority that is really called on in this matter. And that is when I have listened in recent months to the statements made by the President of the Constitutional Court, Pavel Rychetský, I think that he has quite clearly named these things in these matters. And I dare to quote some here. President of the Constitutional Court Pavel Rychetský said in an interview for Czech Radio Plus: Inaction of President Miloš Zeman, who did not decide on the proposal of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to appeal the Minister of Culture, is not in accordance with constitutional order. "The Absolute Lord of the Government is the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister has, in fact, unlimited competence, whom he nominates through the President to the Government and whom he removes from the Government through the President," emphasizes the head of the Constitutional Court. Chancellor principle of the Czech Constitution. It is precisely the fact that the Constitution does not impose any time limit on the President in this matter, which is what Zeman argues, according to Rychetský, that the head of state has no room for reflection and has this obligation to fulfil without undue delay. "On this point, the Constitution is uncompromising." This is said by a person who, I think, is really very competent on the issue of constitutional law. And we are in a situation today where we should decide whether we will not give these people who understand this issue a chance to assess whether the President of the Czech Republic has moved outside the Constitution. By the way, wherever and whenever the Democrats were idly looking at undermining the principles of the state, i.e. respect for the Constitution, it subsequently led to weakening or even winding up democracy itself, and the emergence of various forms of totalitarian regimes. And here's the president who's trying to get as far as he can within the Constitution, when he can break, bend. And I think it's important that we give space here to make sure that the playground is clearly surrounded once and for all and it's said, "This is in line, this isn't. In the past, there have also been some doubts with the previous presidents about whether they, too, have gone beyond the Constitution. That is why I am convinced that, for the future, the Constitutional Court should make it clear in these matters in the form of an assessment that should be carried out here. I would like to add a few more moments that are directly related to the Constitution, but also with the powers of our President and honor, his honor of our legislation and decisions, such as the courts. I must say that I mind if the President of the Czech Republic does not respect and exercise his powers. Such as. the question of the appointment of university professors who, from the perspective of both the higher education law and the internal regulations of Charles University, fulfilled all the conditions for the appointment of professors. And when the president writes to the Minister of Education by letter and argues with the ethics code of school and professor - and now I quote - moral degradation, and draws them from Ošťádalův's contacts with the Communist State Security, it seems more than smiling to me in the light of who the President is willing to subsequently appoint as Prime Minister. Then it is also a question of disrespect for the courts in Peroutka's case. I'm sorry that the President just couldn't come and say, "I was wrong." I'm sorry. I'm sorry to my family. And unfortunately, the trial had to take place in vain. It cost us taxpayers almost CZK 200,000. We all make mistakes. I, too, have apologized several times from this place in this House for the things that I have said inexactly, or where I may have doubted. Mr. Faltýnek had a big emotional performance here. He felt like he was covered in love here, and he was all wet like he said. I confess, I wasn't that impressed. And especially when Mr. Faltýnek said there's no definition here that would say what a gross violation of the Constitution is. So she's already spoken here today, and I'm quoting her again, because that definition is given. It was also agreed by professional constitutional lawyers Mr. Kysela, Mr. Wintr in 2017. And they clearly say: One-off violation of the rule or principle of fundamental importance, but also repeated violations of the Constitution, which, as a result, undermines the constitutional system. They clearly defined these things. [[16.40 hours]] Mr. Faltýnek here also said that when the football game is over, there's nothing we can do about it. He said so in relation to the past misdemeanors of the President, mentioned by the Senate Constitutional Prosecution. But it also works in the sport that when it is found that the athlete played unfairly, that he doped, then, for example, the prizes that he received are taken away from him. One thing is, you're not gonna return the game, but the other thing is, you're gonna make it clear where fair play is. And I want fair play to be true here in politics in the Czech Republic. And it kind of reminds me of this nasty thing that's been spreading around here lately, and that's that we're all equals, but some of us are more equal, and just these papalasian manners, that for some people justice like it doesn't have a meter. And I think it would be good for us to make this possible. And I have the final summary. I have a fundamental question to ask myself when deciding: has the President violated the Constitution? I don't know. I don't know if there's been a gross violation of the Constitution, but just because I don't know for sure, I want him to be able to judge the Constitutional Court, which is competent to do so. Our role today is whether we will express by our vote whether we think there is a reason for some of the President's actions to be reviewed by the Constitutional Court. And I think the reasons are here. Probably the biggest question marks are the situations such as the non-revocation of ministers Staněk and without undue delay the appointment of Minister Šmarda or the holding of government in power, especially in the case of the government of Jiří Rusnok. Those are the reasons I would like the Constitutional Court to judge. And I may be wrong, maybe most of us will be wrong, but I would like the Constitutional Court to see the space for which, among other things, this institution is set up here and is defined in our constitutional order, so that we give this opportunity to the Constitutional Court, so that we can also see if the statements made in the public space by the President of the Constitutional Court of Rychetský, if other judges of the Constitutional Court also see it that way. Thank you for your attention and for the rational consideration of the arguments I have been trying to make here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u25	I thank Mr Jurečka. Before I give the floor with the rapporteur's priority right, there is a factual comment by Mr Zdeněk Podal. My colleague Grebeníček is ready, but with priority rights, the rapporteur will be here. I state my apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Petr Pávek apologizes from 14:30 to 19:00 for the sake of the hearing, further apologizes from 16.30 to the end of the working day for the reasons of the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government Alena Schillerová, cancels his apology Josef Hájek, who has already spoken, and from 17.15 Mr Petr Nacher apologises. On the basis of the questions I have received, I refer to the proposal of my colleague Čižinský that § 70 para. 5 does not address the method of voting on this matter, and we will therefore have to decide at the end before the final vote on how to vote on the proposal to give consent to the Senate's constitutional action to the Constitutional Court. So we're going to decide how to vote at the end. That is why I pointed out to my colleague Čižinský that this is not a procedural proposal in a classic form under Section 54. Now, therefore, the rapporteur, Zuzana Ožanová, with priority rights, will be prepared by colleague Grebeníček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just going to react very briefly. I'm not going to comment on my colleague Jurečka's whole speech. One thing surprised me is that the definition of gross violation of the Constitution and constitutional order is given by the expression of some lawyers. I don't know what the examiners at the law school would say, if they'd pass the exam after that. Indeed, the definition cannot be given by expressing a group of lawyers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u27	Thank you. So now Zdeněk Podal factual remarks and Marian Jurečka. First, a colleague named Podal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say for myself, I am proud of my president. I'm not ashamed of it. I had the honor of helping him in his election campaign. I believe he was the best candidate and did not disappoint his constituents. Its popularity is demonstrated by the results of a poll. I consider this suit to be ankle-kicking to our president. Angry people aren't always wise. Since the President has neuropathy feet, as is known, I do not consider it wise to kick his ankles yet. At least I refuse to sue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Jurečka, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u30	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of responding to my colleague Ožanová, who responded to me. Please, in the case of Professor Kysela, I think that if someone is the head of the department, they're probably testing students. Normally, interpretations are made in legislation so that the subsequent practice knows how to interpret and apply legislation in practice. And if these renowned gentlemen I quoted gave an interpretation in this area, I think it has a relatively high legal relevance, and I would not dare to question these things. I suppose if there were any students at Professor Kysela's exam and he had that question, I suppose he's answering it in that spirit, because it's simply being interpreted that way. If we question these things, then we will question much more serious things in our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. There is one more factual remark from Mr Výborný. My colleague Grebeníček will be able to wait. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u32	Thank you. I will be very brief, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to my colleague Ožanová, respectively. To my colleague Jurečka. Of course, we have different opinions of legal capacity, something says Professor Gerloch, something else Dr. Kudrna, something else Professor Kysela. We could go on and on like this. But that is precisely why I think that we should all, in the interests of the matter and in the interests of the decision, the real decision, simply move the matter to the Constitutional Court, because it is no longer about the competition of legal capacity, but it is about the Constitutional Court's decision. The only one, this one instance, can tell you how this thing is or isn't. And then we all have to respect that, because the one who decides whether or not something is in accordance with the Constitution, in this case the President of the Republic, we are not, and I point out, it is not even any of those constitutional lawyers, it is their expert opinion, but the only one who can say "this is what it is and so it is meant to be and so the person should behave or should not behave" is the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before Grebeníček takes the floor, I state the apology of Mrs Margita Balaštíková from 17.30 to the end of the meeting day. Mr Miroslav Grebeníček will now prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I note that most senators have decided to bring a constitutional action against the President of the Republic, who has been elected by citizens in direct elections, the first thing that has come to mind after all the special-purpose campaigns of the main players and after all the political plotting, is the question of legitimacy and rationality of such a move, especially in view of traditional political overachievement and the fact that even experts, and today this has been said several times, will disagree on constitutional law on some of the President's practices. And many other facts have come to mind, such as the one when Miloš Zeman declared in the former Federal Assembly that we must appreciate the values that have passed the test of time and that are returning after 40 years. He also talked about the fact that in the early 1950's, in Mníšek pod Brdy, the metal - rich ore, like marxism, began to benefit from ideas. [[16.50 hours]] In July 1990, Miloš Zeman probably had no idea that the Brit would choose Karel Marx as the millennia thinker nine years later in the BBC poll. Of course, Miloš Zeman has had other flinges over the past 30 years. For example, when he publicly stated in 1991 that we were in the 50th place in the world behind Nepal in terms of education system changes, but that was far from the reality. I'm a long way from taking or taking anyone's word for it. However, it is a fact that I strongly criticised Miloš Zeman, especially in 1999, when he agreed to bomb Yugoslavia as Prime Minister without any comments. Today, however, we are considering completely different matters, as Miloš Zeman has been repeatedly elected president. In this context, I find it undoubted that the initially weak position of the President of the Republic, elected by Parliament and charged to specific political parties, their pulling and sometimes strange agreements, has changed greatly. While the position of the Senate falls in the eyes of citizens, and it is generally very low, as has been shown by poor and unrepresentable electoral participation, the position of head of state on the contrary has become a direct choice of weight. The President directly elected by the citizens, as we witness, has ceased to be dependent on the parties and interest groups that have proposed and opposed its predecessors and opponents. That is why today, to blame the current, directly elected president's citizens for having previously been elected predecessors of his Parliament, I find it late. [[What?]] There is a certain dose of hypocrisy on the part of specific parties and persons. If most senators have opposed the President of the Republic, then with all the critical reservations I have on the current head of state, I consider the efforts of the senators and their parties and allies to sue rather as an attempt to settle their accounts. We are talking about media shakes of political feathers. I would like to say that the arguments of the Senate suit are not strong enough. I note attempts to interpret the steps or shortcomings of the head of state as unconstitutional, beyond the edge of the Constitution, even though they are not by their nature or intensity. I do not share the actions of the one-eyed, who consider their opponents and presidents to be an excavation of vice and of themselves as chosen, omniscient, savior. At this point I see as critical and urgent completely different problems of Czech society and Czech politics. There are serious social, economic, environmental problems, issues of ensuring peace and security of the Republic and citizens. I don't think it's because, instead of all this, we should be exhausted by the throngs of powerful and vain exhibitionists. The Senate's motion in the form presented in a specific social context and circumstances is to be regarded as such a case of a proxy dispute. That is why, like my party colleagues, I will not support the Senate's action against the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman. As they sometimes say, bůh save our lord, another could be an even greater blow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u35	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. I have here one factual comment by Mr Vlastimil Válek, to which I will give the floor on a factual point. Mrs Helena Válková is ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I volunteered because I was confused by the end of the speech when, through Mr President Grebeníček, he overwhelmingly criticized many of President Zeman's actions - and I think he was the sharpest of all the speeches so far in this regard - gradually defined what the President had done wrong and what he had broken and, at the beginning, very brilliantly justified why we should support the constitutional lawsuit. And I like the way he said it, because he clearly defined it - yes, two groups of experts cannot agree, two groups of experts have a different opinion as to whether it is a violation of the Constitution or not. Well, who else should decide what it's like? And I will be very happy, and I hope that this Constitutional Court will say no, there is no violation of the Constitution, the President is doing the right thing. After all, he's my president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact to Mr Válek. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Mrs Helena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u38	Mr President, my dear colleagues, my role will not be quite easy, because my speech, which I have prepared as others, because it is a very important opportunity that is likely to enter into the history of parliamentary debate - as our President of the Chamber of Deputies Mr Vondráček has already indicated - was already the substance of the content of this material. So if you think I'm paraphrasing something, it's true. They're opinions I share as well. Yet I dare to convey some of the thoughts that have not yet been heard here to you in my speech. First of all. And it's what I haven't been hiding and what I'm saying to my colleagues and colleagues at the club. And we can say that I also try to convey in this way in a certain way - I do not always succeed - knowledge and knowledge of the theory of law. One. I certainly do not think that we should forget one of the fundamental principles of division of power and leave to the Constitutional Court what belongs only to us, the sovereign legislator. We are the only ones who should define what is a gross violation of the Constitution and constitutional order. I think that relying on - even I personally believe - that this problem will be solved by the Constitutional Court for us is not only reckless, but also irresponsible. I have to make a turn. In the first year of law school students learn to distinguish interpretations within the subject of law theory. Interpretation systematic, interpretation authentic, interpretation doctrinal. And -- and they're being fired for that, or at least they don't give an "A" -- there's a trick question. So what is the legal definition, the legal definition. For example - now I am thinking from my area - mental disorder, Section 123 of the Criminal Code. That's where I have a legal definition. That's where I can stick to it. Otherwise, everything else is just noncommittal interpretations. So a systematic interpretation, and I will be demonstrating this to you in a moment, I think, is the interpretation where something can be done from the context of the whole system, in this case the Constitution and other constitutional regulations, which we include under the broader concept of constitutional order. It's casual, it's a clue. Two. Another such interpretation is the interpretation authentic. Who's serving it? Whoever is the author of the relevant standard - Parliament. Do we have that interpretation? [[17,00 hours]] Three. The interpretation of the court, in this case only the interpretation made by the Constitutional Court. But he only pays inter parts, i.e. between the parties. He won't solve the problem for us. And then, of course, the interpretation that we've been talking about here all along, and that's the interpretation of scientific, doctrinal, prestigious, which gives the capacity of constitutional law in cases where there's no legal definition. This interpretation is not binding. I'd say there aren't just two groups here. As I have studied statements and literature, at least I have three groups, but there may be more opinions about what it is and what it is not a gross violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic. But it gave me a pretty simple message for us. We need this gap, which, by the way, my previous speaker mentioned, now the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Filip - we should not, first of all, even take this competence, and we should fill this gap as soon as possible. We have here the Constitutional Commission and it is one of the tasks that we should be dealing with. Of course, she has also moved some comments with me and I have tried, I think, successfully, to keep it apart from my performance and, of course, I don't have to comment on the fact that if Professor Gerloch is supposedly partying to the President, then Professor Kysela - and now I don't want to say, in the interest of whom he is most performing, where he is employed, for whom he is working his opinions, I could continue this way with other experts, Mr. Kudrna, Wintr, but I don't want to touch those whom I am not going to name now by not naming them. It's just that each of us, including me, we work for someone, but we have to respect certain principles. And here's the first conclusion. We don't have a definition. What is being pretended here are non-binding interpretations and we are not to let them lead us, fool ourselves and the responsibility and at the same time our task and duty to define and improve, improve the Constitution in this very critical area as soon as possible. And I'm sure the task won't be easy. That is the first point I wanted to draw attention to here. The second point is that the systematic interpretation - and now you can take it that The Válková here tells you its non-binding, even more or less professional legal opinions, you can follow them, lead them, you can use them in your argument, but you don't have to. Of course, I will reach into the area closest to me, the area of criminal law. This systematic interpretation - my colleagues in constitutional law may not agree with me 100% - reminds me of both treason and gross violation of the Constitution, such quasi-criminal offences. And here I will apply one of the basic principles not only of criminal law, but especially of criminal law. We can never prosecute, prosecute, and condemn someone for something that is vaguely defined, where there is no definition. This is indeed, as has already been said here, as if we were prosecuting someone for a crime or a crime, a particularly serious crime, which very grossly violates the rule of law and threatens our fellow citizens. I just can't. For this there is a very old Latin principle, which tells us that without the legal definition of a certain substance, a certain act, there is neither guilt nor any punishment. I would like to disagree with one conclusion, although it is very expressive and eloquent, that such a punishment for the President of the Republic would be equal to a life sentence if the constitutional lawsuit were successful. It would be a punishment for a ban on activity. Even if the consequences were fatal, they would really be like a death sentence or a life sentence. We do not have the death penalty, but there has been a death penalty on the part of Mr Faltýnek. Nullum crimen sine lege, nulla poena sine lege - it applies here, it is a crime, even if sui generis, and we must apply this principle to it. So, secondly, we would violate here by not having the constitutionally defined nature of these offences, one of the basic principles on which the rule of law is built and which we learn about when we teach students in the field of law theory. But as I'm saying, it's an interpretation, it's a systematic interpretation, and let's say it's doctrinal, but it's certainly not a binding interpretation for you. Another conclusion that I wanted to highlight from what was said here - and this is nothing original anymore. There is a discount in the exercise of power, including the power of executive and including the exercise of presidential office. So here I would point out the understandable, concise and correct statement by Mr Michálek, who says that we should be concerned, if only by two alleged offences. I'm saying it's alleged, because there hasn't been a decision to file a lawsuit yet, and that's what it's all about. failure to fulfil certain constitutional obligations in connection with withdrawal and appointment. And the second offense - interference with the independence of the judiciary. So I'm gonna start with the second offense, because I think that the subject of our consideration and further analysis should only be the first alleged offense. I rule out the other as a member of the subcommittee, which dealt with the possible influence of judicial independence, when the former President of the Supreme Administrative Court, doktor Baxa, replied that these interventions did not interfere with the independence of judicial authority, and it does not matter how non-binding interpretation was once again introduced here - because of the strong moral integrity of the judges in question - of course he meant himself, which I understand very well, because I know him and his moral integrity is certainly very strong. I'm just surprised, let me sigh so much that if it happened to him, he hesitated for two and a half years... But in any case, I understand that some decisions are made after a long time. And it just didn't. It didn't happen that the independence was at risk. And we don't know - I'm based on what we've been told - what the gentlemen have said. There was no investigation here. So I can believe it, and I don't have to believe it. If the President were there, he'd probably say the opposite. And that's what we have to prove. So far, neither has the result, let alone the causal link, let alone the negotiations. It was a unilateral hearing of one of the participants who was logically biased. Logically, because he's defending his cause. So it would be a violation of one of the basic procedural rules - hear the other side. So I'm releasing it, that's not really possible. [[17.10 hours]] And as far as I'm concerned, first-named offense, that is. Inaction of the President of the Republic, there I think we should always, and I have already said this in a different context in the media, wondering whether the inaction is justified or not. Because I very much appreciate the President of the Constitutional Court of Rychetsky, who was quoted here, but it is once again a great authority for me, but not binding. That's his concept. I've got another one. Although I'm not even a judge of the Constitutional Court. I see the absence of time limits in the Constitution for the decision of the President of the Republic in such a way that this period, if justified not fulfilled immediately, is not immediately violated. And it's my interpretation. Helena Válková. No strings attached. So the others that we've been talking about, unfortunately, or thank God for you, because it's late afternoon, I don't have to repeat. I can explain, but a number of the arguments you have heard from the speakers, which you can probably figure out which so-called. I'd support the party. On the other hand, I reject in principle any kind of support for the political continuation of the fight for who should or should not be president in the form of a constitutional action, because the constitutional action is not really an instrument through which political or political-legal responsibility should be exercised. In this sense, I agree with what Mrs Ožanová said. So, in conclusion, of course, I don't even have to vote secretly, I'm against filing a constitutional lawsuit, and the main reason is that we would trust the Constitutional Court with a competence that belongs only to us as sovereigns, the legislature, and we would violate the principle of division of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u39	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. It raised two factual points, namely Mr Lipavský and Mr Dominik Feri. My colleague Gajdůškovášková will wait a little longer. Now, Mr Lipavský, on a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Válková for her contribution. The mention that we all work for someone, it really seemed like a probe into the soul of some kind of thinking, into a world where someone works for someone. Of course, people go to work, they have jobs, but academics have jobs, or people have employers, and it's not like someone has to work for someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government present, I do not envy the situation of Mrs Válková through Mr President. Because she has to find a legal lid on a political pot, and it's looking really hard. Quote here Latin maxims nullum crimen sine lege or nulla poena sine lege seems somewhat inappropriate to me, because the Constitutional Court and Constitution law define clearly what error or what an unconstitutional act is and what punishment is associated with it. As for the facts, to define them in the Constitution, I think it is completely unreasonable. And for what reason? Because the legislature can never affect all the unconstitutional actions that may occur. If we put a deadline in place that the president has to keep, it can be contrary to real life. If we put in there: he will call off the minister within 15 days, within 30 days - perhaps there may be some situation where political negotiations need to be conducted, very complex political negotiations. Thirty days won't be enough. Will he then automatically commit a gross violation of the Constitution? Indeed, I find that very inappropriate. Let's look at the situation in America, how it's conceived in America. Yes, the U.S. Constitution says that if the president or vice president commits some kind of treachery, bribery, or bribery, then impeachment can take place. But there is also a big window to say that these are other similar crimes, or other widespread errors, precisely to leave a large window for the real life that simply cannot be affected by the legislator. And to list that the president will commit a gross violation of the Constitution when one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, it's just not appropriate, it's not practical. And that interpretation will give us binding legal -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u43	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Thank you. Now, with the rapporteur's factual remark and then Mr Marian Jurečka, also with a factual remark. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u44	Mr President, by your means, Dominik, I believe that this was an entirely inappropriate statement against the person of Professor Válková on some kind of lid. I respect the professor, and I think she really thinks the opinions she says.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, also with a point of fact. My kolegyně Gajdůškovášková is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u46	Thank you. I also say the opinions I think, and I allow myself to comment on two things here. I think it is at least important for me here if the rule of law is to function in order for the three pillars to remain here: too legislative, executive and judicial. That's how it was set. I think it's working fine. It's got some logic. And I can't imagine that too much legislative has begun to subjugate too much justice in some areas. I confess, I'm surprised. I don't know how we should judge here whether or not something is in accordance with the Constitution or the like. That's really what the competent authority has to do with it. It's got the equipment. And now, to the one substance that was mentioned in the debate, the question of when the President should act and whether or not we should put time limits in the Constitution. Please nicely, I once again quote what the President of the Constitutional Court of Rychetský said. It is precisely the fact that the Constitution does not impose any time limit on the President in this matter, by what Zeman argues, according to Rychetský, that the head of state has no room for reflection and has this obligation to fulfil without undue delay. On this point, the Constitution is uncompromising, delivered by the High Authority, the President of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. And I think that two and a half months is not something that fits that definition. But that's why, as I said in my speech at the end - I don't have the right to make decisions about it and to say guilty, not guilty or anything like that. We're just saying, there's an authority that we're going through, and we don't have to exhaust ourselves here with long discussions. It could have been approved in the morning if there was good will. And then the Senate would either indirectly give us the truth to those who support it, or, on the contrary, it would tear down how some here criticized, as it is written and conceived, this Senate constitutional lawsuit. [[The U.S.?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another point in fact, Mrs Helena Válková, followed by a speech by Mrs Gajdůškovášková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I won't tire you of some too theoretical interpretation, but please, dear fellow Member Feri, through you, Mr Vice-President, see how treason is defined. We wouldn't have a problem if it were filled. The one in the Constitution is sufficiently defined. And from that, you will understand what I meant by the absence of analog definition of gross violation of the President's powers. I recommend it as a study tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u49	I thank my colleague Válková for keeping time on a point of fact. Now, Mrs Gajdůšková. A colleague of Lipavský will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Madam Members, I am not a lawyer, so I cannot participate in this legal debate. I'm an MP at the moment, talking to people. Let me take a look at the whole thing at their point of view. The opinion of the Social Democracy Club is well known, it was presented here by Kateřina Valachová and I share it. I just want to say why. To begin with, perhaps I would like to say that if we care about constitutionality and the rule of law in our country, we simply need to talk about the President's actions. For this reason, the content of the constitutional action by the senators is an important impetus to the debate. She's not in vain today's discussion. She is, in my opinion, very valuable. I would really stand up for the senators here. The Senate is a constitutional insurance policy, and they took up this role. But the question is whether there is an appropriate response to some of the actions and statements, and here I stress, the directly elected president, indeed, is a constitutional action that is intended to deprive him of his mandate. The declaration by the Social Democracy Club that we will not actively support the bringing of a constitutional action is not a decision of any party secretariat. I'd be very, very personal here. I do not know how in other political parties, but in our country, decisions are made in the debate in our elected bodies, with our members, with our citizens. In this case, frankly, they don't really understand what we're dealing with here. They tell us that you are there for us, stop worrying about yourself, because they feel a little bit about this discussion that we are dealing with ourselves, and solve people's problems. They point to long waiting times for medical examinations and procedures, the impossibility of providing housing for young people, adequate care for seniors and millions of problems and bureaucracy when communicating with authorities, social problems not only in excluded localities, but also singles and singles, environmental and transport problems. Kateřina Valachová spoke of the legal quality of the text. From the citizens, but there is a great doubt among the lawyers whether the corresponding response to the holding of the directly elected president is to deprive him of his mandate. I already talked about that. We have also said to the Social Democracy Club that we will mostly not be against this lawsuit. The constitutional system of the rule of law and its independent existence are determined by the division of power between legislative, executive and judicial powers. This has been said several times, and every elementary school student knows this. The constitution, the first law of the state, then anchors balancing these powers, mutual control, brakes and counterweights, and thus tools to maintain that balance. Here I want to remind you that Parliament has two instruments in its hands with the President, who is part of the executive power. One is a constitutional lawsuit we're discussing. The second is the transfer of the President's powers to other constitutional officials if the President cannot act. I will just remind myself, with modesty, that I was the one who initiated and then filed a constitutional suit against Václav Klaus for the Senate in 2013 for his amnesty, which he freed from punishment by those who were convicted of economic crimes not only in the 1990s. And then I was very disappointed that the Constitutional Court did not deal with the Senate's action at the time by reasoning that the mandate of Václav Klaus, then president, had already ended. We were expecting then, and now I speak for the senators at that time, what the senators are talking about today, that the Constitutional Court will give a clear statement on what is and what is not in accordance with the Constitution for the Future. It didn't happen. Speaking of the future, I have to go back a little bit to the past, and that is to Miloš Zeman himself, who and his actions are the text we are discussing. The individual steps described here are highly related to social democracy. And I wonder if the plaintiffs asked whether the President went to the limit of constitutionality only in relation to social democracy, or only the authors of the lawsuit wanted the Social Democrats to be in a situation where they could not support the proposal. That would also lead me to the morning statements that the lawsuit actually protects social democracy. But ladies and gentlemen, social democracy is a sovereign party, it does not need protection. She needs to be able to take care of herself. And as I know the internal circumstances of social democracy, we have a relationship with Miloš Zeman. It is true that Miloš Zeman, in action "clean hands" in the fight against corruption, brought social democracy into government. The governments of social democracy and the application of the principles of the social market economy, governance on the basis of social dialogue meant that they remained, despite all efforts to break down and privatise everything available to the public, the Czech Republic is now a functioning European social state. Miloš Zeman stood there at the beginning, and he cannot be denied that. The government's commitment to social democracy, among other things, meant and means that the Czech Republic is today the sixth safest country in the world, and today's information is that the Czech Republic is also the seventh most advanced country in the world according to the index of the United Nations' sustainable development objectives. Miloš Zeman, however, ended up leading social democracy in 2003. I'll keep what might develop further, except for a description in my memoirs. I'm not going to comment on that at this point. No one here can appeal to any of our debts or submissivities towards Miloš Zeman. All I'm saying is, be forgiven. I view the current lawsuit and view it as a social democracy only from the point of view of the division of power in the state. [[17.30 hours]] Madam Members, it is probably not a dispute that, according to the Constitution, the President should have acted without delay on the application for an appeal and then on the appointment of the Minister. Finally, some of you relied on the expression of such renowned legal capacities as Pavel Rychetský. At a time when this was happening, about July, I said that the constitutional system had to respond, and on the question of journalists, I admitted that I would support the initiative of the senators. However, at that time I proposed to apply Article 66 of the Constitution, where it is said that if the President cannot act, the resolution of the two chambers of Parliament will transfer his powers to two other constitutional factors, the Prime Minister and the President of the Chamber of Deputies. But constitutional lawyers at the time argued that this provision was meant only in case the president was completely infirm. Today, however, some lawyers are once again talking about this matter. From my point of view, let's say layman, simply Czech: if someone doesn't do what he has to do, so apparently for some reason he can't act. The Constitution of the Czech Republic does not give room to consider whether or not it wants to act as a constitutional official. In this case, he doesn't give him the will. This seems to me an appropriate response to a situation in which the government was incomplete because the President refused to respect the Prime Minister's declared will for the composition of his government, I mean Article 66 of the Constitution. But the situation has changed since then. The Minister of Culture is appointed entirely according to constitutional rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I must hear what citizens say to me, even those who did not vote for Miloš Zeman or absolutely disagree with his position in foreign policy. The abolition of the mandate of a directly elected president is not an appropriate response to the current situation, however the President may have been at the edge of the Constitution in the past or tried to go beyond its borders. That's what Kateřina Valachová was talking about. Therefore, I cannot vote in favour of the proposed action, but given the description of the situation it contains, I cannot say that I could be too inconsistent with the description. I can't be against her either. I'll hold off on the vote. However, if there is a situation in the future when the President, whoever he is, will not act, even if he does act under the Constitution, and I will still be there, I will initiate the launching of Article 66 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u51	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. There is one factual point, Mr Marian Jurečka. Ready in the debate is Mr Lipavský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u52	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of following up on my colleague Gajdůšková. In the last two months, when I have spoken to people, with citizens, they have told me: how is it possible that a double standard can apply here in this state? We must respect legal obligations, we as parents must do what the law requires us to do, put the child in preschool education, give tax returns, respect the rules of road traffic. If we don't respect that, there will be punishment, sanctions will come. Here's the president who's capable of perjuring someone, and the court will order him to apologize. He doesn't respect the decision of the court, we as taxpayers will pay nearly CZK 200,000 for this entire anabasa. Which one of us would be paid for court expenses if we framed someone and were to bear the costs of the trial? Nobody's paying for us. The citizens would have paid for it. And people say, it's not possible, whether he's head of state or anyone else, a high-ranking constitutional officer, not to respect the laws and constitution of this state. So I'd like us to give some room here so that it can show if the boundaries can apply equally to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual point, from Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. My colleague Lipavský will wait. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Jurečka's words. It's a bit of a misunderstanding. Even if someone does not fulfil any obligation in relation to his children, as he has said, he is not deprived of parental rights. He's just gonna get sanctioned. And that's what I'm talking about. Eliminating a directly elected president's mandate, even if he may be on some border, or perhaps at some point beyond the borders, is simply not an adequate sanction. She was talking about it here, Mrs. Válková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Lipavský has the floor, Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u56	Mr Vice-President, honourable Senators, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, what are we debating today, if I think I know the outcome? Isn't that just an empty rhetorical exercise? I don't think so. I have read the lawsuit thoroughly, and I have found a point that is very, very much affecting what we are dealing with here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's a point E that solves the novice case. Now, I'm going to read a little bit so we have the context, and we're going to go over this timeline, and we're going to go all the way to a moment that's getting very interesting. Following the previous attack by a nervous paralytic poison named A-234, which belongs to a group of so-called novices developed in the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the former military intelligence agent of the Russian Federation Sergej Skripal of 4 March 2018, which was committed in Salisbury, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, she called the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Theresa May the most likely Russian Federation on 12 March 2018, which was subsequently confirmed. Of course, Russia was trying to respond to this situation at the time, and 17 March 2018 the press spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation tried to disprove this by claiming that since the 1990s, the Czech Republic and some other states have been conducting intensive research on substances from the novichok group. And now it's getting interesting because the Czech Republic is getting into this case. The Foreign Minister, then Stropnický for YES, immediately gives a negative opinion on where he opposes this. Soon after that, Karla Šlechtová is speaking about our international commitments. Again, he's strictly resisting. And the Russian Federation repeats this claim on 21 March by communication from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where it once again says that it considers the Czech Republic to be a country that has been developing substances from a group of novichoks. On 26 March, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš announced the Government's intention to join the expulsion operation and was subsequently expelled, I believe, by one, maybe up to three members of the Russian Federation mission in the Czech Republic. Let's keep going. At that point, President Zeman, who issues a press release, informs that he will accept the BIS director, whom he subsequently accepts and publicly imposes, publicly, he simply speaks of it as to whether or not he developed or stored nerve gas from a group of novices, already in industrial or scientific engineering facilities. It's hard to think that she's gonna do a secret service assignment in public on her own. This is responded by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which condemned it on 3 April that this makes it impossible to fulfil the task assigned. That's April 3rd. Let's keep going. On 26 April, the press spokesperson of the BIS stated at the request of the Czech News Agency that the task was completed and the result will be handed over to the President of the Republic within the specified deadline. At the same time, the President of the Republic has published information that he has also assigned a task to Military Intelligence, so the President has actually played such an own news game, and of course the assignment was the same as with the BIS. The President announced that in the Czech Republic in small quantities and for testing purposes it was produced in the Military Research Institute in Brno a nervous paralytic substance called Novice A-230, which belongs to a group of novices, and was destroyed after testing. At the same time, the President said that the Security Information Service concluded that this substance was not among the novices. That means he created a fictitious contradiction between these two services. We will then learn that it has actually been refuted at Parliament's negotiations. The President then called it hypocrisy to pretend that nothing like this had happened in the Czech Republic. [[17.40 hours]] On the same day, Minister of Defence Karla Šlechtová responded to this speech by the President, who said that she could not comment on the public statement of the President of the Republic because the President was talking about information that was classified in the regime. That means he was breaking the law at the time, leaking some V's or T's information. So the very disclosure could have been viewed as a criminal offence. However, it's just a crime that can't be categorized into those actions that... we're dealing with this constitutional lawsuit right now. In any case, it is important to say that the government subsequently opposed the President's statement. The Government has made clear that both intelligence agencies have stated in their reports that only a type A-230 substance obtained by microsynthesis has been tested, that is to say, in quantities that cannot be used under any circumstances for such type of attack. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on May 14th. And all these committees stated that the intelligence reports were in agreement because there Members and Senators were familiar with the content of those reports or with the key part of those reports. And now we come to 31 May, when an extraordinary meeting took place in the Chamber of Deputies, here, here, in this hall. I'll talk about that later. In the light of the above, the President of the Republic, in his approach and claim, which was contrary to the facts and based on the false interpretation of classified information provided by the intelligence services, the content of which was at the same time publicly disclosed and which supported the position of the Russian Federation contrary to a systematic and publicly repeated, presented by the Government's official foreign policy, which acted on the basis of verified intelligence information on the attack on Sergej Skripal in cooperation with other NATO Member States and on the support of one of NATO Member States of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. I'll skip the parts that talk about leaking information. The second part reads: "... has committed acts contrary to protected interests under Article 1 of Constitutional Law No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, which states that the protection of lives and health is a fundamental obligation of the state, and according to Article 54 (1) of the Act. 1 The Constitution is the President of the Republic head of the State and, as such, should not act contrary to these fundamental obligations or threaten the interests of the Czech Republic, thereby at the same time violating the promise of the President of the Czech Republic pursuant to Article 59 (1) of the Constitution. 2 The Constitution, according to which it has promised loyalty to the Czech Republic, and its office is to be held in the interests of all the people." Finally, it must also be added that the President of the Republic insisted on his position and approach. He never changed his mind, he didn't apologize, he said it was a mistake or a misunderstanding. He's kind of still holding that position. This is demonstrated, for example, by an interview provided by the Russian television station NTV, which was published on 9 December 2018, and repeated its claim that a novice was produced in the Czech Republic. So it's from the President. And now, on the part of this House, which, at the request of 55 Members, has called an emergency meeting on 31 May to address this issue. And why is that relevant? This is relevant because the same Members, who then set up the House's negotiations for this President's action on this case, will now decide on the action. I'll read the tape. He's short, so it's not that big of a deal. A proposal for a programme submitted by a group of Members, a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the alleged production and testing of a novelty in the territory of the Czech Republic. So on May 31, 2018, we are nine o'clock zero one. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček: honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. The meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure and at the request of 55 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Thursday, May 24th of this year. I beg you all to sign up with your cards - with your cards - and possibly tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Next, I'll skip the long block of apologies because it's not relevant to what we're talking about. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mr Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone. We can therefore proceed to the vote. President Vondráček continues: However, at this point, I note that the House is not a quorum, only 34 Members are enrolled. In parentheses - waits for a while. Once again, I will ask the Members to sign up with their cards. There is a comment from the stenographers: other Members are not logged in, the number of entries has only risen to 39. From the left we hear voices: We learn from you. I will add, as a memorial to this House, that it was most likely Mr Hájek, who enthusiastically presented himself here, that he copied it from some previous meeting of the House, that the government coalition had thus learned the trick of obstruction, that Members had come to the hall but violated the Rules of Procedure, because according to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - a part devoted to voting at the House meetings § 6 para. 2 - the first sentence shall read: "The Member shall, upon entry into the Chamber, sign in by means of a voting instrument." This was not done by the MEPs, especially YES, but probably by other parties, KSČM, SPD, because they wanted to set up the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, we can verify who was logged in at the time. Actually, we can't, because there's no vote to find out. So it's actually undetectable. But we know very well who Members were, from which parties it is. That's just obvious. President Vondráček continues: Since the treaty is far from fulfilled - we will wait a moment. He's probably waiting. In that case, I have no choice but to interrupt this meeting indefinitely until there is some agreement between the members of the parliamentary clubs, which is what I am doing here. Bartošek - in parentheses - approaches the microphone. President Bartošek with priority rights. No, no, no, I interrupted. In that case, the meeting is adjourned indefinitely and I will ask for a break of up to 9.20 so that we can set up the equipment, and we can continue the 13th meeting. The meeting was adjourned at 9.07. Overall, it lasted six minutes. It was a quick process. And the same MPs who then trumped it so that we couldn't talk about the novice will today reject the lawsuit, which has clearly and comprehensively shown how the President of the Republic behaved against the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u57	That was Mr Lipavský. He made some factual remarks. But before that, I'll read the apologies. The Chamber of Deputies apologizes from 17.45 to 19.00 for working reasons, Mr David Štolpa. He also apologizes for family reasons between 17.40 and 18.00 Mr Robert králíček. And the last apology is from Jana Levová, from 18 to 21 o'clock. A factual point - the first from Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. Another colleague Luzar, Feranec and Růžička. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u58	Thank you for your comment, Mr President. I had to make a quick note of it. Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my colleague, Mr Lipavský, because I have listened to this and I have completely freaked out. And basically, I realized that I wanted to fill it in. In our woods, my friends, there's no barking. There's a Russian bug in our woods and Miloš Zeman brought the bug in a cigarette box. So I'm impressed with his performance, Mr. Lipavský. So let's be afraid of the Russian bugs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Leo Luzar's point of order now. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to my colleague Lipavský through you. If any other member of Parliament had this speech from another political party, I would have taken it. But just from the pirát to use this particular case... I had a different name as I listened to it. Some Edward Snowden - his name - e-mailed the U.S. Secret Service, released them to the public, revealed them. What were the reactions of the official sites? If I had taken a colleague of Lipavský, as he read here, that is exactly how the US administration opposed him. Exactly the same arguments, exactly, and they'd like to arrest him, maybe even execute him for treason. And the pirát, ladies and gentlemen, are on the same line with those who, in my opinion, this courageous young man who dared to pull out the correspondence that we had the opportunity to read and learn how the foreign policy of the United States of America works to the world. And the pirát! Do you understand that? And listen or read the footage that he said here, what arguments he used, and look at the arguments that American prosecutors use against Snowden when they ask for his extradition and trial. You will find a beautiful parallel, and it is a beautiful example of the hypocrisy of the pirát here in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Milan Feranec, Mr Růžička, will be prepared with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to Mr Lipavský. What you said scared me. It really freaked me out. You have paused on the decision of the Members. And in your opinion, they wouldn't have the right ones. And who's to decide? The ones you choose in the pirate referendum? So far, we're Members here and we're gonna make decisions. That you don't like it, I find it really weird and for me it's scary, that revolutionary justice of yours, that revolutionary right of yours, as you say, who can or cannot decide! It's really scary for me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u63	I thank Mr Feranc for his time. Now Mr Pavel Růžička with a point of fact, then Mrs Langšádlová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was informed about the annual report on Military Intelligence in 2018, where I signed that this report was under secret regime, and before me, Mr Lipavský was signed. And I want to ask what entitles him to quote from this report here publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Langšádlová, with a factual point, and Mrs Hájek, with a factual point. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u66	Thank you for the floor. I haven't read the report, I haven't been signed, but the fact that President Zeman defended Russian interests and not the interests of the Czech Republic in the case of the Skripal case is absolutely clear from public sources. And I believe, my colleague, that when you read the report, you who have read the BIS report, even in public parts of it, must know that there is an attack on the Czech Republic by Russia and China in particular and that the situation is serious and that President Zeman is very often on the side of Russia and China and not defending the Czech interests, but the interests of these powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Josef Hájek, a colleague of Lipavský, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u68	Mr President, colleagues, I am sorry, but I had to speak because my colleague Lipavský, through Mr President, appointed me. I have the advantage of having an elephant's memory. I totally remember that day. There was an extraordinary meeting called, and now I don't know exactly the number, if 52, 53, 54 Members. We came here this morning and there were 30 of you, and we were just testing what is the real interest of you, those who called this extraordinary meeting, to attend it. That's why we pulled the cards. And since you didn't come in sufficient numbers, we didn't fill you. If the 52 of you were here, the meeting would go on. Perhaps Bartošek will remember through Mr President that we discussed this later in the Comments and Events tonight. And I would also like to take advantage of this moment that there is a live transmission, so I would like to announce to our citizens that the OKD Committee of Investigation is finishing its report, we should discuss it at the October meeting, and I hope that Czech Television will ensure a live transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u69	I thank my colleague Josef Hájek for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Lipavský's point of fact, then Mr Jurečka's colleague. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u70	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also take advantage of the fact that there is a live transmission. I'd like to say hello to my mom, because it's a unique opportunity to say it like that on a microphone. I thank Mr Hájek, through Mr President, for somehow confessing to the fact that they were the ones who pulled out the cards, that they were testing the present. That's great, too. You tested it through breaking the law. But now for the really serious thing that Mr. Růžička said. Yes, I was familiar with the Annual Report of Military Intelligence for 2018, but I did not quote from this report. I quoted from that document that's public, and that's from the constitutional lawsuit. Otherwise, if, after you've met the annual report, I believe you'll vote in favour of the lawsuit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now my colleague Marian Jurečka. Next up, colleague Holík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u72	Good evening. I allow myself to respond to a technical response to my colleague, Mr Kubíček. [[Groat]] I don't know if it's entirely fair to say that an MP comes to work in the morning, looks around and finds out that some of the other colleagues aren't here, so I pull up my card so the meeting can't go on. That seems strange to me. I can't explain it to people who normally work, that they'd just come to work, they'd think that colleagues weren't on the line, and they checked out, and they just sat there with their hands down, and they said, "Today, because a colleague didn't arrive, we're not going to work." That's just a strange argument for me, and I don't like it. I just don't do such factual fouls, and now that there have been things where you, the current coalition, were flowing water into your shoes when, for example, you needed to approve some of the mandates for foreign missions in time, we did not act tactically, but we behaved in the interests of the Czech Republic. And if even in other areas of security there can be controversy about whether the interest of the Czech Republic is not at risk, I think that these tactical things do not belong to the work of Members responsible Members!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jaroslav Holík's factual remark, and then a colleague, Grospič, who is waiting, continues. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are discussing a rather serious matter here, a constitutional lawsuit against the President of the Czech Republic. But I am very surprised that we are changing this serious subject to the greetings of our family members. Yes, let's change the name of this point to a panoptics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We are continuing the debate with the speech of Mr Stanislav Grospič, prepared by Miroslava Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I will freely follow up in this debate on the Senate proposal for a constitutional lawsuit with a dimension that concerns the relation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. I would like to point out that if the Constitutional Court were to rule on the action, then his decision cannot, in my view, be clearly expected to define some boundaries for the future President's actions and, therefore, that he would determine when the President committed a gross violation of the Constitution or any other part of the constitutional order, as some of my colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies seem to expect, and how we are constantly arguing about what we are actually deciding and whether we are going to move the dispute or not, and whether it is a dispute at all. It led me to this on Monday's discussion, which was led to the present action here in the House within a round table, where I was not present, but had the opportunity to get to know it quite in detail, and probably each of us received it in the form of a communication of the State Reconstruction, expressed views relating to the Constitutional Court's decision, respectively. to impose the penalty in question. Although some uncertainties were found in the discussion on Monday's round table regarding the automatic or optional nature of the penalty, it was also in fact pointed out that the Constitutional Court Act is not entirely in line with the Constitution. There has also been a problem on the part of the invited constitutional lawyers, who were Dr. Kudrna, Mr. Professor Wintr, and the opinion that some do not correspond to the Constitution's diction and support the diction of the Constitutional Court law. That's what I think is important. [[18.00 hours]] What's going on? The Constitution shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 says the last sentence states that the Constitutional Court may decide, on the basis of a constitutional action by the Senate, that the President of the Republic is losing the presidency and the capacity to regain it. Here I would like to emphasise the word'may', because the diction of Section 104 of the Constitutional Court Act governing the finding and its legal consequences as regards the constitutional action of the Senate against the President is completely different from the quoted wording of the Constitution. This provision no longer gives the Constitutional Court an option, but it clearly provides for a penalty, and it follows from that provision that if the Constitutional Court accepts the application and decides that, where appropriate, the President of the Republic has committed a gross breach of the Constitution or other part of the Constitutional Order and declares his decision in the form of a finding, the President of the Republic shall lose that presidency and the capacity to acquire it again. It follows from Article 104 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Constitutional Court Act cited. It is clear from this that the Constitutional Court does not decide whether the Presidential Office is to be lost or not to be re-established, but it takes place by law, and this does not correspond to the wording of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It is precisely to me that the Chamber of Deputies, its members, i.e. Members, are those who have to assess whether the Senate's action meets all the criteria to be referred to the Constitutional Court, and whether the facts mentioned therein are sufficient and relevant to prove the case by the processors. It doesn't change my opinion and my comments on the written lawsuit. Therefore, I cannot in any way identify myself in substance or in law with the fact that the House should not be in charge of the matter. The House, of course, decides. It was mentioned that the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Rychetský, also commented on the issue. So according to him, the president basically violated the Constitution, did so several times, it is publicly recorded. And it leads me to another consideration, namely that the President of the Constitutional Court did not, in effect, exclude the President from the decision on the President's action and whether he did not influence others, even the Constitutional Judge. Because in order to ask myself these questions, whether the Constitutional Court, in other words, has actually disqualified itself from deciding on a possible action. Since the Constitutional Court is not part of the general system of courts, however, by its rules and actions it should respect the fact that it decides either a constitutional judge as such or in a college or in the whole of plenary, but cannot individually communicate its opinion to the public and subject it to a certain presumption, albeit qualified in terms of profession. I think that we must respond to this on our own, we must take this into account when examining the Senate of the Czech Republic's action, which we are dealing with here today. But I think that is just another reason for us not to demonize the actions of the current President of the Republic, so that we can make a factual assessment of the actions of the previous presidents. In fact, there is no reason for the Chamber of Deputies to agree from my point of view with the action, as the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic puts it. That is why I think that we should not move it further simultaneously, but we should reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u77	Thank you, honourable Member. The next one in the debate is Mrs Němcová. Mr Klaus will sign up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Minister, fellow Members of the Senate, allow me to begin my speech with a basically factual remark which I could not make at a time when it would be worthwhile, because today's format of our negotiations was specific, that is to say, before a debate was opened, in which factual remarks could be made, there were about ten priority rights or a speech with a priority right that took a lot of time, there were a lot of things to respond to. I wanted to respond to some of them, but it was not possible to make a factual point at the time. So now I respond to something that was said between 10.20 and 10.40, it was a performance by Vice-President Tomio Okamura, who called our fellow parliamentary senator, Mr. Láska, an obscure rocketist. I think it will contribute to the political culture, to the relationship between us, to the relationship between our chamber and Parliament's upper chamber, if we respect any rules. Even Senator Goláň said in his opening words: pay attention to what we have written to you, what we ask you to say, but let us avoid this - he said so also in relation to himself - let us avoid personal attacks, please. Then, again, the debate was launched by this attack. I apologize to Mr. Senator Lásek for myself. I don't think it's supposed to be like this. We can share our views and we can have them very different, we may not agree with each other, but the social rules should help us to say our views at some level. Now, about what we have to discuss. The Senate as a whole has brought us a lawsuit that - who are you to it, and I have no doubt that most of us have read it, devoted itself to it - has 55 pages. It's complicated, from my point of view, I'm not a lawyer, it's a complicated legal text in some parts. I will add that this action has eight points in which the acts defined by the senators, members of the Upper Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, are considered important in order to describe in detail how President Miloš Zeman deals with the performance of his duties. At point A, which, of course, I was interested in, because I am a memorial to these things, I would like to make some specific remarks. It doesn't change the meaning of the point at all, but maybe it will help us to think about it more closely. Point A - I call it the administrative government of Jiří Rusnok and other friends of Miloš Zeman. Some data: On 17 June 2013, Prime Minister Petr Nečas' government resigns. Then there is a week of negotiations between the political parties within the Chamber of Deputies, between the parliamentary parties and the President of the Republic on which circumstances, how and in what composition a new government could arise. It's been about a week. Eight days after the demise of Petr Nečas' government, that is, 25. 6., appoints President Miloš Zeman Jiří Rusnok Prime Minister. There were some requests made by the President in the week of the negotiations. One of them was that he wished that the majority we had declared had been confirmed in writing by 101 signatures of Members who wanted to support the emergence of a new government on the concept that we had announced at the time. The President received this list of 101 signatures. He immediately responded by saying that it wasn't enough for him to need 101 signatures notarized. We told him that we would not do this because it contradicts all the conceivable rules of the relationship between Parliament's actions and the President of the Republic. So the result was that the President of the Republic was in a fictitious position to discuss whether a government could arise that he knew could lean on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and in the meantime he was already negotiating his government, which proves that it was a week, eight days after Petr Nečas' demise. [[18.10 hours]] So he named Jiří Rusnok. Shortly thereafter, he introduced the ministers of his government. They were all friends of Miloš Zeman from those days. Two of these friends sit in today's government - current Minister of Justice Marie Benešová and Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. They were in Miloš Zeman's government. I would like to add, from my point of view, certainly subjective, but I believe that this was the will of the President of the Republic, whom he wanted to circumvent Parliament. He knew that there was a majority here that could confirm a government that relied on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, which would allow the Chamber of Deputies to carry out its duties, that is, to control the government, as the Constitution imposes it. This principle was deliberately bypassed by the President. Thus, the government of his friends was formed, to whom he was obliged for some reason for the support he received in the presidential election. I will only add that on 7 August the Government of Jiří Rusnok did not gain the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, but remained with the Government until 29 January 2014. On August 7, 2013, she did not have confidence - and until January, until the end of January 2014, she remains with the government. In the meantime, there were parliamentary elections. These were held on 25 and 26 October 2013. The election was won by the Czech Social Democratic Party. Her leader was Bohuslav Sobotka. And what we all know was the Lanese coup, because the President did not wish to appoint Bohuslav Sobotka Prime Minister. That is why he created such an intra-party coup within his former party, chose the ones he wanted to join the government, and therefore all possible logical and solid negotiations about how the government would be formed and Jiří Rusnok ruled until January 2014, seven months after the resignation of the government of Petr Nečas, three months after the election. To that end, for your consideration, President Zeman, in a very difficult political situation at that time, needed eight days to lead the negotiations that led to the establishment of a government. Now I'm gonna put aside what it is. While - and that was his, 100% his government, he was blown out right away, there was nothing to think about. Eight days later, she was here on the table. While when the election was over and he had to respect the will of the voters, most of them in the Chamber of Deputies, it took him three months to allow the election winners to form a government and take office as Prime Minister. I mean Bohuslav Sobotka now. And by comparison, the negotiations, with the comedy we witnessed this summer, when the President needed two months to appeal and nominate one Minister of Culture, it's already speaking for itself. The Lana meeting, which is contained in point B of the constitutional lawsuit, I consider it to be a real effort by the President of the Republic to influence and background the Chamber of Deputies and decide on how he wants to have the government drawn up. In that I see a collision with the constitutional division of powers. Then there's point D - the government of Andrej Babiš without trust. Again some data. Parliamentary elections were held on 20 and 21 October 2017. The first government of Andrej Babiš was appointed on 13 December 2017. She didn't gain confidence, and she knew she wouldn't get confidence. And that happened on January 16, 2018. At that moment, Andrej Babiš was once again in charge of negotiation, assembly, and his first government ruled in demise, ruled here for five months, artificially maintained by the President of the Republic, who did not develop enough activity to enable a new, normal government to be formed, which could rely on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and did not even conduct such negotiations. From my point of view, there has been a clear restriction on the House's function. And I will add that, unlike in 2013, when the absurd demands on the necessary list of 101 signatures were notarized, there was no such request in the case of Andrej Babiš... or it was formally made, but then the president withdrew from him and said he didn't need it. This shows his different approach to individual actors on the political scene. And it can be concluded that the person who is sympathetic to him creates conditions so that he can function better on the political scene than the others. Point F - pressure on justice. I can't forgive myself for updating the findings that the senators are coming up with about the current developments. Because we are witnessing that, after the arrest of the Chapi hnízdo prosecution of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, the President of the Republic has been very vehemently calling for no one to comment on this, whether of the opposition, whether of the citizens, as it is extremely important to let law enforcement authorities take action, in turn, without any pressure, so that they can really decide freely and independently. We'll all sign it. That's a good saying. No one's gonna admit that he thought it might be any different. But the President himself has shown himself against these words in the light of his actions. After all, we have here a description of the pressure he put on justice at the moment when the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Dr. Josef Baxa, receives an offer from the President to lead the Constitutional Court for a matter in which the President is active when he closes his eyes and decides in favour of the President. This is an enormous violation of obligations and relationships that are supposed to rule between executive power, legislative power, etc. Here is the clear, unambiguous dramatic role of the President of the Republic, which destroys the independence of our justice and law enforcement agencies and puts direct pressure on them. There's a point G here, which is the exchange of culture. [[Minister]] I've touched him a little bit. And basically, I would say that most of us referred to him as one of those points that have the highest relevance, the success of being able to succeed in the Constitutional Court in the sense that there has actually been a violation of the Constitution. It's the exchange of the Minister of Culture. Let me give you two quotes. Constitutional lawyer Jan Kysela, quote from 18. 7. 2019, Lightning. I quote: "If you ask me about the particular case of Minister Staněk, since I think that the duty of the President of the Republic is unconditional and that he has not fulfilled it for more than six weeks, I have no doubt that the President of the Republic has been in violation of the Constitution for a number of weeks. I feel like he's violating her in a rough way because he's violating her consciously. A rule that violates is extremely important. So, from my point of view, a condition for the filing of a constitutional suit by the Senate, with the consent of the House, is fulfilled." Second quote. Constitutional lawyer Jan Wintr, 20. 7. 2019, TV Nova, TV News. I quote: "I believe that this is obviously a gross violation of the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly states that - the President meant - he is obliged to appeal the Minister on a proposal from the Prime Minister. It ignores the Constitution's provisions as if the police came to Lán tomorrow to arrest the President for abuse of the authority of an official, overlooking in the Constitution that the President has immunity. I think it's obviously a gross violation of the Constitution. And I believe that the Constitutional Court would decide that if the constitutional lawsuit was brought." That's the point that describes the events surrounding the exchange of the Minister of Culture. I don't think there's anything to say. Perhaps only what interested me in the introduction during the performances with priority rights, when Mrs Kateřina Valachová performed with the position of the ČSSD MEP, when - I do not have it exactly - but in the tapestry, each of you can find out exactly how she voted, but she said that the position of the ČSSD MEP is that there has been a violation of the Constitution at this point, i.e. the non-revocation of Minister Antonín Staněk, on that there is a consensus. So if I take this seriously, then the consensus of the senators, parts of the House and experts is expressed in the fact that the Constitution has been violated at this point and, as we have been warned at the outset, just one point in the action that may lead the Constitutional Court to carry out any verdict. And we are not the Constitutional Court, it has been repeated many times here, and it is important that the Constitutional Court gets this material into its hand and tells us where the limits really lie. [[18.20 hours]] In point H, there is a description of other partial acts between which each of us could assign some more of how we observe that the President of the Republic does or does not exercise his office. I will stop at one point, which I consider very important in connection with the 30th anniversary of regaining freedom and democracy in our country. It concerns that the President of the Republic refused to appoint some professors with reasons relating to their activities before 1989. He meant working with StB and joining the Communist Party. I'm sure I see this as a flaw, but I wonder why the President of the Republic, when he's upset about this, with the same attitude and consistently doesn't approach everyone. How come he's okay with the current Prime Minister who's exactly the same? How is it that he does not mind this defect with the President of the parliamentary party who supports this government? He is not a member of it, but he has made a written commitment to support it. It's the same flaw. There the President of the Republic does not mind, he considers these persons as the ones he wants to prefer, repeatedly saying that he will give Andrej Babiš an appointment at any time again, about the President of that unnamed political party, but we all know that I am talking about the KSČM and its President Vojtěch Filip, he has no doubt that he should be the one who will continue to pursue and hold this government. This incoherence is striking to me, and it shows that the President of the Republic is acting on a high purpose, not in the interest of what a democratic society needs, what needs the relationship of the power of legislative, executive and judicial power, but acts directly against it and destructs these relations. This could also be the conclusion of what I have noted here as the things I want to mention. I believe the Senate has done a good job. He doesn't have to succeed. This debate, which has been going on for many hours, shows that our views differ. The Constitutional Court can tell us - and if it says so, I will be very grateful - what we were wrong about, what we were right about, but no one but him can tell us. I therefore consider this work to be very valuable. I even think to myself, I would very much like this lawsuit to come to the Constitutional Court, because it would be a logical point behind the disputes that are being brewed in society, behind the considerations that we have among ourselves, because there would be some sort of solution to this matter. If this does not happen, the world will certainly not break down, but the valuableness of the material for me will remain in the fact that there will be some really precise, detailed description of how the head of state did in one historic phase and how dangerously it destroyed not only the constitutional order, but as a result the entire society, which - when I spoke about the 30th anniversary of its origin - was definitely going to do something other than to have to deal with whether the fundamental things, the first law of our country, the Constitution, and whether the one who is to observe it first, the head of state, are doing it or not doing it. I am very sorry that we have to conduct this, but from my point of view Miloš Zeman is really involved in the destruction of the Constitution and deliberately, purposefully, repeatedly and consistently acts to weaken the role of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u79	Thank you. Mr Černohorský cancels his apology, he is present. Senator Láska came forward with a point of fact. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u80	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We agreed that a colleague of Goláň will have the final word for our material, but I have one thing on my mind for which I have used this factual remark. I will now look to the right, and I would like to thank the speakers who have so far come from this part of the House, that may change in a moment, but those who have come so far. I am well aware of this - I was involved in the Senate negotiations - that many of you have a slightly different idea of what this action should look like, that you had a different idea, that you tried to enforce a different form of the action, yet at this point you were all prepared to respect the majority will of the Senate, and although I do not have to correspond to you all personally, you were able to find the words of support for it and you expressed respect for the upper chamber. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u81	Thank you. Mr Klaus will now speak in the debate, and President Kalousek will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u82	Colleagues, you have stolen my childhood, my dreams, and now you have stolen my entire afternoon of watching a full-scale performance that is different to people who don't like President Zeman, they have political struggles with him, and people who love him from the left side of the spectrum. [[Laughing in the hall, applause]] Our Trikolora movement does not want to participate in this debate and we will stick to things that matter. We will not support a constitutional suit against the President, and the following reasons lead us to do so: First, constitutional reasons. If the legislators wanted to, they would certainly write in the Constitution: the Prime Minister will appoint ministers or the President will appoint ministers within three days and so on. They didn't do it, they wrote it differently. This gave the presidents of the Czech Republic some room for their political activity, and as President Havel - for example, Minister Ruml was in remission about eight months from May to November - so President Klaus took advantage of this opportunity. I tušit President Klaus has refused to call off or reconstruct Grossův' government for US-DEU ministers. It made it impossible to reconstruct and the government had fallen in the meantime. I am not saying that the legislators at the time wrote the Constitution wrong or vaguely when the Federation broke up. I'm just reminding you that this is a human construct, not an intervention of providence. If we ask ourselves whether current President Zeman behaves fatally differently than both of his predecessors, our opinion here is that he does, that he behaves a little differently, but we think that this is mainly because he has a slightly different mandate. Of course, the millions of votes of direct voters strengthen him for such distrust of Parliament and the Senate. And here I must say, unfortunately, the same populists who are screaming the most about insurrection today are those who have pushed through this significant change, the President's direct election, without clearly defining or limiting the President's powers. It is mainly the ČSSD, the Civil Democratic Party and others. [[18.30 hours]] Well, that's an important point. When political changes are made for populist reasons, short-term - then they thought that someone else would be president and that the citizens would appreciate their move in some way terribly significantly - it usually doesn't bring much good to society. But it doesn't do any good to those political subjects, either, because the president is unexpectedly instead of their Pithart and their associates. has become completely someone else and their own electoral support has fallen four or three times in some cases. So now they've seen a lot of people at the demonstration. It brings back as if this political solution, and once again it will bring nothing to anyone, not even to them. Then there's the merit of things, and that's the inaction of appeal - Staněk, Šmarda and so on. Here I have to say, if we're honest, we can also consider suing ourselves. Because, for example, the law obliges us to discuss the report on Czech Television, and as I watch here, the report for 2016 is not yet discussed. And surely the legislator did not originally mean that we would be discussing the report in 76 years. Well, we do that, because some political parties have some political intentions, they don't want to discuss the report to make television something and so on. And that's why they drag it out and delay it. And surely we would all be very careful if someone were to sue us because we would be shouting: we are a democratic phenomenon chosen by people and we will determine when we will discuss what report, and no one can tell us anything! In this, I must say, as if the president is in the same position. He is also a phenomenon of the political scene mentioned in the Constitution, and he is also probably allergic to being told something. That's all I've said so far, but it's irrelevant. Our main argument about why Trikolóra will not join the constitutional lawsuit is this: We believe the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which begins with the words "all power comes from the people," that is, from the elections. Whether President Zeman is doing something good or bad, that's what the people are here to decide in universal democratic elections, not to be decided by judges, prosecutors, police officers and others, because of various coups, courts, police and, for example, chunts, that's what we know from Latin America, but it's not what we swear to. So we're very critical, or I personally don't like a lot of action, including the current President, but it's not a matter that should be discussed in a constitutional suit against the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u83	Thank you. From 18.30 to the end of the meeting, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes from today's meeting, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes from today's meeting from 18.45 to 19 due to illness. [[Mr. Miroslav Kalousek comes to the speaker's table.]] I apologise, Mr President, in the meantime, a factual point has yet to be made. Mr Martin Kupka will take precedence in this case. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u84	I think it is clear that this is not, as has been said, about who does and who does not like President Zeman. We have put forward a number of clear arguments here, we have referred to the views of relevant constitutional lawyers when there is a violation or at least to circumvention of the Constitution. It is also clear, and it is one of the basic democratic principles, that we have all been given our power from the decision of the people of their elections to surrender it once the mandate is fulfilled. And of course, we may make mistakes in that period, or we may even embezzle this fundamental principle. And then it is quite appropriate that, if - naturally, it is not for politicians to judge it, but for those who are called upon to do so, as a Constitutional Court, so that they then consider such missteps. There is nothing wrong with that; there is nothing wrong with democratic principles. On the contrary, this has to do with democratic principles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u85	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák cancels his apology, he is present. President Kalousek has the floor, Mr Feri will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everything has been said about the matter. Unfortunately, I also believe that more than should have been said. Unfortunately, I am already a memoir, so I can say with certainty that in the 23 years of the Senate's existence, no Members of the Chamber of Deputies happened to be exposed in the upper chamber to such a shower of insults and as many silly defensive statements as were made today at the address of our colleagues who came to present this material. As a member of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to express my deep regret on this, and I would like to assure you, Senator Láska and honourable Senator Golán, of my respect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u87	Thank you. Mr Feri, who is currently the last member of the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u88	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I no longer want to respond to what has been said here, but I would just like to make a proposal, and I would like it to be noted that we should vote by name. What we are going to vote on now is, in terms of constitutional law, one of the most important votes in the state. It has a similar relevance to the vote on government trust. And that's ex lege by name, and I think we should maintain the same form. So I suggest we vote on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've noted your proposal. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u90	Thank you for the floor. With the opinion of our club and our political party, President Fiala and Mrs Němcová spoke about the constitutional action. I just want to make a statement for our club on how to vote. We will not support a secret vote or a vote by name. We are in favour of voting publicly. The debate was public, we are not ashamed of our opinion. When we vote for a normal voting device, I am sure that not only can everyone look up the website, as we voted, but many media, many journalists will publish the result of the vote. Personally, I don't see the difference between a public vote and a name vote. Yes, we have prescribed cases in the Rules of Procedure and situations where the law requires a vote on names only for explanations. We will support the public vote in the standard way. Anyone who wants to, can check or find out how the members of our MP club or other MPs voted. So much for explaining the proposals made by colleagues from both KDU and TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u91	Thank you. Is there any interest in speaking in the general debate? There is no interest, so I am ending the general debate. We will have a detailed debate, but if there is an interest in the final words after the general debate, I will give the floor to Senator Tomáš Goláň. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u92	Mr President, honourable Members, I have listened with great interest to all the speeches. I would like to respond to all in one way. There's been a lot said, a lot of attacks. And there were a lot of attacks on the right-wing parties sitting on the right-hand side that they made something up and that it was some kind of political struggle. The only one who invented it was me. I said that, after the President put pressure on doktor Baxa's former Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, I would initiate a debate in the Senate about bringing a lawsuit - I took it wrong - for treason against the President. I've been warned that treason cannot be used for this act, so the classification has gone to gross violation of the Constitution. I'm not a fan of any party. And Mr Faltýnek said he knew where the wind was coming from because I said I was protecting social democracy in particular. A lot of people know that I wrote about two years ago that I wish social democracy to end up in the junkyard of history, so I don't think that's the main reason why I initiated this lawsuit. This lawsuit isn't based on Miloš Zeman as a person. It is guided by the way in which it carries out its presidency. [[18.40 hours]] This lawsuit is supposed to protect future governments. Let's look at the future. In three and a half years, he'll be the new president. This president may try even harder to incline the parliamentary system to the presidential system, as Miloš Zeman is leaning today. And know that it can be parties to YES, ČSSD and others that support the government today, which will be limited by this president of bits, and will be violated by the Constitution in their breach. And believe me, if I'm a senator, I'm gonna press charges like this against the President of the Republic on your behalf. You attacked all those right-wing parties completely unjustly. I was the one who convinced them in the Senate that something needed to be done. Why? Because I have three sons and I have a future. I am unable to see only at the end of my mandate, which ends next autumn. I'm able to see much further. And I want to tell you that you should see a lot further, too, because it affects all of us. Recently, a friend of mine, a college student, said to me, "Well, the power you have right now, that's adrenaline, isn't it? - I didn't understand what he was saying to me. Too much responsibility for me. Sometimes it's awful for me not to make the wrong decision. I'm studying all the laws to vote well on them. To me, power is just a responsibility. And responsibility is capable of abducting those who are not afraid. But here we saw the attacks of people who were afraid. Who's attacking? Who's screaming? Who's kicking? The one who's afraid. And some of them were scared. In doing so, I said the whole debate - let's try to talk about it factually, discuss the lawsuit, discuss individual points and discuss what the Senate did right and what he did wrong. The Senate couldn't do the lawsuit any other way. Nobody's sued here. Never. There's no precedent, there's no pattern, there's nothing the Senate could have taken. The Senate tried with the best knowledge and conscience to develop something that would be acceptable to you and that would serve here as a kind of role model for the future. In this regard, I think the Senate has done an excellent job and did not deserve the attacks that have been made on it. I think everyone should vote according to their best knowledge and conscience. But if I have criticized some of the attacks here, I must say that even on the part of the defendants of the lawsuit, there have been excellent speeches, such as Mrs Valachová - I very much appreciate him because this has been an expert discussion, even by Mrs Gajdůškovášková, who said why she will not vote, without drawing on politics and any references to purposefulness and attacking opposition or senators. Finally, I ask everyone to think about when we will have a similar opportunity to set something up for the future. I think this is a good time. And on this basis, I beg all of you to support this suit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u93	That was Senator Golán's final word. The rapporteur, Mrs Ožanová, will also speak with the final word after the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u94	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur's task is rather a summary. I would merely recapitulate that there were both reasons to support the granting of consent to the lawsuit and reasons not to support the granting of consent to the lawsuit. I would remind you that the Constitutional Committee did not comment on this matter, only recommended that the matter be discussed publicly. I think it is up to us to decide on our own based on what we have heard, how we are going to vote. Furthermore, there have been proposals for a way of voting. First, the motion for a vote was made by a secret vote, then by names, and then President Stanjura leaned on us to vote on a standard basis. It's up to us what choice we choose. I will not comment more on this matter, nor will I recommend or recommend how Members should vote. I'll leave it to all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u95	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am still opening up a detailed debate. There is no report in the detailed debate, and I am ending the debate in detail. Interest in the final words after a detailed debate, I suppose, is not. I note that Mr Špičák apologizes from 18:00 until the end of the day, on the contrary, Mr Bžoch cancels his apology, he is present. As the rapporteur has told us, there have been two proposals for voting. I note that Article 70 (2) of the EC Treaty does not apply to the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 does not address the way in which The two proposals that have been made are the proposal by Mr Čižinský for a secret vote, Mr Feri's proposal for a name vote. We must deal with both of these proposals by voting. I've summoned Members and Members to the O.R. I see there's a request for a check-out, I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. [[It's happening.]] We are now ready for the vote. We will now vote on the proposal for a secret vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 210, registered by 128 Members, for 2, against 118. The motion was not accepted. The second proposal, which we are now going to deal with by vote, is a proposal for us to vote by name. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 211, registered by 128 Members, for 18, against 93. The motion was not accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote. President Bartošek is here with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Because I see that, above all, a number of Members are missing in the ranks of the government coalition, I suppose they haven't come to the vote yet, so I'm gonna ask you to... [[A number of Members are calling no!]] Eight minutes breaks, eight minutes, so that, above all, government MPs can arrive in their benches and express their will by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u97	President Bartošek has the right to request a recess for the meeting of the KDU-ČSL. It is a tradition in this House that the President will immediately accept such requests. That's what I do. We'll continue the negotiations in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-004-256.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 18.55 p.m., the time for a break for the KDU-ČSL meeting has ended and we will return to our vote. At this point, I will ask you to remain calm, because I will make a motion for a resolution that we will vote on. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to bring a constitutional action against the President of the Republic, Miloš Zeman, to the Constitutional Court for gross violations of the Constitution or other parts of constitutional order under Art. 65 Constitutions of the Czech Republic, according to the House press 561/0." We have already set the necessary number of votes, which in this case is 120. I'm hearing your application for check-out again. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. I have tabled the motion for a resolution, the necessary number of votes is set, nothing prevents me from starting the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 212, registered by 130 Members, for 58, against 62. I note that the motion for a resolution has not been approved. I thank the senators and the rapporteur. I am done discussing this point and ending today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good night.
