ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German Press 581/ - First Reading The President of the club YES 2011 Faltýnek applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask for a technical break of five minutes. I'm in contact with Minister Vojtěch. He's on his way. He should be here in three minutes, so please take a five-minute break. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u3	Thank you. At the request of the ANO 2011 club, I am declaring a five-minute break. We'll continue at 9:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u4	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, it is 9:30 a.m., we will continue the adjourned negotiations. [[Noise and restlessness in the Chamber.]] I'm gonna ask you all to take your seats in the hall, and I'm gonna ask you to calm down. One more time: it's 9:30! I'm asking all the debaters who, if necessary, haven't finished their conversation to go to the lobby. I don't want to name it, I don't want to show it. They can't even hear me, the ones I'm talking to. [[The noise persists, the bell is ringing.]] Well, thank you. And the Minister is also present, so, under the authority of the Government, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am very sorry for the delay and allow me to introduce to you the amendment to the Act on Medicines approved by the Government at its meeting on 26 August this year. The aim is to ensure greater availability of medicinal products relevant for the provision of health services in the Czech Republic, on two basic levels. The key part of this proposal is the incorporation of the so-called allergenic system to ensure orders and supplies of paid medicinal products prescribed for electronic recipes that are not available on the normal distribution network. This allergenic system will be established and operated by the marketing authorisation holder, i.e. the manufacturer of the medicinal product in question. The marketing authorisation holders of the medicinal product covered will be required to supply their medicinal product to the pharmacy chosen by the patient for the delivery of their medicinal product within the prescribed time limit, provided that the pharmacy cannot order the medicinal product on the normal distribution network. That means the drug is in distribution, but the pharmacy cannot access it in the standard form. In the case of an order via an allergenic system, it is ensured that the medicinal products delivered to the pharmacy are used only for dispensing to a given patient who came with his electronic prescription to the appropriate pharmacy. Another aspect of the adaptation introduced by this proposal is the introduction of measures to ensure that medicinal products placed on the Czech market are preferably used for patients in the Czech Republic and can be exported abroad only if this does not jeopardise the availability of the medicinal product on the Czech market in the amount appropriate to the needs of patients in the Czech Republic. It is a regulation of the so-called unsolicited and undesirable drug reexports, where we know that, given that drugs in the Czech Republic are significantly cheaper than other countries, the situation currently becomes such that the manufacturer will deliver the medicine to the Czech market, the distributor will take it away from it, but instead of the distributor, primarily in the case of distributors, it will deliver the medicine to the Czech pharmacy for Czech patients, so it will take it abroad, Germany, Denmark and the like, where it will get the difference between the Czech price and the price, for example German. Often the difference is very pronounced. This means it is simply money earned, very easily, but at the expense of Czech patients. So it is a business that I do not think the Czech Republic should support, and it is one of the measures that will enable the State Institute for Drug Control and the Ministry of Health to obtain effective control and functional tools to protect the Czech market for medicinal products, thus helping to prevent this unwanted distribution of medicinal products beyond the Czech Republic to ensure the availability of such medicinal products for patients in our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support this proposal, which aims to ensure and improve the availability of medicinal products for patients in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u6	I thank you, Minister, and I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u7	Thank you, Mr President and Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, the Minister has presented his government bill. It is, yes, primarily a proposal for an allergenic system. And I must say that, as rapporteur, I have a very difficult role to play in this area, because, as has already been put forward and, as we all seem to see, above all, from the Committee on Health, this area is very much discussed and we see many problems in this area, which are also popping up in the previous proposals. Now, I don't know if I'm in the position of rapporteur right now, but I'm gonna try to stay on this plane. I believe that this proposal, as it is submitted and proposed, needs to be discussed even more deeply, and that is why, at least, and I know that there will also be proposals for rejection at first reading today, and therefore, as rapporteur, I will propose - and, of course, I must, with the agreement of the Minister, but I will be glad if he gives the consent - that the debate, if the motion for rejection is not accepted, is indeed extended by 30 days, that is to say 90 days, because it is at least a small part of the adequacy of this proposal. I really believe that those areas that are proposed in this law and which we also have argued that they are not more or less coming out exactly as the Ministry of Health interprets, there is still a fundamental need to be discussed. That means, I am convinced, and here it will be mentioned in the other speeches that I would like this bill to be extended by its committee hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u8	Thank you. I have marked a motion to extend the deadline for second reading. And I open a general debate and ask who is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr. Mr. Kupka from the post. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u9	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have a number of very serious responses, particularly from pharmacists in small pharmacies in the outermost regions of the Czech Republic, who are already drawing attention to the lack and inaccessibility of some often and very common medicines, and are afraid that, as it is proposed, the erectile system could, as a result, deepen the problem. They see the effort behind it and the particular strings that could record it. In this case, I would therefore like to propose that the proposal be re-negotiated, and in the event that this proposal fails, I would like to propose that the next meeting be interrupted, so that it is possible to actually have a wider discussion with the pharmacy chamber and with all the other professional groups on how to adjust it, so that the regulation really fulfils the objective of not turning itself against the translator himself, because I do not expect the Ministry of Health to be following the proposal by monitoring the availability of medicines to Czech patients across the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u10	Thank you. After the general debate, therefore, we will vote on the proposal for repayment and, in the event that it is not successful, we will vote on the procedural proposal for interruption of the item. And you, Mr. Ambassador, said until the next meeting? [[Yes.]] Until the next meeting. There. That's where we're clear. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone. Minister, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u11	Thank you for the floor. I will comment on what has been said. Our proposal is nothing out of the blue, it's nothing new. In this respect, we were inspired in Slovakia. In Slovakia, the proposal was passed a few years ago and repeatedly by Slovak colleagues, including the Minister of Health, and repeated it recently at a meeting of Health Ministers V4 in Prague, repeated it at a meeting of the governments of the Czech Republic, when I asked her about the experience of this regulation in Slovakia, so she said clearly positive. These measures clearly led to higher availability of medicines. So we have to figure out whether we want a higher availability of drugs or we don't want to deal with it. These are just two planes. I'm not opposed to having a deeper discussion. I'm not even resisting an extension of the time limit. But saying that this proposal will lead to a lower availability of medicines is simply not true. On the contrary, these border pharmacies often don't get to pharmacies, because distributors only supply them to several pharmacies, different DTP models are set up and so on. The law, as we propose, means that a patient who comes to any pharmacy in the Czech Republic, whether it is in the center of Prague or somewhere in the Krkonoše Mountains and so on, with his electronic recipe, and the medicine will otherwise be available in the distribution network, so the drug will get to it. And that's the basic difference from the current state. At the same time, for the first time in history, the proposal gives clear responsibility to drug manufacturers for the availability of medicines in the Czech Republic and for ensuring that, in the event of a failure of the drug, the supply of the drug to the Czech Republic is restored within a maximum period of 120 days. There's no such deadline today. That means today's situation is that if there's a drop in the drug, the blackout might take a year, and we can't impose any sanctions on anybody, certainly not on the manufacturer, not at all on the distributor. For the first time in history, the proposal gives clear responsibility to the manufacturer for the availability of medicines in the Czech Republic. And there are quite significant sanctions. There are currently no such ones. So really, if we want to solve this problem really, this proposal brings the solution. Of course, the proposal does not address all the availability of medicines, because we know that in a number of cases, perhaps today most of the cases of non-accessibility are due to failures in production, when the production of drugs has now moved to Asia, China, India, where large pharmaceutical companies have their factories. There production is very concentrated often for the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, we are seeing more and more failures in production, when the production will fail, is poorly planned and so on, and the cure will not be delivered to the Czech Republic, but often to Europe. We see this in other countries, too, that the number of reported lack of drugs is rising sharply in France. I've been to Denmark recently, where there's the same problem. So it's just something we have to fight, but on a different level. This is really for the whole of the European Union, the whole of the European Commission, to take some measures to move the production of drugs back to Europe from Asia. But of course we are not able to solve this at the level of the Czech Republic. What we are able to solve is to give clear responsibility, to regulate unwanted exports of drugs, which is just a business for several selected subjects, which instead of supplying drugs to Czech patients, so they will take them abroad, get money for it, and medicines are not available to Czech patients. It's three to five billion a year. That's big money. I understand a lot of people are upset about touching that money. But I am convinced that we should think, in particular, that the medicines will be available for Czech patients, not that the medicines will be balanced for German patients and so on. And let us realize that this is actually happening today, and maybe this will happen more, because in the Czech Republic, medicines are, in principle, cheaper often than other countries. We know that in Germany, for example, medicines are one of the most expensive in the European Union. And the motivation to export drugs abroad is great. This law clearly sets this regulation to the detriment of those who export but for the benefit of Czech patients. So I am not resisting any discussion within the committee, but saying that this law will lead to some higher inaccessibility of medicines and the like is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u12	Thank you. Your speech raised a point of fact - Mr Jiří Běhounek. I forgot to mention that Mr. Běhounek has been excused and cancels his apology and is already present. That's how he reminded me. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, I greet you all. I'm glad I made it. I am not often in conflict with the Minister, but in this case I must fundamentally disagree with him, because he here claims that he has inspired himself in Slovakia. But I guess they don't read the Slovak law enough. In the Slovak Liek Act, the obligation of the manufacturer to deliver drugs to distributors, to all distributors, and only after the situation that the medicines are not available to all distributors, pharmacies may contact the manufacturer and have to supply the material or the medicine within two working days. And that is a different principle than that set out in this law. And if the Ministry really wants to introduce an allergenic system, then in this form it is completely unacceptable for us. And I think this discussion is going to be a lot harder than we imagine. I point out that one thing is wishing, and the other thing is reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u14	Thank you. Mr Pawlas is currently on the table for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u15	Mr President, colleagues, I would also like to say a few words about this, because I do not agree with the Minister's view, and I think that his amendment on medicines on many of the issues and arguments that have been raised here is not true. I think that this amendment is abolished by the obligation of distributors to deliver the drug within two working days to the pharmacies. This will put the pharmacy in a situation where it does not have the legal and practical enforceable right to supply the medicine in the public interest for its patients. She will be so entirely reliant on the manufacturer. Furthermore, I think that the supply of drugs to pharmacies is left to the manufacturer's decision. To imagine I downloaded the general terms and conditions of one drug manufacturer and there is clearly stated in point 1.1 that the manufacturer is subject only to these terms and conditions and not to the Drug Act, and also to paragraph 2.3 - the manufacturer selected by the monopoly distributor does not commit himself to any supply of drugs to the pharmacy. The manufacturer thus has the right to determine to whom and how many items he supplies or does not supply. A trade agreement or cartel between a manufacturer and a monopoly distributor with its chain of pharmacies is therefore preferred. If the pharmacy has drugs in stock, it is a crucial competitive advantage, but only for chain pharmacies. Patients in small towns and villages will not have their medications in pharmacies because these pharmacies are not really linked to the distributor, so they are not in stock. Furthermore, a monopoly distributor will have a competitive advantage because it will buy out a large number of medicines from a business point of view and supply them to its pharmacies and no one else will get to them. This would be a further deterioration of the economic situation of small pharmacies and a threat to patients in the availability of medicines. Furthermore, this amendment is behind the edge of a valid competition law. But be careful. If the so-called Ergent System is approved and implemented in the Drug Act, it is de facto legalized by the current practice of monopoly distribution and pharmacy will lose the last chance to defend itself against the ÚOHS and the general courts of the Czech Republic. This is very dangerous from the point of view of citizens. They'll never be able to pick up a drug in their pharmacy again. [[9.50 hours]] Furthermore, I think that the amendment does not clearly state who is responsible and according to what assessment criteria the particular drug will be selected and included in the so-called. an allergenic system. This amendment will clearly make the enforcement of the Public Procurement Act worse for the supply of medicines to hospitals. The manufacturer and his designated monopoly distributor have no reason to participate in public tenders, and the hospital is thus completely dependent on the manufacturer to supply the drug. There is no competitive environment and suppliers of medicines. With regard to the limitation of the report, so-called. the limitation of the report is resolved in previous amendments to the Act on Medicinal Products. This is not a reason for the re-updating of the Act on Medicines. The current law works well at the point of limitation of reexport, see the list of bans of reexport from the Czech Republic from 2017 to 2019. Drug trafficking abroad is selectively restricted. The European Commission has not initiated proceedings with the Czech Republic on the incompatibility of this law with the law and the functioning of the single market principle within the EU since December 2017. Clear proof that the restriction so called. the free movement of goods is selectively imposed in the present law only on individual medicines and this restriction on the free movement of goods is not limited only to the decision of the manufacturer. The amendment aims to address the lack of medicines, but according to the latest data of the State Institute for Drug Control, 69 percent of all non-available drugs in the Czech Republic are due to a failure directly during the production process, which cannot be removed by any legal measure. These are failures on production lines, lack of active substance, failure on packaging, labelling, etc. This is not a strong argument for defending this amendment, but it is a fundamental argument for rejection, because this cannot be addressed at the level of the law. Furthermore, and this has already been said by colleague Běhounek, it is not true that there is a similar allergy system in Slovakia. As he has already mentioned, the Liek Act is there and the manufacturer has a duty to supply the medicines to all distributors and only after the situation has arisen that the pharmacy cannot obtain the medicine for all distributors must contact the manufacturer and he has an obligation to deliver the supplies within two working days. This is a completely different situation than that proposed by us. In some countries it is legally guaranteed and legally enforced to deliver drugs to pharmacies for patients: Slovakia, Hungary, Germany, Belgium. As of 1 December, the last amendment to the Act on Medicines approved in September of this year - the supply of medicines to pharmacies in the public interest - applies. It actually deals in practice with the uniform and smooth supply of medicines to pharmacies, including rights and obligations for all entities. So, since December, the monopoly on drug supplies has ended. I'm joining the motion, and I'm also making a motion to interrupt this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u16	Thank you. So are you joining Mr Kupka's proposal? That is, after the vote on the return of the appellant. I'll read a few apologies. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková apologizes for today's meeting since 11.30 for work reasons. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda apologizes between 9 and 12 o'clock for work reasons. Ondřej Benešík apologizes within 10 hours without giving any reason. Mr Richter apologizes for the whole of today's day for working reasons. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Between 9 and 12 o'clock, Mr František Kopřiva apologizes for his work. Mr Petr Třešňák apologizes for health reasons throughout today. Mrs Hyťhová apologizes between 9 and 11 for health reasons. At this point, Mr Pávek is from the point of entry into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good morning, dear colleagues. I would like to support the debate on the electrified system compared to the previous speakers. I believe that what the law contains in the title and what it declares as its objective is really desirable in terms of the availability of medicines for end-users, i.e. patients. I am not sure, of course, whether the provisions contained in the law should be passed in this form. I'm sure you don't. I'm sure they can't pass. It is clear that three very strong interest groups come across each other, whether they are manufacturers, they are distributors and, last but not least, pharmacists, all will be covered by interest in the patient. I think most of them aren't entirely at heart, it's just a ruthless business with huge billions spinning around. It is clear that these issues will be discussed. The previous contribution by you, Mr President, by Mr Pawlas, is an example of this when scaring patients and pharmacists is a good habit of discussing such challenging topics. So for us as starosta, we will support the release of this law at first reading. If the motion to postpone for the next meeting is tabled or voted, we will support it. If the proposal to extend the time limit is put to the vote, we will support it because it is clear to me that this issue will cause a great storm in a glass of water. It is clear to me that interest groups will do everything in their power to find among us supporters of one or the other solutions, and I would advocate that at the end of the day the patient actually wins, i.e. The user of medicines to ensure availability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u18	Thank you. One more apology: Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologises within 11 hours for work reasons. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u19	Good morning, Mr President, Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me briefly comment on the amendment to the Act on Medicines, House Press 581, for the KDU-ČSL club. KDU-ČSL sees as a fundamental problem the growing lack of drugs not only in pharmacies, but also in hospitals and from this point of view the Ministry's efforts to solve this problem and I can say that we also support it. Unfortunately submitted by the House press 581 according to our proposal, the objective which is correct, i.e. to take all precautions to ensure that the patient gets the necessary medicine at the right time and in the right place, unfortunately, the aim presented by the House press does not meet. On the other hand, we do not want to question the Minister's and his team's efforts to address the problem, so we will not propose at this stage the rejection of this press, but, as has been said here from the mouth of my previous speakers, this proposal still needs to be discussed very, very much, especially in the Health Committee. This means that we will definitely support the extension of the deadline to discuss this bill and we will also support the interruption, because we think that it is not really discussed in the professional public, and only those emails that we received from yesterday, when this press was put on priority today, is really a lot. I would like to make a brief comment on some of the aspects that have been raised here. The minister here said he was inspired by a similar legal arrangement in Slovakia. Here I will follow the words of my honored colleague Mr. Governor Jiří Běhounek. When two do the same thing, it's not the same thing. I am convinced that, as it is proposed in the Houses of the Press 581, this cannot be achieved by the purpose that is being announced. That means, let's talk about the parameters of this proposal, let's talk about what we're really able to do to make sure that the drugs are in the pharmacies where the patient can pick them up, but to be in the hospital's medical facilities, that is, we don't have to deal with the lack of some vital medicines in our hospitals. And the fact that there are several important players on the market who want to talk about it and who will try to influence us, MEPs, to protect their market in relatively sometimes even rude ways, is obvious. That's every time there's an amendment to the Drug Act, these players will always talk into it. But we should be talking about the patient. That means that the patient really gets the medication in time and in the place where he needs it. [[10.00 hours]] Let us not underestimate this problem. There is indeed a need to find legislation that would limit at least some of the factors that affect the lack of medicinal products. And I appreciate the Minister's mention that we are unable to influence some of these factors. We are not really going to be able to treat that by legislative means that there are more and more production failures today. But if the medicinal product is only here in a limited amount, then we should ensure that it is distributed fairly between distributors and that it gets to the patients in a regional way, so that it is not just a chain pharmacies issue and that it is not just a matter of some larger medical facilities. The patient has the right to get the medicine where he needs it. That means, even in the last pharmacy that's somewhere in a remote town. The KDU-ČSL Club supports efforts to improve the state of distribution of drugs, especially those in short supply, but we consider the implementation that is proposed to be inadequate, debatable and support those proposals that will be directed towards a wider discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I ask whether there is still interest - the rapporteur wants to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u21	Thank you for the floor. I am acting more or less only to reiterate my proposal for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 90 days. And I might still like to comment on the previous debate. We knew when the Ministry of Health declared that it would submit this proposal that these conflicts would occur in opinion, professional, etc. And it just shows exactly what actually a significant problem area within drugs is and how many currents in this area and their efforts and other things that affect it are. I think we should all be aware of that in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u22	Thank you, rapporteur. I commend you for bringing this up in the debate. That's the way it's supposed to be. And I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u23	Thank you for the floor. I'm certainly not resisting any discussion. On the other hand, let us be quite frank, this law, its basic principles are being discussed for about a year. And there is really a professional debate going on, but it is clear that we simply cannot agree with some. And we have to say to ourselves, is this what we want - and this is what Mr. Kaňkovský said - so that the distributor has the cure? Or do we want the patient to have it? There are two different things. [[Noise in the hall.]] I don't think we should be here to support the business of distributors. We're here to promote the availability of medicines for patients. And these are two fundamental differences. Because not all distributors mean the good of patients and they really want to deliver the medicine for Czech patients. We have the data. We know that a number of distributors will take most of what they get from the manufacturer. And if this is not a problem, then how is it that in the last four quartels the volume of drug reexport from the Czech Republic is repeatedly increasing? That's what the data is for. The volume of returns is increasing, not decreasing. It is precisely because the prices of drugs are more pronounced than abroad and that some distributors would rather deliver drugs than deliver them to Czech pharmacies. That's just the way it is. That's pretty straightforward. And for the first time - and there is no truth in what has been said, I think, Mr Pawlas, that he is not here, there will be no obligation. On the contrary, the law for the first time gives a clear obligation to manufacturers to provide a cure for Czech patients under a multimillion-dollar penalty within a maximum of two working days to any pharmacy in the Czech Republic. Not as it is today, so the manufacturer goes on to supply the distributor and distributor either deliver the drug to the pharmacy or simply deliver it. And that today's re-export work? Okay, first of all, that wouldn't have grown in time, and it really doesn't work today. She's toothless because the State Institute for Drug Control, if she wants to deal with reexports, she always solves them ex post. He doesn't solve them until the cure's no longer available. Not a priori to be banned from exporting the drug in advance, but when they know the drug is unavailable, they'll forbid a reexport. [[tho]] And I don't think that's simply an effective treatment for the cure. This is a good arrangement for exporters, but not for Czech patients. So we should be aware of what's going on here. So whether it's about supporting some business or whether it's about the availability of drugs. And that law really solves the availability of pharmaceuticals. I don't have a problem discussing details. Definitely not. We do not resist it, I am also prepared to support an extension for 90 days in committee discussions, it is certainly no problem, but I simply cannot accept the interpretation and interpretation of the law. And I repeat, for example, today there is no time limit in the law for which the drug may actually be in the blackout. Although it is the failure in production, as Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský also says, which we cannot solve by standard legislation, but for the first time we give a maximum period of 120 days in the sum of the year when the drug may be in the blackout. That means we're pushing manufacturers to re-create the drug. And today there is no deadline. Again, today, if there's a breakdown in production and it takes a year, a year and a half, the drug will be in the blackout, and there's nothing we can do about it, and we're unable to affect the manufacturer in any way. Today, there's a maximum period of 120 days in total per year, and if he doesn't comply with this, the manufacturer will get a penalty from the State Institute for Drug Control. So I am convinced that the proposal in its entirety actually addresses the availability of medicines for patients throughout the Czech Republic. We can talk about details, we can talk about hospital medications and the like, I don't have a problem with that, but let's not say that this proposal doesn't solve it, it doesn't contain something that's really in the law, and let's not say that there's a regulation of the report when we know that reporters are increasing over time and that there's just billions in it. Yeah, it's a good business, I'm not buying it, I get it, but I'm here for the patients. I'm here to make medicine available to Czech patients. And I believe that you will support this proposal, too, because you care about the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-004-023.u24	Good morning, honourable Members, that was the final word of the Minister of Health. I'm still asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. It's not like that. I'm done, then. [[general debate]] After the general debate, I cannot make a factual point and we will vote on the proposals. The first proposal is the proposal to return the proposal submitted for completion, as it was made by Mr Kupka. That's what we're gonna decide in the '90s vote. I've checked you all out, I'm gonna go on and I'm gonna wait for the number of entries to settle... We shall decide in the vote number 90 on the application for repayment to the applicant for completion. I've started voting number 90. I said, who's in favor of returning? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 90. Of the present 154 for 45, against 49. The motion was denied. [[10.10 hours]] We will therefore consider the proposal to suspend this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. until the 40th meeting, unless there is an extraordinary one in the meantime, in the 91 vote that I launched. I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting the next meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 91, present 157, for 89, versus 57. The proposal has been adopted and, therefore, without discussing the decision on committees, I am interrupting this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue with the point
