ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended /house print 367/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. Please take the floor, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u2	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. First of all, let me state that the Regional Development Support Act regulates, inter alia, the drawing of European funds and the coordination of cohesion policy under the conditions of the Czech Republic. I add that, however, European legislation is crucial for setting up the framework for drawing up European Union funds, especially the package of directly applicable European Union facilities. Section 18 of this Act, the Act in force, regulates the functioning of the advisory body of the Government, the so-called Council for European Structural and Investment Funds. Its main purpose is to pre-negotiate selected questions relating to the drawing of European funds so that it is no longer necessary to engage in some detailed or technical discussions during the official government meeting and the adoption of decisions. The law in force, for example, discusses the areas discussed by the Council. This is, for example, the consistency of the implementation of programmes with the objectives of the Partnership Agreement and the link to strategic documents. Furthermore, the Board is discussing systemic measures for the effective implementation of cohesion policy and the allocation of funds between operational programmes. The Council may propose amendments to this division to the Government, which the Government subsequently approves. So the Council really only advises; only the government has decision-making power as an executive body. The valid wording of the Act provides for the Prime Minister to chair the Council and to represent the Minister for Regional Development in the event of his absence. The Prime Minister does not take part in these advice for precautionary reasons, so he is only the President on paper. For this reason, we propose a very brief amendment, which consists in replacing one single word, and that the word "chairman" is replaced by the word "member." In fact, this will allow the government to flexibly decide which of its members will direct this advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u3	In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 367/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Kubík, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u4	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the first reading of this proposal took place at 5. 3. 2019 at the 27th meeting. At the time, the House did not agree with the petitioner's proposal to give its consent at first reading. The proposal was therefore directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. At its 21st meeting, it set a deadline for the submission of amendments by 16 April. It has not received any proposals within that period. At his 22nd meeting, after the explanation of the draft by Mr Ing. David Kopic, Deputy Minister for Regional Development, after my report and after the debate, adopted a resolution which I will now introduce to you. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 22nd meeting following the reasoning of Mr Ing's draft. David Kopic, Deputy Minister for Regional Development, after Mr Ing's intelligence report. Jan Kubík and, following the debate, adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve, in the wording of the proposal tabled, the Committee's rapporteur empowers the House of Deputies to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, and instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u5	I am therefore opening a general debate in which I have one single Member, and he is the President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u6	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have taken the liberty of taking part in this debate because I have already commented on this proposal in previous discussions. And let's say one thing. The actual change, the actually good change, or the change in this proposal, is correct. Yes, it is not important or essential that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic be a member of the ESIF and the President. I actually welcome this change from this point of view. But I'm not gonna vote for her, and I'm gonna tell you why. The amendment of this legislation occurred at a time when the European Parliament, in its previous composition, was very intensively addressing the conflict of interest of Prime Minister Babiš, even the European Parliament voted on it by the number of 434 Members. There was some correspondence between Commissioner Oettinger and Prime Minister Babiš, where there was a request for him to somehow break free from this conflict of interest. The reaction that followed is simply formal. Okay, well, I'm not gonna chair the ESIF. The EIF is only an advisory body of the government and the final decisions are made by individual ministries and ministers. I am therefore convinced that this is an illusionary measure. I do not wish the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to walk at the door when discussing matters of foreign and grant policy. I wish that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic could sit in these negotiations and maybe chair the ESIF because he simply will not be suspected of conflict of interest. I think only to this bill for the Pirates. And so I say that the proposal would be really right, but it is only a measure that the wolf ate and the sheep remained whole. And then in statistics, where it comes out, how the Czech Republic is fighting corruption, because it has anti-corruption laws that are not respected, I see this measure particularly in the context of discussing the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Babiš as such an example. We will send a boomer to the European Commission that we have resolved the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Babiš, because now some other minister of this government or someone else will be able to sit at the head of the ESIF. And I think that it is problematic, and it should sound when we approve of this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-015-007.u7	I will look around to see if there is any other interest in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask for final words, if necessary. Madam Secretary? Mr. Kubík? No. I am now initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I see no one to sign up, so I conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words again? You have no interest, so this concludes the second reading of this proposal. Let's move on to the next point. This is about
