ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /House print 452/ - third reading I will ask the Minister, who is already coming to the rapporteur's table, and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee of Mr Roman Sklenák. The amendments are set out in Parliament's Press 452/4, which was delivered on 7 June 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 452.5. I'm asking the plaintiff if she's interested in speaking. He's interested. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, at the outset of the third reading of the amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance, I would like to remind you that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u3	I'll interrupt you for a moment. I will ask those who are not interested in listening have something else to do, please do not disturb the dignity of this point and leave the O.R. or be silent. Thank you. One more time, please calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u4	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the incomes of a significant part of Czech pensioners are very low. Each seventh pensioner lives below the income poverty threshold and almost every third pensioner is threatened by poverty. One of the two seniors then receives an old-age pension which does not reach the minimum wage. A large proportion of elderly households are so difficult to get along with their incomes. For example, each fifth retirement household admits that housing costs alone are a great burden for them. This situation of Czech pensioners, especially those with lower pensions, led me to propose above-standard valorisation beyond the current law. My goal was to improve the situation of life especially in elderly people with lower pennies. The proposal therefore justifies relatively more low-income elderly pensions. For example, the relative increase in the pension will be CZK 9,000 per month, according to me, the amendment will be one quarter higher than the one with the pension of CZK 18,000 per month. On average, pensions after valorisation will increase by CZK 900 per month. Nine out of ten pensioners will increase pensions by at least CZK 750 per month. In this way, 90 percent of pensioners will have an old-age pension of at least CZK 10,750 per month. Four amendments were tabled to the amendment. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is disagreeable on all proposals. Although I would like to stress that, in principle, I agree with everyone, the exception is the last one - I will explain immediately. Nor has either of the proposals been recommended by the Social Policy Guarantee Committee. Mrs Šafránková's amendment to increase the basic salary of CZK 900 for seniors with a pension of up to CZK 10,000 per month follows the same objective as the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, however, it contradicts the basic principles of the pension system. Contrary to the principles of merit, for example. seniors who today have a pension of CZK 9,200 had a higher pension as a result of the amendment next year than those who have a pension of CZK 10,000 today. Contrary to the principles of the pension scheme, there would be two basic dimensions in 2020. The administrative system of the Czech Social Security Administration is not prepared for this. Similarly, the proposal would cause fluctuations in the income of a number of pensioners. The basic income of pensioners with a pension of up to CZK 10,000 would correspond to 10 per cent of the average gross wage in the economy in 2019, but would be increased by an additional CZK 900 in 2020 and would again be reduced to 10 per cent of the average gross wage in the economy in 2021. Mr Martínek's amendment B1 and Amendment C by Mrs Golasowská fall within the area of evaluation of child care at the rate of retirement. The Commission for Fair Pensions is currently discussing conceptual changes in this area. In the event of adoption, amendments would negatively affect the Commission's options effectively and in particular in the concept of a system of comprehensive assistance to pensioners who have been caring for children during their careers. Amendment B1 of Mr Martínek also proposes that the period of participation of insured persons caring for a child under the age of 9 be considered excluded. As I mentioned, I agree with this proposal in its principle and it is also one of the proposals which has the full support of almost all members of the Commission for Fair Pensions. The problem is that the proposal is not entirely understandable and it is clear that it contains both factual and procedural irregularities. From a factual point of view, the proposal is not consistent with the existing protection of parents by means of an institute of excluded times. According to the proposal, both parents could use the excluded period in the period after the fourth year of the child's age at the same time. However, it should be recalled that only one parent can benefit from this institute under the current regulation in the period up to the age of 4 years. This means that, illogically, for a period up to 4 years of age, a child's need for greater care would be more stringent. From a procedural point of view, the amendment also ignores the rules on prioritising the excluded period before income. In practice, according to the Czech Social Security Administration, the child care period of up to 9 years will not automatically be excluded when calculating the pension. Parents will have to apply actively when they retire, and most parents will probably not do that, in the experience so far, and the amendment will probably be ineffective, virtually. would be ineffective in the event of his acceptance. [[10.00 hours]] Mrs Golasowská amendment replaces a government proposal aimed at relatively higher valorisation for low-income pensioners with a completely different type of valorisation, which only increases parents' pensions on a standard basis. As I have also said, the appreciation of child care, which is a key function in our society, the assumption of the sustainability of the welfare state, is an idea which I very much appreciate, and it is the Commission for Fair Pensions. However, as always, the devil lies in detail. Specifically, the amendment increases the percentage of the retirement pension of both parents by CZK 500 per child raised. The amendment thus completely changes the meaning of the amendment and blunts its potential to stop the growth of pensioners at risk of poverty. This amendment attaches an increased pension to both parents of the child, even though statistics clearly show that children in the Czech Republic are being cared for in the vast majority of women. Child care thus reduces earnings and consequently pensions practically exclusively for women. The increase in pensions for both parents is hardly justified and budget-intensive at the same time. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs estimates the budgetary costs of Mrs Golasowská amendment to CZK 30 billion per year, which is twice as much as the most expensive measure to support carers under discussion and the expert apparatus of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepared in the Commission for Fair Pensions. In addition to budgetary costs, the amendment also brings major administrative complications. The proposal assumes an increase in parents' pensions without a request, even though the Czech Social Security Administration does not keep records of the number of children raised in a large part of current pensioners. It would therefore be necessary to complement the number of raised children in approximately 150,000 women and almost a million men by January, by 1 January 2020. This is not feasible in practice. For the idea, the Czech Social Security Administration issues about 350 thousand decisions every year in practice. The last amendment, proposal B2 by Mr Martínek - and I do not agree with this amendment either in principle - re-establishes the evaluation of the period of study as a period of participation in pension insurance. The proposal would significantly strengthen pension rights for those with higher education. They usually receive higher earnings and therefore their pensions are higher. The proposal would thus, contrary to the purpose of the amendment, lead to an increase in pensions for seniors who already have relatively high pensions. And I would remind you that every other senior today does not reach a pension of CZK 13,300. At the same time, the proposal, contrary to the current trend, strengthens the importance of non-payment periods for which insurance is not paid, while from an international point of view, the excessive scope of these non-payment periods in the Czech Republic, and I really note that this is one of the major causes of problems with the financial sustainability of our pension system. Only because of this amendment would pension insurance expenditure gradually increase by approximately CZK 30 billion per year. So here I see a fundamental contradiction, a fundamental lack of consistency between the appellant's declarations, which often raises the most important question of our pension system's financial sustainability, and at the same time, in the ultimate possible way of the amendment, would damage this financial sustainability, while helping those who at the moment need it least. As I said, we have 15 percent of seniors at risk of poverty or are in poverty and 30 percent of other people at risk of poverty. For all amendments, therefore, for the reasons described above, the position of the petitioner is disagreeable. Madam, honourable Members, I would therefore like to ask you to support the Government of the proposed version of the bill, which has also been recommended by the two committees to which the bill has been allocated. To sum up, our proposal is to protect the elderly from poverty. Despite record increases in pensions, our seniors are in a very difficult financial situation. Amendments - three in principle can be agreed with, but they are technically poorly prepared, the fourth I disagree with, I have just explained. As regards the so-called pension reforms, I remind you that we have it ready, I am waiting for a run-in in September by the Commission on Fair Pensions, so that we can actually discuss all areas, and I will present the proposal in autumn. It's going to be a set of five to ten parametric changes. I have said that it is crucial for me that pension reform be prepared consensually across the political spectrum, because it is not sustainable to promote pension reform in a narrow, strong way. And depending on how many measures we agree on, I so strongly hope that we will make our pension system fair and sustainable. But once again, I remind you that it will be crucial for its feasibility and its success so that we can agree as politicians. Changes as fundamental as pensions must not be made politically overdrawn. This proposal will increase pensions for all pensioners, but relatively more for low-income pensioners. We're talking about a novel we have at third reading. I take the view that it is not fair and dignified for a senior to receive a pension of less than CZK 10,000 per month after 35 years of work and insurance payments under the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a debate on this point, on which Mrs Šafránková is the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the vote on the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, we have one of the last chances of making the thousands of senior citizens who have lived in an unenviable and undignified situation for many years at least partially more enjoyable. Autumn of life, the last years of their lives, in whose productive parts they worked for this state, raised children, paid taxes and contributions according to applicable laws, and their existential situation at the end of life is more than bad due to the coincidence of various disadvantaged times and legislative contexts. A group of low-income and lonely old-age pensioners is one of the most endangered components of our society. All the more so that in the vast majority of cases it cannot help itself with its activities and the possibility of helping from families is very limited. Low income, high cost of living, especially those mandatorial, housing costs, energy costs, medicines, which, by the way, are items whose present amount the state, in the form of executive and legislative power, has also had a high impact. Often slumps into debt traps, immoral executions, in whose tentacles almost 100,000 of our seniors are currently trapped. The need to repeatedly show a low income in respect of applications for social support and assistance benefits in a humiliating manner. For example, from current statistics of the Council of Seniors of the Czech Republic, among others. It follows that lonely men seniors will pay an estimated 70 percent of their pension for housing, and senior women will spend about 80 percent of their pension on housing and even much more in Prague and Brno. In total, the share of housing costs in the incomes of seniors in Prague and statutory cities is well above 40 percent. In the light of these data, it is completely inadequate and inexcusable to criticize only emotionally, it is necessary to take action specifically, including massive construction of municipal housing and rent regulation, but this is a longer course. The government assembly boasts very often a good macroeconomic situation and increasing public budget revenues, so who else should profit at least partially from it than this most vulnerable part of our society, our parents and grandparents, which, among others, should benefit from it. Do we owe our work and life to building the foundations and conditions for our future better lives? [[10.10 hours]] The government says that it has increased retirement pensions to the highest in modern history. From a certain point of view, it can be agreed, finally the SPD has always actively supported this increase. Now, however, we are clearly coming across barriers and limits to this form of valorisation, where it is only a flat-screen comparison of consumer price inflation, which is not helped in any way by the reverse trend of opening scissors of income and standard of living in our society. On the contrary, the world of income poverty is increasingly separated from the rest of society. Where we can influence it, we must act against it. First of all, towards our old-age pensioners, where, in addition, there is a broad social consensus on the need for greater direct assistance to those who are at their worst financially, and the vast majority of taxpayers would allocate their solidarity and tax contributions if they could theoretically. Moreover, the Czech society, characterised by a sense of peace and natural general justice, understands very well that a senior with a monthly income of CZK 30 or 40,000 does not need really financial assistance from the state at the same amount as his generational colleague with a monthly income of less than CZK 10,000. Let us, therefore, keep in mind, in the vote on increasing pensions, in particular, its specific impact on the life situation and the fate of all its addressees, and try to think in particular of our oldest fellow citizens, whose income situation is the worst, to 200,000 old-age pensioners with incomes below CZK 10,000 per month, which I propose from next year a special increase in pensions of another CZK 900 over the normal annual valorisation proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond briefly to my colleague Šafránková's speech. I would like to ask the SPD to work on the legislative quality of its proposals, because if they actually write a proposal that shows that a pensioner who is currently taking 9,200 will take a higher pension than a pensioner who is taking 10,000 today, it just doesn't make sense. That's obviously unconstitutional. Because it is not possible for a person who has worked longer to pay more money, then he has a lower pension than anyone else. So even those of us who would like to support the increase in the lowest pensions, for this reason, cannot vote in favour of this proposal of yours, because it is simply a legislative pasquil that would not stand up to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u9	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will now speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the opinion of the TOP 09 very briefly and, above all, to comment on the various amendments that have been tabled and our position on them. As for the proposal put forward by the government, it is again an effort to increase pensions by CZK 180 on average over legal valorisation. It should be recalled once again that the statutory valuation is CZK 720, which means, regardless of who would be the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the finance, who is Prime Minister, this increase would take place, and this proposal should therefore be increased to CZK 900 by an additional CZK 180 over this framework. So this is actually crucial in the debate not to forget. The individual amendments then seek to increase further in the case of carers, as Mrs Golasowská suggests, or in the case of persons with very low pensions, as suggested by previous speaker Mrs Šafránková, however, neither of these two proposals can be supported, not only because of their very fundamental budgetary implications, but also in terms of implementation. In the case of Mrs Šafránková, not only for the reason that Mr Ferjenčík mentioned here, but also because we are simply not convinced that we should try to improve pension levelling and not take account of the previous contributions made by those people during their active life, their working era, to the State. In this case, we are not supposed to try to make the system, which is already very solidarity, even more solid at the expense of the merit of pensioners. That is what we think is even more fundamental than the budgetary impact. As far as Mr Martínek's amendments, which he has tabled here in order to address the excluded time for one of the parents caring for the child, we certainly want to support this, as well as counting the study period as a substitute period in calculating pensions, so we will again support this, because we believe that these are steps that benefit those who are caring, or who are not yet able to count the time at the time of study. These are therefore positions on amendments. Now allow me to make a brief remark on the whole proposal in general. The overall vote will, of course, also be based on what amendments will eventually be adopted, but the TOP 09 support for this proposal, despite the many reservations that we repeatedly make, follows, in particular, that the real increase in income, the compensation of its proportion to the average salary, has been a downward trend in recent years. In her speech at the ČSSD convention, the Minister also Kalousek that it was more than that, 42 percent of the average salary, and during the reign of Andrej Babiš, we got to 37 percent of the average salary, which I can illustrate very simply with this graph, which I'm sure you all know very well. [[Shows the appropriate graph.]] That is why, of course, it is obvious to talk about raising pensions, but not just for the current framework by next year. I wonder how the government wants to move up in the coming years, because the economy is starting to cool, and I wonder how the Minister has a view of 2021, 2022 and so on. Because every year here we deal with the same principle that an ad hoc system adjustment is made so that it is possible to add a little bit more in addition to the valorisation that goes by law. As I said, this year it is about CZK 180, but how it wants to deal with it in the coming years we will not know very much, and we know that the forecasts and the government documents themselves that are presented are quite clear in the sense that the system really is not sustainable in this form in the long term. I would say that this government is acting as a government of indifference. Indifference to the future of all citizens of the Czech Republic in the sense that it only solves short-sighted things that will be the next year, but no longer deals with how to approach the whole problem that lies ahead for the next years in horizons longer, at least ten years old. I think that this future will come down hard, I know it, just for all the citizens who will feel it hard on their own. After all, there are also government officials to their own programming statement, which then becomes just a piece of paper, because the programme statement, which we all know very well, is a priority no. 1 pension reform. We have not yet heard any general idea and thesis from this, and so if we should take this programme document seriously, I think there really isn't much time left. I want to ask the Minister how seriously the programming statement is, how seriously he thinks that the sustainability of the system can be dealt with by the pension committee if it is to be accessed as it is declared in autumn. Because when we see and experience, for example, increasing the parental contribution that we will be discussing within the House, how difficult a coalition agreement is born on individual proposals, how long the debate is going on, how often the views are changed, how one day we are solemnly declared "we have consensus" and the next day under pressure from the public, which is not satisfied with the consensus, suddenly the opinion changes rapidly and further and further negotiations occur, and this is only about 300 thousand families with children, whereas there are millions of people in retirement and future pensioners, it is simply possible to say practically all citizens of the Czech Republic. [[10.20 hours]] So if you are not able to have an agreement on much, I would say, easier things to agree on in the sense that even the opposition is very supportive of those actions, so how are you able to find agreement over the remaining two years of this parliamentary term on a really functional system that you would be able to enforce? This seems to me to be a very courageous task and a claim that it is even possible. If that is what you want and you really mean your programming statement, then you will certainly be able to declare it, and not only that, you will also be able to comply with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which we adopted here about a year ago, 29 June 2018, which was approved by the vast majority of those times, I will be happy to give it to you, because it is good to refresh that, in this resolution, the Chamber of Deputies asks the government to immediately start work on preparing a change in the pension system and to look for a solution to this situation for the future and until 31. On the 12th of this year, in 2019, she introduced the Chamber of Deputies to the steps she had taken in this matter. [[reads from the background]] And then there is point two, which I think is equally important, namely that the Chamber of Deputies warns the government that the current financing of a pension scheme based primarily on labour taxation is unsustainable in the long term. So here in this document, clearly black and white, there are steps that you should be able to finalize in the near future, because the end of this year is really coming up, and we still don't know if there will be only partial changes to the current pensions and pensioners, or whether it will be about the overall system and solutions, so that we will not see a collapse in a few years. Again, I remind you that at that time, even the current pensioners, many of them, a large part of them will still be retired, will be added to them, of course, so it will apply not only to those who are still working, but also to those existing pensioners, many of them. I think it is very unfair not to start working on this at a time when we can afford such a discussion. Not only do we have to let it start just because we are not facing recession, we are facing no economic crisis and no such scenario at the moment. I also think it is fair to say that the commission in this composition - I am a member of it - is working very intensively on individual steps, so it really meets regularly every month and each time solves a new and new issue. However, it was also beautifully visible in the last, that even on some of the more fundamental steps, government parties are not able to agree as part of their preparation, whether they should even develop those options further. And that is why, in my opinion, it is important, in particular, for you to make order within the coalition in what you really want, whether you want to implement your programming statement or not, whether you want to do only partial steps or make real fundamental changes. And if you're not clear about this within the coalition, then I think it's completely futile for us to expect this crucial task to be carried out here for the whole Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u11	Thank you. Next, Mrs Golasowská is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we welcome any financial support that will contribute to pensioners' pensions. We think he deserves it. Seniors deserve this for their lifelong work, and they deserve to be properly valued financially, especially at this time when housing costs are rising, medicines, other things, and the cost of residence services is rising. If the senior is applying for a place in the guest house, in a home for seniors, so we know that there are really those cost of stay and other services above their possibilities. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few words about our amendment, that is the famous 500 for every raised child. In particular, we wanted to appreciate those seniors who worked their whole lives and raised children, future taxpayers, our future generation, who will work again to ensure that pensioners have pensions. We know that there are currently about 1.6 children per woman, and we need about 2.1 children, which we do not yet meet. And we know that we have little children, so we would like to support those who have worked and raised children. And in the future, we want to encourage families to have children and in the future to know that they will be honored by raising children. I would also like to say that yes, it certainly costs a lot of money, as we have heard from the Minister here, and it would cost a lot of money, but I mean, those seniors aren't spending it in tax havens, but they're basically spending it in our economy. I also want to point out that if they receive a financial award for pensions, they often will not have to ask, for example, for additional contributions, as is the case today, for a living allowance, because their financial situation will actually improve. And it's often undignified. They themselves say: we do not want to go to the authorities to ask for contributions, because we think that society should appreciate us for working and raising children all our lives. There are certainly many seniors who do not even ask for contributions, even if they are entitled to them. So about that much for our amendment. We served it last year. And as I say, the main objective of the proposal is to appreciate seniors who have worked their whole lives raising children. We think he deserves it. Thank you for supporting our amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u13	Thank you. Mr Bauer is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u14	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me really, very briefly, on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party, to give our opinion on this proposal and perhaps just briefly repeat what has been said here many times during all readings. First of all, I must say that I have listened carefully to the speech by Minister Jana Maláčová, and I must say, Madam Secretary through Mr President, that I was struck by your speech, that you are using a lot of terms and words like I suggest, proposed by me, I have arranged and taken care of. I naively thought it was a government proposal to raise pensions. And she's the poor government's almost the fifth wheel of the car somewhere. So I feel that if you were almost not in government, the YES movement would slowly not add a crown to our Czech pensioners. It was just my feeling about your performance. Otherwise, I would like to say that, at a time of economic growth, even our seniors deserve to increase pensions, and therefore the Civic Democratic Party MP supports this government proposal. I would like to reiterate that this is not a pension reform. After all, this has also been heard several times by Secretary of Finance Schillerová. It was also said here that this was only an extraordinary increase in the percentage of over CZK 900, and it is true that most of the total increase is based on the valuation formula. So I really want to repeat that any government that is in power at the moment would increase by approximately 720 kroner due to the valorisation formula, and you're making up for the 180 to 250 kroner. [[10.30 hours]] It is good to say that the total increase for next year is CZK 7 billion. This increase has not been discussed within the pension commission and even in the background of this government proposal, it states that, from the perspective of the long-term sustainability of public finances, this proposal means the need for additional fiscal consolidation. If I were to translate additional fiscal consolidation into Czech, it costs a lot of money, and future budgets of the Czech Republic will not have the money to avoid huge deficits, so it is necessary to either raise revenue or reduce expenditure. That's what it says in the explanatory note. In other words, the explanatory memorandum asks who will put it there, and that is what the pension reform we have been talking about for so long. It is true that this government coalition has indeed done nothing in the context of pension reform for six years, and it also applies, and it has already been said that only in the past has the second pillar been abolished. We can discuss it a thousand times whether it was good or bad, but it was some first concrete step in solving the pension system in the Czech Republic. What you have retained is only the then increase in VAT to cover the costs associated with the second pillar, and you retain that money under this VAT and happily dissolve it in the state budget. The government has a pension reform as a megapriority in its programming declaration. That is what we have said several times. I would also like to remind you that Jana Maláčová, under the auspices of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, set up a pension committee about six months ago. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, because of fear of the word reform, this Commission is called the Commission on Fair Pensions and has, in my view, incredible 44 members, which significantly complicates the discussion and proposals in the work of this Commission. I feel that this is a commission for the media interests of the Czech Social Democratic Party rather than for government purposes, and because it is a commission for the media interests of the Czech Social Democratic Party, it also has the results it has. I would like to conclude by saying that if the government were really interested in pensioners, it would also have to want to address the situation of future pensioners, which it does not, and it has not, of course, been doing so for seven years, and I feel that it is by its inactivity that it is throwing overboard especially current 30s and 40s at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have, I have, and I will always believe that pension payments under the compulsory insurance scheme are to be paid according to the statutory valuation formula and that the government has no right to increase the remuneration from this valuation formula by political decision. Why? As popular as it may seem, however pleasant it is for the roughly 2.5 million addressees, the government is doing so in a situation where it has no idea, not as long-term, but how to maintain a system of this rate of increase in the medium term. Worse yet, the government has no idea how to keep the pace of increasing according to that simple valorization formula. You just don't have the idea, even though you know that the situation when we start going downhill is ten, eleven, twelve years ahead. You yourself state in government documents that after 2030, when the 1970s retire, the system begins to fall into an unsolvable situation. Yes, the state can then sprain a wedge for about ten years, and around 2040 we are in a totally unsolvable situation if we do not fundamentally change something with the political courage and competence involved. But neither one nor the other, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are not willing to do so. You were, yes, very critical of the second pillar, you canceled it in 2014, and in 2014, you said: we will offer our own alternative. And please believe me that if you offered your own alternative that would be better than what we tried to do, we would like to support it, because we never claimed that we were the bearers of a single truth. But you didn't offer any alternative through your vows. You have pension reform as one of the top priorities in the government's programming statement... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] Thank you. You have pension reform as one of the main priorities, and we all know that what happens in that committee, which calls itself the Commission for Fair Pensions, does not really lead to any reform and will not lead to it. That means what you have in the government's programming statement will not be fulfilled. That's the only thing I can rejoice about not being filled with the stupidity you have in the government's programming statement that it will separate the pension account from the state budget. That is your promise, that is your commitment to the voters and to this House. If you don't keep it, I'll be glad. But that's just proof of how incompetent you've been treating the issue of pensions from the very beginning when you've been writing the government's programming statement. Even most of you already know it's stupid today, and that's probably why you won't make it, even though you promised to do it. That's just another proof of your incompetence and your political courage to take that basic step. And now that you have no idea how to maintain pension increases in the long term even after 2030 through simple valuation formulas, of course, a political decision where you increase the legal valorisation, even by just two hundred, you do not add 900 to pensioners, you add 200: 700 to pensioners by your political decision, based on the legal formula, they are entitled to that, and you add 200 crowns to them by your own political decision. But you could say it the other way around. You're speeding up the system's failure, because at the moment you know, and you know that, because you have it in your government documents, that after 2030, the system is unsustainable with a normal legal valuation formula, so at the time of the increase of CZK 200, you're accelerating the system's failure unless you have your own solution to stabilize the system in the long run, and you don't have it! And this is the problem of your total irresponsibleness to future generations. This is a problem that is not only reflected in your policy in compulsory insurance because we could talk about health insurance anyway. These are two problems complementaryly linked - pension and health insurance. But it also translates into your approach to environmental policy. If the Prime Minister at the European Council says he doesn't see why we should be dealing with what's going to happen in 2050 from an environmental point of view, this is exactly your approach in pension insurance. Because all of us who know your analysis and your documents know that 2050 is, without systemic change, a completely critical year in terms of pensions and, of course, in terms of health insurance. And you know that without doing anything, that in the years 2040 to 2050, pension and health care are fundamentally threatened for everyone, and you don't care. You don't give a damn, like Babiš, who doesn't give a damn if we have a ruined landscape here in 2050 and what our environment will look like, especially if he's been able to pump the landscape enough for his private interests. [[10.40 hours]] The total total, total irresponsibleness of these government parties to future generations, to what will be here in 2030, in 2050, 2050, is reflected in your approach to all long-term systems, whether they are public insurance, even if they are private insurance premiums, because when you scrapped out all the reserves you had in public budgets, you want to reach into private insurance reserves as well as in environmental policy. For this reason, I am unable to vote for the proposal. I can't. Because I would support the lack of accountability of government parties to future generations. I cannot, of course, vote against him either, because at least 700 crowns are legally entitled by the valuation formula that is valid and have reason to have legitimate expectations for him. The only thing I can do is just shut down in the vote so I don't participate in this irresponsible orgy, and promise that TOP 09 and the leading experts will develop a variant of the real pension reform that will be the pillar of our next electoral program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u17	That was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Now Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková's factual comment. A colleague Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to make two brief remarks to Mr Kalousek, by your means, Mr President. One. Speaking of responsibility, what was very irresponsible to the future was pulling pension insurance from the ongoing pillar into those private funds. First of all. From the perspective of longevity. Two. If you are talking about the fact that the political decisions at the moment are just the two hundred, then I would remind you that it was a social democracy that pushed against the right-wing governments in which you, Mr President, were at all in the process of valorisation, because you did not increase the pensions at all in your time. And we pushed through a new valorisation mechanism for Sobotkův's government, so the valorization wasn't CZK 40, as it was based on the original one, but today's valorization is CZK 700. And that was also the political decision of social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u19	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u20	Thank you. I do not wish, my colleague, to argue with you through the President about the suitability or unsuitability of the second pillar. We've had the debate. I'm just pointing out that when you canceled it in 2014, you promised to present your own option. And once again, believe me, if you put it forward, we'd like to discuss it, and we'd like to support it if it were viable. But you're not up to it! Five years have passed since then! And you're not in a position to present an option. And I warn you about that. I'm saying it's most irresponsible! Anyone can cancel something. But to create and build something is, of course, difficult, it also requires political courage and you do not have it! And while pension reform is a priority in your government's programming statement, we can be absolutely sure that no such proposal will be submitted today. Definitely not viable. Maybe a proposal will be made to add a little bit to the women. But there will certainly not be a proposal for a long-term stabilisation of the pension reform system. First of all. Two. If you're saying how bad it was for us, then for us the average pension against the average wage was 42 percent, today it's 38 percent. Today, a pensioner can buy much less for his average pension than a person who has an average wage. At least you see, in this fact, how unsustainable the system is. And you don't give a damn!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual point, Mr Jiří Dolejš. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u22	I understand that the word pension triggers certain conditional reflexes on the subject of general reforms. And I also understand that especially pension reform is so crucial that it is a huge challenge. But it is also a huge challenge to work through the political spectrum and to perceive each other both sides of the House. Because philosophy that the only solution is the right one that we bring, and other solutions that come from the opposite end of the political landscape are the wrong ones automatically, so that's not how far we're going to get. By the way, about the replacement ratio. It's easy when... it's a relative number. In short, it's not just about the growth of the pension, but it's not about the growth of the purchasing power of the pension. It's about the fact that when wages go down, of course, the compensation ratio can get better or worse. So I wouldn't do too much of a wiggle with this number. Let us remember that when it comes to the purchasing power of pensions, and it was a requirement especially for senior organisations, we were only over-averages, above the level of the law, catching up with the loss of purchasing power, which arose just in the years when pension growth slowed down. That's what retirees care about. That's what's particularly interested in the below-average pensions he's going to buy for the pension. And not what the average temperature in the hospital is, which shows a little bit of the substitution ratio. Because, of course, the lower income ratios are completely different from those above average. And that would bring us to a debate on the meaning of equivalence and solidarity, etc. etc. That's a debate that doesn't belong here tonight. I think today we have to decide that those seniors are gonna get what they're basically waiting for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Dolínek's point of order, then Mr Kalousek. Vice-President Okamura has applied with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u24	I would like to thank Mr Kalousek, through the President, for finally learning why wages were so low in the time of right-wing governments. Because there was a high level of fear that some scissors wouldn't open up. The government of social democracy has decided to increase both wages and pensions. And I think it's seen in the real economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr Kalousek. Vice-President Okamura will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u26	Allow me to respond under the Rules of Procedure - I do not intend to respond to Mr Dolínek's inadequacy. But I wanted to address Mr Dolejš through Mr President. Ambassador, we didn't listen to each other. I didn't even claim that we were the bearer of the only right option. I humbly accept the criticism that our option was not ideal if there is a competitive alternative that we can talk about. My only criticism is that since 2014, since your parties canceled our option, there has been nothing on the table to discuss seriously, even though Prime Minister Babiš promised it in the summer of 2016, and even though the government has it in its programming statement for this term. It's 2019, five years gone by. There's nothing on the table but populist arguments about whether someone raises a hundred or two hundred. But you don't have the guts to hold it for the next 20 years. And that's the problem. That'll have to wait for us again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u27	Thank you. One more factual point - Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would just like to respond to my colleague Kalousek through you. Let's be a little court-martialed. Mr. Colleague, you're saying that we didn't essentially submit anything viable after the abolition of the second pillar. But the second pillar wasn't viable either. I mean, he'd go down on his own. You know very well. So if you're gonna criticize that we haven't submitted anything, I'm not gonna deny it. But you didn't bring anything viable either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u29	Thank you for keeping time. We now have Mr. Vice-President Tomio Okamura's priority right. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen here essentially opposition from the other political parties against the SPD's proposals to increase pensions for the poorest pensioners. Yes, we in the SPD make it clear that for pensions up to CZK 12, 13,000 - 13,000 is the average in the Czech Republic for pensions - that it is simply not possible to live for them. You just can't live on those pensions. That is why we have proposed a series of measures. Among other things, of course, our Member and Vice-President of the Social Committee Lucie Šafránková is trying to address this on our behalf so that in the absence of government action, when they really do nothing about the minimum pensions, and I will be specific in a moment - they do, but even worse. So, of course, we're trying to add at least another nine hundred to those who have minimum pensions. And here I would mention our real system proposal, which is what we have put forward and which rejects the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, and that is the law on the legalization of the so-called minimum dignified pension, which even applies in some developed countries. So I'm glad that - Madam Secretary is already reporting for a reaction here, so I'll complete my question for you. Madam Secretary, I've taken a trip to fund a pro-migration political nonprofit organization to see the priorities of your ministry where you're going with the money. And I see that the Refugee Aid Organization, that's Mr. Rozumek, how it runs there, as well as in 2018 from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs there went 2 022 489 CZK. So we say for the SPD, let's give these millions to the seniors. You say it at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs - you just don't say it, you even put it there, so you put it in support of migrants. Furthermore, your President Jan Hamáček is already giving you advice behind my back, and he's already telling you how to answer, so I hope you've agreed behind my back that he's already told you how to answer. So we're curious. But in order to complicate things a little, I have to respond to Mr. Ferjenčík's pirát here, too. Because this organization to support refugees - this is Mr. Rozumek, as it leads - in 2018 it also came from the South Moravian Region 820 600 crowns, from the Pilsen Region 560 859 crowns, even from the city part of Prague 14, which contributed 175 000 crowns to migrants. But what I want to say is that the Prague City Council also contributed. In addition, the Municipality of the Statutory City of Brno, the Municipal District of Plzeň, also contributed. Together it is 35 million crowns in total. And when I looked at who's in charge of these cities and these regions, let's name it who's there. So who has priorities at the expense of seniors to give money to, for example, different migrants. And in the government in these cities and city districts and in this city, there are Pirates, ČSSD, ANO movement, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. And there's also ODS. That means those are the priorities I've been going through. Yes, in 2018, this organisation was financed from these sources. So, of course, there's the Open Society Fund of George Soros, too, that can't be missed here. [[Laughter from members of the Pirates.]] From that they received 363 750 crowns. And, of course, the migration here is funded by the European Union. Since they received CZK 14 million from the European Union, the Asylum Migration and Integration Fund, the so-called AMIF, and received CZK 11 387,000 from the next European Fund. So, to get the discussion back, of course, we, as SPD, have different priorities. And I only pulled one of the nonprofit organizations. So, Madam Secretary, if you don't explain this to us, I'm gonna make this list a lot more extensive next time, because there's a lot of nonprofit political organizations you're funding. So we can discuss it, and we can talk about what the priorities of your resort are. But back to the pensions. I'm a little surprised that the government didn't support our proposal for a minimum dignified pension. The law is already here. We have proposed that the border should be calculated on the basis of the so-called poverty border set by the European Statistical Office, the so-called Eurostat. Today it is about 12 thousand crowns pure for the Czech Republic. And so that all seniors - and the condition is worked for years, I want to stress this, the condition is worked for years, it remains there - so that they have a minimum dignified retirement circus of 12,000 crowns. Which today is the poverty line set by Eurostat for the Czech Republic. And from this amount of credit. From this amount of credit. Because we stand by the fact that pensions up to CZK 12 or CZK 13,000, which is about average in the Czech Republic today, cannot be lived on. I can't. And you can laugh at us here, just like we were laughing at our suggestions a moment ago, Minister Maláčová - that's not what the audience sees on the camera, but I see you here because I've got you three feet apart, and you've got the president of ČSSD Hamáček here to tell you what to answer. So we're just conflicting. You laugh, the pirát laugh, but we don't laugh, because the seniors up to 13,000 pure are really a lot, they're in a desperate situation. And I would like to point out that we in the SPD are thinking about disabled pensioners as well. They're important to us, too, and we want to raise money for them. And where do you get it from? It's obvious, and I've already indicated it here. Let us cancel funding for political non-profit organizations. But the ČSSD will never do that because you are hand in hand with them. Furthermore, of course, we say straight: let's cancel the unaddressed doses. On the contrary, we propose a dose reduction. Next thing I know, let's pull the troops out of Afghanistan. It is not true that this is our commitment to NATO membership. France has also withdrawn them and are members of NATO. That's not true at all. It's a purely political decision that they're there. And we say, rather than being soldiers in Afghanistan, let us add to our pensioners both disabled and old age, so let us add and support fundamentally working families with children. Those are SPD priorities. So you, like the ČSSD, can mock us here for our suggestions. We do not laugh about it, we will continue to stand firm on our agenda, we will stand firm on increasing both old age and disability pensions for the poorest, because we want them to live well. So let's get back to the draft for the minimum dignified pension. As I said, this is true in some developed countries. So I would like to place this proposal here, if possible, so that there is a government coalition on it, so that you can actually agree that this is a priority for us to discuss it, and I hope that you will support the SPD's proposal. Because I think it's the important group. I know a number of seniors, not only seniors, but also disabled pensioners, who actually have up to CZK 12, up to CZK 13,000. And I have to say, they're literally living. That means one thing is when someone's smiling, and the other is whether they're suggesting an alternative. Yeah, that's the thing. An alternative must be proposed, so how we can help them. For example, we have been saying from the beginning that pensions should be increased by a fixed amount, not by a percentage. That's what Prime Minister Sobotka was constantly refusing last term. He didn't want it. And we say that when pensions increase to all percentages, we make it clear that scissors spread between poorer pensioners and richer ones. And we say that everyone's costs rise equally because even poorer pensioners need the same amount of heat, they have the same hunger, they also need to live a certain quality of life. And they just need to get the same amount of money, because they're all going up in the same way. [[11.00 hours]] Those are our opinions. So no matter what you say here, you make excuses, say what kind of populist ideas they are, and so on -- yes, we've heard the vox population. We've heard from the citizens, and it's a vox population, and that's what we're here for in the SPD. I walk almost every weekend on events, asking people who burn them. I know you do parlor politics in the CSSD. I hardly see you anywhere at any of these events. This is what citizens are telling us, and we are transferring these suggestions to the Chamber of Deputies, and our task is to transform it into proposals and discuss it with you. So that's it, and I hope to get a satisfactory answer here to the funding of these political nonprofits, that's what I'm talking about, that's why I'm funding. And whether that answer is one or the poppy tree, I'll think about making up a wider list of what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is funding for these political nonprofits, so maybe next time we can look at it a little bit more closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u31	That was Chairman Tomio Okamura. Before we continue with the applications, we will change the order given how factual and preferential applications have come into the debate. Mr Ferjenčík and Minister Maláčová, with the right of priority, are to make a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Okamura through Mr President, unfortunately, you have not listened to my speech on your proposal to this press. The basic problem is that you have processed the legislative pasquil, which makes people who have taken more money and worked for more years get less money to retire. That's completely absurd. It's completely nonsense for a person who is entitled to a pension of 10,000 today after the increase, to have a lower pension than a person who has paid and paid less in the past and is entitled to a pension of 9,200 today. It's totally crazy for a person who's worked less and taken less to get more money. And that's what you suggested, and that's why we can't support it. So please don't blame us here, and if you really want to help those low-income pensioners, which we want, which is why we support this government proposal, then prepare these legislative proposals thoroughly so that you don't have to be ashamed to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now factual points - I am registering the President's priority right to the ČSSD club, but I still have to draw out the factual remarks under the Rules of Procedure. Member Jan Zahradník, Lubomír Španěl, Jaroslav Holík. Then, Minister Maláčová, then Chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u34	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not surprise you, I will not be speaking professionally on the subject that we have been discussing here for a long time. I'd rather respond to what my colleague Kalousek and colleague Bauer here said, who mentioned the work of the task force. The theme of pensions is not a topic that would be the subject of our century, the subject of our time. It was dealt with by people in quite detail already in the last century. For example, I can mention an article published in 1885 in the journal for Mathematics and Physics, the author of which is Martin Pokorný, director of the Higher Real Gymnasium here not far from us in Malá Strana. The article is called Disability Pension, but the word invalid or disabled person was perceived differently than today, to a much wider extent - as a person or a person who is unable to work and work for himself. And Pokorný here says: The main mining of social issues rests on ensuring the nutrition of every working person for his old age. Or also - I quote from his article: Surely every state cares that the well-being of its citizens should be ensured as best as possible, and especially that its desire to save with intent should be aroused by them as they themselves would help to take sufficient precautions in old age. - So you've got it from Pokorný recommended. I know, of course, that this may not be a big topic for you, but if any of the working groups were interested in this topic from the last century, from the past century, I can, of course, provide the article for a more detailed study. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u35	Your time for a point of fact is over. Mr Lubomír Španěl's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would very briefly like to support the words of Tomio Okamura and Lucie Šafránková. You know, we're often very distracted from the reality of life. I live in the village, I see it, a lot of people are really desperately waiting for this House to finally improve those with the smallest income. I don't know where you get the conviction that everyone made their own little pension. Believe that there are pensions, we're talking here that some of them are less than 13,000, but there are pensions that are less than 8,000. And how are these people really supposed to live with it? Why do you think they brought this on themselves? Remember, too, that you are young, you are living in a new age, but those people went from original socialism to capitalism, many were not able to adapt to it, not everyone was educated enough to get him adequate paid employment, which means that he worked for lower wages, paid lower social contributions. Of course, that's why he's having a little retirement today. But that doesn't mean we're going to keep looking for excuses, and we're not going to help these people survive in our society at all. Please, let's think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Jaroslav Holík's factual remark, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Between 11 and 12 o'clock, she apologizes for her personal reasons, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Now, Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Roman Sklenák, will be prepared, also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u38	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I would like to follow up a little on the words of my colleague Lubomír Španěl. My mom worked her whole life in the Style production team. He has a pension of CZK 9,000. I'm not complaining, she's more or less modest and doesn't complain either. But we have a number of groups, social groups and other groups of people who haven't worked their whole lives, and they're calculated on average. So now that the average pension is around 14,000, it's a certain injustice. And allow me, therefore, to address Mr Ferjenčík through the President. Mr colleague, not all proposals may be perfect, but if we want to help the elderly, we should work together and pull together, not look for mistakes for each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u39	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, so far Mr Sklenák's final point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u40	Thank you for the floor. Me to my two previous speakers. Gentlemen, we're not listening. Of course, all of us sitting here have the opportunity and right to table amendments. But the procedure should be such that if I want to incorporate an idea into the amendment, I should put the greatest effort into the quality of the legislative proposal, then I should also verify whether the amendment, if approved, is applicable in practice. And when I have a suggestion like that, I should mediate it. Unfortunately, it's become such a mess here that the media presentation, 95 percent of the time and money are invested in it, so the press conferences, the performances from this place are dozens, and then someone just writes it in five minutes. And that's the problem. What you put forward just doesn't match what you're presenting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I hope the Minister will comment on this, but I would like to say to the SPD, there really is no pension calculated from the average pension to anybody. Whoever doesn't have a pension, doesn't have a pension! Whoever never went to work can't have, hasn't worked out any counted years. This is a simple hoax that has been clearly disproved on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for about ten years, it is still rotating, it is one of the most widespread fake reports. There's just no average pension that counts for anybody. Those people who never worked get social benefits, but it's not a pension! I hope the Minister will explain it, because that is not really the case. And please don't repeat the fake news here! No average pension is counted on anyone's pension when he didn't go to work. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with the priority right of Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder which of those, as Mr Bělobrádek rightly said, hoaxes or fake news, I should respond first. But I'll start with: minimum pension, it's not that we've refused minimum pension. I said it in my opening words. I said I agree with the idea. We are even discussing this in the Commission on Fair Pensions. If your deputy went there, you'd know that. But SPD reps barely go to the committee. But the problem is how the proposal is processed. You would simply punish people who are also financially ill with their pensions, so you would punish them twice. That's the problem. You're making a difference between a guy who has a pension of 9,200 and 10,000. But the one with 10,000 would be worse off. And that's so unfair. So that's what we've been talking about here, and that's why I'm rejecting the amendment. As far as nonprofits are concerned, I can assure you that in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, no nonprofit organizations receive subsidies for other than social activities. That's another lie spreading around here. We can go over the numbers and the amounts if they're true, and we can see what those people, those nonprofit organizations, got subsidies for. Because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs receives subsidies for the care of seniors, for primary prevention, that is to ensure that families, social services and similar activities do not fall apart. So please don't split people up here and turn citizens and the public against nonprofit organizations. And at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I firmly support it, all subsidies are made, especially for seniors and family care, so that our society works and is more coherent. And as for the 2.5 million crowns, you probably know that if we decided to cancel the subsidy on senior care, we would have saved 2.5 million crowns, exactly one crown for each senior. Because we have 2.5 million old-age pensioners. So the question is, is this not to be done, for example? social services, if every senior gets an extra crown according to your suggestions, then if they're helped. Unaddressed doses. So now I think very quickly as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which social benefit at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is unaddressed. The only thing I can think of is a parental contribution. So I get it right - and there's still an opportunity to discuss her lack of address. I take it the SPD is proposing to cancel the parental allowance? Am I getting this right? Because this afternoon, we're going to vote on his increase. And I'm very interested in that. And no one mocks you, Mr. Chairman. But the claim that many pensioners receive less than CZK 13,000 is simply very inaccurate. Half the seniors have a pension of less than CZK 13,000. We're talking about nearly 1.5 million people. So not a few people that you know a few people, but 1.5 million seniors barely have a pension of CZK 13,000. And that's why we're proposing a substantial increase in pensions. Because we're dealing with their situation, we want to help the elderly. I was talking about it in my opening words. We want people who have worked for 35 years to spend their entire lives in social security to live a dignified life. In old age, in the last years of my life. So please don't claim these untruths, half-truths and the like. Don't turn people against each other! Let's discuss how we can help people. But please, you can't put this discussion behind you with such untruths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u45	Thank you, Minister Maláčová. Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. I would like to respond through the Vice-President to Vice-President Okamura. I don't understand why, in every performance, he reacts in some way and messes up the ČSSD. I guess we must have done something terrible to him in the past. Maybe he wanted to join the CSSD and we didn't accept him. I wouldn't blame you. But why am I reacting to what he said? My colleague Okamura said that he's some guy who's every weekend, maybe a day, maybe every hour when he's not sitting here, among people. And social democracy that he's doing some sort of salon policy, unlike Vice-President Okamura. Well, I'd just like to invite him to tell his MP, who I don't even know his name for the Pardubice Region, it's like the story of the baton out of the bag! - the morning of which the world has not seen - the MP for the SPD for the Pardubice Region, whom the world, or at least the Pardubice Region, did not see, to start walking among people just as Mr Okamura did. Because I am the MP elected for the Pardubice Region. When the action is, for example, and I am viewed by my colleague Ferjenčík or Mrs Matušovská, with the governor of the Pardubice Region, where once, twice, three times a year the legislators of the election for the Pardubický Region meet, and the Member of which I do not even know his name is not there. When there is a meeting with the Road and Motorway Directorate to the state of the road network in the Pardubice Region, R35 etc., there is no Member who I don't even know his name. When the meeting of the Union of Cities and Municipalities and Mayors is behind the Pardubice Region, there is a Member elected for the SPD, who I don't even know his name is. So, Mr Okamura, please, through the Vice-President, don't talk like that. I've got witnesses here, and they're all MPs elected to Pardubice County outside of yours who go out with these people. Your only MP for the SPD doesn't go out with people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u47	Thank you. Vice-President of the Government Jan Hamáček and Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u48	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I can't keep you, but I listened carefully to Mr. Okamura's performance and he won't give it to me. So if Mr. Okamura is suggesting that we get the pension money by pulling our troops out of Afghanistan, that's something I find absolutely scandalous. The SPD is fighting for the security of the Czech Republic with its full mouth, fighting to face international terrorism - and where terrorism is fought, we will flee from there. What a way to ensure the security of the Czech Republic! And I certainly don't talk about what it means and what it is for our soldiers who put their lives on the line every day. That's spit in the face of our soldiers who are putting their lives on the line so we can be safe here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u49	I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. Now Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura with priority rights and then Tomáš Martínek, Hana Aulická, a colleague of Válek and Juránek. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where to start from, basically, because there's been a series of arguments. So perhaps I will start with the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, from the Chairman of the ČSSD, because this is indeed a very desperate argument. Because all you have to do is look behind the lobsters in Austria, which is not a NATO member, and I think they're also trying to ensure their safety. So all you have to do is look not until Afghanistan, just look at Austria, which is also not a NATO member. And I think we all agree that it's a nice country that has some migration issues, and of course it solves them, tries to solve them, but I think it's still a country where we can also learn a lot of things. So that's about the only argument I can make here. I've had more prepared, but I think that's enough, because it's drawing up the argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u51	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now Tomáš Martínek, a colleague of Aulická will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably not worth responding to all the misleading information that fell from the mouth of the SPD. Maybe just for the record, I figured out how much a month's pension would increase. If all these subsidy resources were redistributed, they would be about ten cents each of the pensioners. This is just to see how the relevant discussion of the SPD Members is here. Furthermore, I would like to ask for the support of Amendments B1 and B2. B1 extends the possibility to use the excluded period for parents who care for a child up to the age of nine years when calculating the amount of pension. This is a proposal on which there was agreement on the Commission for Fair Pensions to help resolve situations of disproportionately low pensions for children. Here, I would like to make a slight reference to what the Minister mentioned about the application that every pension seeker will have to ask for when he wants to use it. Yes, that is probably the intention, because ideally the information system should help itself determine the most advantageous - the most advantageous algorithm - the time to take advantage of and not to give the pensioner the most optimal, the highest possible pension and, on the contrary, not to humiliate pensions for those who work and have above average income during this period. Furthermore, Amendment B2 returns the possibility of including part of the duration of the study into the calculation of the pension. Newly it would not be limited by the age of a student at a university, but it would be limited by the total length of the study according to the standard period of the first degree. This amendment could help solve, among other things, the problem of doctoral students. I would also like to look back here on the cost calculation, because I found the costs absolutely disproportionate to what would really be the real effects. In the next 30 years they would theoretically be almost zero, then they would be what they are now, because it still applies until 2009, so those who retire now are de facto not losing any funds. So I thought it was really high, the number that was mentioned. Pirates support raising the standard of living of Czech citizens of all ages, including seniors. I would also like to comment on the amendment A by Mrs Šafránková. At the heart of the matter - raising the lowest pensions - I agree with this amendment. Unfortunately, it is written so technically poorly, at the same time unfairly and probably unconstitutionally, that unfortunately it cannot be supported. The amendment would bring a paradoxical situation in which people who, for example, receive a pension after an increase of 9,900 would add another 900, while people who worked longer or more with a pension, for example 10,100, would not add anything. It would be so absurd that the pensioner mentioned with lower pension credit would now have a pension of 10 800, while a person with more worked flights would remain with a higher average wage... with higher contributions would remain on the pension of 10 100. That would be a strong social injustice, which, moreover, seems to be against constitutional order. Therefore, SPD Members, I ask you not to put forward unconstitutional proposals so that I can vote for them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u53	I thank Mr Martínek. Now, with Mrs Jana Černochová's point of fact, she will prepare her colleague Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I too wanted to respond to Mr Okamura, because perhaps he could learn a little bit and find that Austria is a neutral country and that neutral countries really cannot be part of the alliances. But for your complete information, Mr Okamura, through the Vice-President, Austria is working closely with NATO, working with NATO in the framework of a project called Partnership. By the way, there were 400 soldiers in Kosovo who were there under the NATO flag, so please, before you start sowing wisdom, try reading something to learn something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u55	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and continue with the speech of Mrs Aulická, Mr Vlastimil Válek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this debate. So I had originally wanted to comment on the proposals tabled, and in any case, the debate was very - I do not want to say fruitful, but I think it is necessary to say my opinion. I spoke to some people who are receiving a pension on the weekend, and we talked about how satisfied they are with their pension development and the possible increase that we are discussing today. They say, "Well, since Babiš raises the pensions, we think that happiness is. So I'd just like to say to the O.R., no matter what we try to do, these people are gonna say, "Babiš gave us a raise." But I believe that on the political spectrum, those who all support the increase and perhaps other amendments, so we believe that it is not just the Prime Minister's credit, but that it is, of course, the credit of all political... Or should I tell the representative in the Chamber of Deputies who will raise their hand for it? I would like to say about the SPD proposal. I am very sorry that the performance - Mr Okamura has completed it today - is particularly populist. It must be said that the populism of this proposal is literally clear. It is very difficult to respond to these proposals in the media because, of course, our citizens want to hear: you will get significantly increased, we will help you and so on. But the biggest problem is that almost all the proposals that are submitted from the SPD have no financial cover, are technically not successful and really just falsely and targeted citizens so that they like it and that it is media populist. Therefore, we will not support this proposal either, because, as has been said before, the reasons, it is technically impossible, it is only populist. On the contrary, we agree with the proposal put forward by the government, because, on the contrary, there is an effort to target the lowest... or the lowest pensions, which, unfortunately, we still have in the Czech Republic to a large extent. Of course, KSČM also has its ways of helping these most needed. That means, we can see the way in that double valorization, just for those low pensions to give far faster and more frequent valorization, so that the run of the average pensions would be faster. Unfortunately, of course, we are failing to do this in some way to discuss it and move on, but we believe that our efforts will be successful. Let's see what the final performances on that pension committee are. So I would just like to say for us that, of course, we will vote in favour of this government proposal. We will also abstain from the other amendments, but we will therefore strongly oppose the SPD because I really think that populist, unsolvable matters do not belong in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u57	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. And now, Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mr Stanislav Juránek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I have two comments or two things I'd like to say. The first one relates to the word average. I'm terribly sorry, but I would love to hear the median every time we talk about averages. It was said here that we are not talking about 900 crowns, but that we are talking about an average addition of 200 crowns, because the remaining 700 is based on valorisation, but averages without medians are simply not sufficient information. And now it is not even up to the Minister through the President, but a general request and a comment. If we're talking about averages here, it would be good if we could always hear the median, so that we have a clear idea of what we're talking about. The average is a terribly, terribly misleading term, and even some of the other ministers sitting here know that we have been running into some committees with it. [[11.30 hours]] What is the second point that I would like to mention and say for myself, I will very much support and I will be happy to support the amendment on the introduction of higher education or the inclusion of higher education in pensions. And I'm surprised the support isn't, I'd say, meaty. I was convinced that this Chamber of Deputies, regardless of political affiliation, was trying to support university studies. We're talking about science, research, we're talking about simplifying women as much as possible - and I'm going to remind Dr. Putnová again, and I'm going to be happy to remind her of which was the instigator of the legislative change that allowed the mother to be included in the study. We want women and girls who study to be interested in studying, making it as simple as possible for them to study in college. We want those who have it to have a minimum of obstacles and, on the contrary, it is attractive for them to continue studying. We're not just talking about some long college studies and scientists and researchers, but we're talking about employees, we're talking about Industry 4.0, if I'm saying it right - the Prime Minister would correct me if I'm wrong - which says we're going to need qualified, qualified employees who have a top education. I thought that this was a completely non-political issue and that there was agreement across all sides and across all Members. Since many ministers, many Members, are heard here from different sides, it is said that what is most important is education and an effort to educate. And it seemed like a perfectly logical step and an excellent idea, I thought there'd be applause on the open stage, the suggestion that college studies would be counted as one of the many incentives for young people to be interested in studying in universities. So they'd be interested. On the contrary, we will seek further ways to simplify and enable them to study. And now I'm surprised that's not the case. I think it's just a misunderstanding and a misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u59	I thank Mr Válek. A real point, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u60	Thank you. Only in response to Mr Válek. I mentioned it in my opening words. The median is complex, but basically 90 percent of old-age pensioners receive an overall increase of at least CZK 750. It's very complicated, but 90 percent gets at least 750 crowns. Regarding the second part of your contribution - I agree that education is very important, but I do not think that we should motivate the population to be educated through the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanislav Juránek, the last member of the debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u62	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I would like to thank you for taking this change into account and focusing on the most affected and for taking the first step. So that was the first thing I wanted to say. The second is a comment on the debate that was here concerning the SPD proposal. This proposal would be very good, it would go in the right direction if it were CZK 10,000. It was enough to add this one sentence that it could reach the maximum amount of CZK 10,000, and then we would help the worst income. However, this ceiling is not here, and that is why this injustice is happening here. But to be precise and to be fair in these matters, I want to say that this concerns one-tenth of the number of pensioners who will be so unfairly affected, while it would also help a group of those 5% who are most at risk. Finally, I want to say a specific example, namely my wife's example, so that I don't take advantage of someone else, but that this case is really specific and that we can see how women who care about their children are affected in the system and then take care of their parents. My wife took care of her children for a long time, we have three children, so she stayed home three years longer with the kids. When her dad got really sick, she was home with him for two years, and then nine years with her mom. As a result, my wife does not have an average pension, even though she was employed as an economist at the bank. He doesn't even have the 10,000 they're talking about, and he doesn't even have the 8,000. Over 7,000 will only now be reached by this valorization. That means my wife will have some over 7,000 crowns of retirement. But I want to say that there is another merit. As far as children are concerned, it has already been said from one side, or one speech has been made, but I stress that all the studies that dealt with the economic situation in the Czech Republic have referred to the greatest weakness as a lack of children. The second thing, that means investing in children, the one who has and raises children, and we really raised the children with the wife, so he should have some merit. Not in the spirit that it's written in the pension law, but in the way it's stated, in the way it's actually done. And the second thing I want to say to the Commission is that now that we're taking care of within the regions, within the cities, within other non-profit organizations, of people who are seniors in those senior homes and have some kind of custody measure, we're growing up to an average amount - the region from the region is a little bit different - somewhere around 55,000 a month that we spend on them. When someone like my wife takes care of her parents, the state spends 10 to 13 grand somewhere, depending on the situation of the particular senior who wants to be taken care of at home. If he is allowed to do so, he should also have some appreciation for it. Therefore, please, because the Commission is always such an advisory body that this initiative should be handled in a certain way when further searching for a way for a fair distribution and allocation of pensions to those who have very low pensions. Thank you for your attention. I just want to say that I will certainly support this proposal to increase pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u63	I thank Mr Stanislav Juránek. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Roman Sklenák... With priority rights. In that case, Mr Jan Zahradník and then with the priority right of the rapporteur. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u64	Mr Vice-President, I would like to address the Minister through you. I mentioned here an important Czech mathematician of the 19th century, Martin Pokorný, who spent most of his practical life here nearby as director of the Lesser Town Gymnasium, who actually dealt with the issue of pensions 150 years ago. And as perhaps such a show of respect for this important person, I would like to give you the printed article on pension issues 150 years ago. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm sure the Secretary will use it. Now with priority rights rapporteur Roman Sklenák. We are still in the debate. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u66	Thank you for the floor. I could have kept my speech on the final floor, but since it is sometimes blamed that after such a final word it is not possible to respond because there is no debate anymore, so I have come forward now because I want to draw your attention as rapporteur for this press to some of the difficulties of the amendments tabled. I will follow my speech with a factual remark when I said that unfortunately, in the Chamber of Deputies, not only in this press, it becomes such a failure to submit legislatively very imperfect proposals and hard to apply subsequently in practice. I will no longer speak of the amendment by Mrs Šafránková, which has already been made. [[11.40 hours]] However, I must say that Mrs Golasowská amendment has similar imperfections, because if we look at the justification for this amendment, there is only talk of women, mothers, by adding CZK 500 for each child raised to a woman. However, the proposal uses the term raised child. And, of course, if it were approved this way, the 500 a month would belong not only to the mother but also to the father. And I would like to point out that if this proposal had been approved, the budgetary implications would have been CZK 30 billion in the first year. I would also like to point out that this amendment does not count on demonstrating the proposed conditions, i.e. showing the children's upbringing. And I regret to say that Mr Martínek's amendments B1 and B2 are not legislatively perfect either. In Amendment B1, which extends the possibility of applying the excluded period for parents who care for children up to nine years of age, it is for example. completely neglecting the link with the procedural rules that are regulated in the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security. If you want to be specific, it is a link with § 83 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61 5, which is a fundamental problem that would arise at the time of the pension application. Similarly, in the second amendment, which introduces the possibility to calculate part of the duration of the study as a substitute insurance period, there is no consistency. This regulation, in turn, is not reflected in other provisions of the law, in particular in relation to excluded periods pursuant to § 16 para. 4, to the required period of insurance for entitlement to invalidity pension under § 40 para. In the absence of a transitional provision, Section 102 (3) is also applicable. 4 in respect of the previous period of study. So these are the shortcomings of the amendments that I felt the need to draw attention to. But I'm asking for your attention just a little longer, because there's one more thing I want to tell you. It's really loud in here right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u67	I understand, Mr rapporteur. Since this is an important matter, we are at the third reading, I will ask the House for peace so that the rapporteur can finish his speech in the debate so that we do not have to repeat it in the final word. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u68	Yes. The last thing I wanted to say was that, on the basis of what was said here, as I studied the amendments, I turned to the Czech Social Security Administration to express to me what it would mean for them to approve the amendments, because they are the ones who pay the pension and would have to deal with these amendments in practice. So very briefly, in order not to delay, I have all of their comments here, but the conclusion - I quote from their comments: Mrs Šafránková's amendment has not been feasible since January 2020. [[shows]] Amendment B1 of Mr Martínek - it cannot be confirmed that it is feasible, because the proposal is not clearly formulated by legislation. B2 of Mr Martínek - it cannot be confirmed that the requirement is feasible, the proposal is legislatively ambiguous, nor can it be evaluated whether further changes can be introduced into a very complicated system for evaluating periods of study in different periods. And Amendment c by Mrs Golasowská has not been feasible since January 2020. So much for the Czech Social Security Administration, and I am only asking you to take into account what I have said in your decision to support individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u69	Thank you. With a factual point now in the debate, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. And once again, I ask the House for peace. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u70	Thank you for the floor. Let me briefly respond to the rapporteur's speech. It is the second time in this parliamentary term when we are discussing an increase in pensions, and the second time we hear that the Czech Social Security Administration is unable to implement any amendment or will, for example. upper chambers. It seems incredible to me. So we either follow the political will of the House and the Senate, or whether a ministry is capable or unable to administer anything. I am, of course, in favour of the first option. Last year we heard a lot of excuses that the secretary here interpreted, saying that the state was unable to find out who was in retirement for 25 years and who wasn't, because the information system wasn't ready for that. The year he met with the year - Madam Secretary, are we able to find out after that year, or have you done nothing at all? I now hear from Mr Sklenák - I do not blame him, he merely interpreted the opinion of the Czech Social Security Administration, I respect him. But it's the same situation. There is some proposal that may or may not gain political support, and we hear from officials that they are unable to implement it again. That's not the way to do it. I would have expected if they had said - at this point we are not ready for this, we need 12 months, or ten or nine, we propose that we postpone efficiency, for example. Mrs Golasowská amendment of three months or six months. But to flush it down by simply not being possible for technical reasons, I think it's a false approach. And that's it. You have been in charge of this resort for six years as Social Democrats, and after six years we are unable to implement some of the amendments or the will of the legislator. And that's a false procedure. Those officials are supposed to write what it takes to make this proposal feasible when it passes. That's what needs to be done. We don't need news that something's wrong. We need a report on how it goes, how much it costs, how much time it can be realized. Then the debate is rational. Not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A factual remark by the rapporteur and then a priority right by the Minister. [[The Minister is more specific.]] Oh, I took that as a priority right, Madam Secretary, so I'm sorry. Mr rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u72	I have to respond to Mr Stanjura, and I have to stand up for the Czech Social Security Administration. I've only read the résumé, the conclusions, as part of my time savings, and I've made those deadlines. For example, I have read with Mrs Golasowská - the amendment has not been feasible since January 2020. That's exactly what you're talking about. And they clearly write in that statement how much time they need to do it, and that's nothing to criticize them for, because if we realize that it's really necessary to modify the application software, then it takes some time for these steps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u73	Thank you. Now even the secretary had a factual, then a factual Mr...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u74	Thank you. I will also respond to President Stanjura. I mentioned it in my introductory words, President Stanjura probably wasn't here, so I can repeat that. That is exactly what the debate was about, that if we come up with new elements in the law, then the Czech Social Security Administration needs some time to implement them. If the number of children in men has not been followed and the Czech Social Security Administration is able to make 350 000 decisions annually and we are talking about more than a million new decisions here, it is clear that something that will arise in July is not able to ensure the Czech Social Security Administration by 1 January. So that's exactly what my opening-word performance was about. Otherwise, about the debate last year. In fact, we would not have to introduce a new box into the information systems, there would have actually been enough, and I mentioned it last year, if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' apparatus were consulted in the preparation of the amendments, because hundreds, perhaps thousands of officials, would not have been employed to create a new box, but the term that already exists would have been used. And the whole debate was whether a new box would be used on the first day of the first pension payment, or whether it would be retirement. That's what the debate was about. So we could, if the proposal on your part were better prepared - luckily it wasn't approved - save big bureaucratic exercises for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u75	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u76	For the Minister. I have a few passwords that like to use the government, which is a member of eGovernment, eCzech Republic, digitalization, simplification, electronization. Nothing. I have good news for the Minister. I think it is very likely that when we pass this bill to the Senate, that the upper chamber will repeat its proposal from last year, our senators will initiate it. Unlike me, the secretary thinks it's a good thing we didn't raise pensions for those who are 25 years retired. I don't think it's good. I hope that the Czech Social Security Administration and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have used these twelve months to prepare for this proposal, which is over a year old, and that when it comes back from the Senate or with this amendment, which will raise pensions for those who are 20 or 25 years old, that we will not hear the same excuses as last year. I apologize to my colleague Sklenák. I didn't criticize the sentence that they wouldn't be ready from January 1st. I criticized that there wasn't a sentence where they were ready. Since April 1st? Since July 1st? Since October 1st? That's what I miss. That's what I understand. I understand that, for example, if the law comes out in the Collection in September or October, it cannot be on January 1st. That's not what we're discussing at all. I wanted to hear it, and maybe it's in a more detailed report that the Member didn't say here for the sake of time savings, so I ask him to say it, if approved, until the Czech administration is able to prepare it. I would expect that if such a proposal was made that the Ministry and the Czech Social Security Administration would come and alert the Members who advocate it and say: beware, good idea, we are in favour, but we have to change efficiency, because we are unable on 1 January, we propose efficiency a year later, half a year later. That's a constructive approach. It's not like we're gonna blow it off the table and we're not gonna be able to do it on January 1st. I could understand that. But until when are we able to do that? That was my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Madame Maláčová will comment. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u78	It's really only a very short time. If you really are serious about the proposal to increase pensions for those who are at least 25 years old, please use the categories that already exist today and then it can be implemented from 1 January.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u79	Thank you. If no one reports from the scene, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? Not interested. I state the Prime Minister's apology from 11:45 to 13:00 for business reasons. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur to take his place and, as rapporteur for the guarantee committee, to inform us of the voting procedure, to communicate the various amendments, to give us the opinion of the committee, and to ask the Minister for the same thing. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u80	Thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce you to the proposal for a procedure, as recommended by the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy. First, then, we would vote on Amendment c by Mrs Golasowská, then on the amendment under letter A by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. If C were accepted, this proposal would be unvoting. And then B1 and B2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u81	Okay. You heard the draft procedure. No one has any counterproposals, so we can vote for the procedure, in a 37-order vote, which I will begin when I sign you off. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, I will begin voting number 37, which is the approval of the voting procedure. I'm asking who's for the procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 37 of the Member present 171 for 168, against no one, the procedure was approved. We can therefore begin voting on the first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u82	The first proposal is the proposal by Mrs Golasowská - 500 crowns for each child raised. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u83	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've initiated the 38-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 38 out of 173 for 52, against 4, the proposal was not accepted. We can make a second suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u84	The second proposal is the proposal under the letter A by Mrs Šafránková - increasing pensions of less than CZK 10,000 by CZK 900. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u85	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote on order number 39 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 39 of 176 for 29 against 74, the proposal was rejected. We can proceed with the next proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u86	And this is Mr Martínek's proposal B1 - extending the possibility of exercising the excluded period for parents caring for children up to nine years of age. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u87	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started a 40-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 40 of 179 for 56, against 7, the proposal was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u88	This should be the last one under the letter B2 of Mr Martínek - the possibility to count part of the period of study as a substitute period of insurance. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-002-033.u89	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the number 41 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 41 of the 180 present for 43, against 29, the proposal was not accepted. We have exhausted all the amendments. I will read an apology from the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who I already see here, reduces her apology from the original 12 hours until 11.45. We can therefore now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, according to House press 452, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." We will decide in the vote the order number 42, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 42 of the 178 in favour of 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur, and I conclude with paragraph 33. The next item is:
