ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2003 Coll., on the responsibility of young people for unlawful acts and on the judiciary in matters of youth and on the amendment of certain laws (the Law on the judiciary in matters of youth), as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, and Act No. 293/1993 Coll., on the performance of the binding, as amended /house print 299/ - first reading This is the House Press 299 and we are in the first reading which was interrupted on 25. 1. at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek and the rapporteur for the first reading of Helena Válková take the position at the rapporteur's table. Are you interested in opening performances, if any? This is not the case, so we will continue with the interrupted general debate in which these Members came forward: Vice-President Filip was the first one here, but I have information that he has withdrawn his application. So in that case, I'm empty, but Mr. Ondráček. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, rapporteur, colleagues, when you remember, it was not so long ago that we discussed this House of Press, and I said that by this proposal, which I understand, of course, that you, given the fact that this is the implementation of European law, are likely to approve, we are putting the burden on, we are making it difficult, we are adding administrative burdens to police officers. I have suggested that we reject this law. Now I'm willing to say that we're gonna make a motion to re-work, and I'm gonna give you a reason why. Here it has fallen, and now I will speak in particular to my fellow Members from the ANO movement and the Czech Social Democratic Party, who form a coalition and who have accepted the government's programming statement in which they have one of the points of security in that area, and it says: We will reduce the administrative burden of security forces members, they have specifically written police officers. So if you want to cut down on the administrative burden of the cops, you really lower it and don't give them any more lectures, lectures, because -- and I took the liberty of showing you if anyone cares. If you go to the police to give an explanation in any matter, you'll sign together nine sheets of paper, a lesson on which there are nine texts in that cursor. And it's on the official record of filing an explanation under paragraph 158 (6) of the Penal Code, one and a half sheets of that lesson. Lessons for the victim of the crime: 3 sheets. Getting information for the victim of crime: 3 sheets. Confirmation of receipt of instruction: 3 sheets. Confirmation of receipt of instruction: half of page A4. Lessons about providing information in criminal proceedings: another sheet. Together, nine pages of instruction. Nine sheets of instruction, when the official record on half a page describes the person's personal data, which tells or explains to the police, where her personal circumstances are to the point, residence, of course, contacts with her. And then there's nine pages of detailed font 9 text in those cursors that this police officer is essentially supposed to say to the person he's questioning, or that person is supposed to read it before the interrogation begins. Nine pages of text. Does that still feel normal to you? Well, I'm sorry, no. And now, by making up more nonsense, the European Union will instruct persons under the age of 15 or persons under the age of 15 to another maybe one or two pages. Let's agree that this lesson will be given by a person, because each person, the 15-year-old, the youth between the 15th and 18th years of age, but also the person under the age of 15 must have a lawyer, because it is not possible for the criminal proceedings or the proceedings that the police are conducting with him to be without a lawyer. So let's hand this obligation over to the defense attorney who works with the client anyway, not to the police, who already has 9, 10 pages of the text for each interview. Do we really want to push this hard? Sounds like a madhouse to me. It's just that what we're doing here in these lessons is wrong. Nobody knows anything about it. And esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues, government coalitions. You put in the government's programming statement: We will reduce the administrative burden of police officers and get the cops on the streets. So do this and do not add further instruction to them according to the senseless directives of the European Union. Thank you. A motion to re-work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u3	Yes, the proposal has already... This one's new, I mean. I have two note cards here. We apologize to Mrs Ruthová from 16.30 pm due to negotiations in the Senate and Mr Špičák apologizes to us between 16 and 19 pm for family reasons. I now have here, with Mr Feri's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to respond to Mr Ondráček through Mr President. Yes, he's the clash between... or balancing the necessary defenses and instructional duties is a certain evergreen. But I think it is not such a crucial thing that we cannot in any way adjust and deal with this, let us say, to the satisfaction of our colleague Ondráček in the constitutional committee. So I'd take the liberty of making an alternative proposal here, which means if the motion to dismiss that was made last time, or the motion to return to work, doesn't pass by 20 days, so that we can justly and properly pursue it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u5	Excuse me, was that an extension of the deadline? [[Member Feri: Extension to the committees by 20 days.]] Thank you. And now, with the factual remark of Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u6	I will take the liberty of responding to Mr Feri through you, Mr President. It's not to my satisfaction. I don't do the interrogations anymore. It's to satisfy the work of the cops who unfortunately have to deal with the incredible forms and the stacks of paper we're adding to them all the time. And I'm just referring to your government's programming statement, I'm telling you, I didn't trust this government because I criticized the security issues you have in this. And you made a commitment in your programming statement to lower the administration. Then, for God's sake, do something about it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u7	Thank you. At this point, I do not have any further factual points, nor do I have any further applications for the debate, so I could end the debate, but the rapporteur had some proposals, so I do not know if they last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u8	Vice-President, thank you for reminding me. I am putting forward a proposal to shorten the deadline for discussing this press by 30 days in committees. Thank you. 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u9	Thank you. So we have both a proposal for extension and a proposal for shortening. We will vote if necessary, but first I will end the debate if there are no further applications. It's not, so I'm ending the debate. Now there's a chance for final words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will only briefly respond to some of the things that have been said here during the debate. And I assume that the proposal will then be discussed in detail on the committees. Maybe on a time point, and it has to do with the time limit for committee discussions. The D.O.D. here was accused of making the proposal late. I would just like to say here that the proposal was registered in the Chamber of Deputies on 8 October 2018. In principle, the deadline for submission was standard, as is also imposed by the government's methodological guidelines applicable to other proposals. Of course, we may regret the fact that the first reading takes place today, but it is not something that the petitioner could quite effectively influence. This is also linked to the proposal for the adjustment of time limits. Thank you very much for having also made a proposal for shortening, where I will therefore ask for serious consideration of the support for this proposal, given that it is a proposal for implementation. When it comes to debating whether a person who claims to be less than 18 or less than 15 will automatically be regarded as a person who is younger, even though he appears older to us, but will not have evidence to verify her age, it certainly is not. Today, even without explicit adjustment, it would be true that in doubt, if we do not know whether someone is under the age of 18 or under the age of 15, we would still have to regard it as having the hard age, even without explicit adjustment. The fact that we are supplementing the regulation today in accordance with the directive into the legislation is really only in principle a formal, not a material, regulation of the legal state. Let's just remember that we're talking about kids. And there's still a greater risk of putting a 17-year-old in custody between adults and protecting his rights than going the other way and automatically looking at him as an adult. [[16.30 hours]] At the same time, and here, thanks for the proposal to discuss the health committee that verification of that age does not, in principle, constitute a major problem. Of course, if we don't talk about weeks of age difference, we're basically very fast, very quickly able to verify whether or not this person is lying to us. Where it'll be obvious at first sight, if I say I'm 17 years old, there'll be no medical examination. Perhaps then it would take some other medical examination, but certainly not in terms of age. When it comes to instructional duty, it's true again that we're talking about children. There's a 15-year-old boy or a 15-year-old girl standing in front of that law enforcement authority, and even if he may be a thug, we just have to take this age into account. Therefore, the new instructional obligations which, by the way, are explicitly expressed in the directive. So we have to accept them. But we don't mind from the Justice Department's point of view. It may be some slight increase in the administrative burden for the police, but in principle, they will complete the forms they otherwise submit. And it's got meaning, too... The fact that he has a lawyer doesn't matter, because it has meaning, it also matters in terms of the instruction of his legal representative, who can also help him in the proceedings. So that's why the regulation is really going to protect the rights of the kids, the kids we're talking about here, even if they might be villains. For all these reasons... Then there were some reservations about some formulas. Formulation of the type "if appropriate' or "taking into account the degree of reasonable and moral maturity achieved'. Well, those are wordings that are quite common in criminal law. In that law, there are already a number of provisions and practices, as I firmly believe, that he can deal with them. I can state § 20, § 38, I could state further provisions. I am very much asking that the proposal be referred to the next legislative process to be directed to committees, including the Health Committee, where we are prepared, as with other proposals, to provide the maximum possible synergies to explain all the issues of this proposal and to be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u11	I, too, thank you for the final word. I see the rapporteur has an interest in the final word. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I cannot agree, therefore, that we would burden the police by having to explain - here I will allow myself to correct the rather harsh term of children, even if they are bad guys or bad guys. I always say, just like Franz von Liszt said a hundred years ago, when he lectured criminal law at the University of Burgess or Marburg, that children who are delinquent are just an expression of the failure of family and society at 15, 16. So even if they are children who have failed, I think they have the right to be taught far more than adults, but in a reasonable way. I've had a chance to go to the police several times in recent years, and if they throw you that form without explanation and without anything, it doesn't matter if they're lecturing you or not. You will read it, and I believe that it is all the more necessary for children and adolescents to devote themselves to explaining intelligible and understandable to them, their mainly mental development and morally understandable way of explaining what awaits them, what to prepare for, what to watch out for. And often their parents are not taught much either. So here I am following up on what the Minister said. It's also educational for them. And of course, this is not what we had in mind in our program, because we are looking for a young generation. So it's completely inappropriate here to say, "We're gonna take the work of the police" on the example of children and teenagers. I really do not accept that, my dear fellow, through the President. I really don't take the argument that we should be here saving the police work. On the contrary. This is where the police should add, and they should speak clearly, clearly, and it would be good if there were instructions. I mean, that's why this directive, which I think is very useful, has been adopted, because not in all countries, it's quite right. I am also in favour that clearly the reason for shortening the deadline is here. It is a deepening of the rights of the persons who stand trial. We know that if it works, it's the best way to stop their next relapse. So we need this criminal trial to go optimally. He's here, for example. It is not only secured separate accommodation for young people who are prosecuted, when it is necessary even in cases where they have not completed 21 years. It's been 18 years now. We had terrible excesses in detention prisons. I'm not going to report that specifically here, but it's also conclusive, because some 19-year-old kid, when he's given custody, placed in custody with adult recidivists, doesn't often turn out well. I've been dealing with this case recently, or I've had it on the petition committee. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And I think, at the same time, let's say the appeal, so that, where it's a little bit possible, he's doing audiovisual interviews in teens, like a 15-year-old kid, so we can't put it in one of the boxes that we don't really need. This is the improvement of the otherwise good law on the judiciary in matters of youth. So I really don't see the reason why we would have this standard, we haven't really recommended any Eurosceptics at all, because it doesn't hurt, the responsibilities they're introducing to the police are very useful in their result, and they're improving the system that works now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u13	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. The noise in the hall is already so unpleasant that it can hardly be heard. I would ask for peace so that we can hear the news in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u14	And at the same time, I think that even a wider provision of the necessary defense of a minor in cases, even if it turns out that he just needs it, that he doesn't have it, and he's 18, that he's right. Some people can't do it when they're 21. And in most cases, the sharp boundary of 18 years is not quite well separated by those who are already mentally and morally so advanced that they know what is going on in this process and need the necessary defence without them realizing it. It's not mandatory. It's not necessary, a mandatory defense. But the court has the opportunity to do so according to the implementation amendment. So I think it's a beneficial amendment that we're definitely not hurting the police, so that really picked me up a little bit, this argument, and that we should accept it. And given that, for whatever reason, we should implement it sometime, I suspect, by June 2019, yes, by 11. 6. 2019, so I would really like to consider shortening the time limit for discussion. There's nothing complicated about it at all on that aspect of legislative and legal. I don't know what we're gonna do. The only thing they really do is take the police away from something they should be doing right now and they're not doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u15	Thank you, too. I'm gonna call my colleagues in the O.R. because we're gonna vote. Before everyone gets here, I'll read an apology. Mr Kasal apologizes to us between 16.30 and 17.00 for working reasons. If I have noted this well, there have been proposals for a return to recast and a motion for rejection. We will vote in this order. At this point, I welcome colleagues who are coming to the O.R. I don't see a checkout application. [[16.40 hours]] So, I repeat, we will vote first on returning the proposal to the appellant back to work. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 130 vote, 177 Members and Members are enrolled, for 42, against 56. The motion was denied. Next, we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote number 131. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against rejection? Thank you. In the vote number 131, 177 Members and Members are enrolled, for 27, against 68. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anybody, so let's vote. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 132, 179 Members and Members are registered, for 143, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I note that in debate 25. 1. a proposal has been made for a health committee. This is Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u16	In view of what I have been saying, I also propose that the Security Committee also tell us about it by the Police of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-023-038.u17	This is a proposal for a Health and Safety Committee. Are there any other suggestions? It's not like that. I don't know if I can hear cards clicking. It's a check-out request, isn't it? It's not, okay. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's next on the board as the next committee for the Commandment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 133, 180 Members and Members are registered for 62, against 15. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on assigning the Security Committee to the next committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 134, 180 Members and Members are registered, for 106, against 10. The motion was accepted. I'm saying we've assigned it to the Security Committee as the next committee. I did not notice any further suggestions on the commandment of the next committee. We will now deal with proposals that have fallen on the extension or shortening of deadlines. The first is Mr Feri's proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of extending the deadline. Who opposes the extension of the hearing period? Thank you. In the vote number 135, 180 Members and Members are enrolled, for 45, against 58. The application for an extension of 20 days was rejected. There is now a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of shortening the deadline. Who's against shortening the deadline? Thank you. In the vote number 136, 180 Members and Members are registered, for 66, against 43. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The time limit for committee discussions remains standard. We've dealt with this press at this reading. I'm done discussing this point and we're going to move on to the next point. I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant. The next point we have here is
