ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u1	45. Members of Lukáš Kolářík, Olga Richterová, Kateřina Valachová, Jan Hrnčíř and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 295/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 295/1. prosit have Mr Lukáš Kolářík, Mr Lukáš Kolářík, present the proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased to present to you the proposal for an execution order that was created under my baton for nine months, and now after ten months of being uploaded into the system, we can discuss it. This proposal introduces the so-called local jurisdiction of executors. It's the principle of "one debtor equals one executor at the place of residence." [[Noise in the hall.]] The basic principles of the executor's activity are set out in Section 2 of Act No. 120 on bailiffs and execution activities. It says that the executioner performs execution activities independently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I can't really hear you here, even I can't hear you. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u4	So Section 2 of the Enforcement Order states that the executioner carries out the execution activity independently. He is bound only by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, laws, other laws and decisions of the court issued in proceedings for enforcement and enforcement proceedings. It also states that the executioner is obliged to carry out his profession conscientiously and in his performance and in his civil life to refrain from anything that could undermine the dignity of the executioner's profession or endanger confidence in the independent, impartial and fair performance of execution activities. Paragraph 28 of the same law states that the execution is conducted by the executioner, who is designated by the competent authority in the execution proposal and which is registered in the register of executions initiated. There is therefore a situation in which the executor is to be independent and impartial, but he is actually chosen by one party to the dispute, and that is to say, to everything that he is economically dependent on and from which he receives other contracts. The proposal submitted responds to the demand for independence and impartiality by placing the selection of the executor in the hands of a court that decides on the basis of the automatic procedure for determining the executor and, if the compulsory execution is imposed in order, the executor who was designated in the first case automatically receives it. This is precisely the concentration that we would achieve in the future, that one debtor, if he has more executions, will have them with one executor, who will have a 100% overview of his condition. The compulsory burdened debts will have its executor in the place of residence, thereby increasing his chances of solving his life situation effectively. He will not be forced to communicate with more executives at the same time, and often from the other end of the Republic, and a personal visit or repayment of part of the debt in cash will no longer be an insurmountable problem for him. At the same time, the costs of multipliing processes will fall because, if the debtor has more executives, he is multiplying the costs of recovery. As a result, the number of debtors will fall and social costs will be reduced as well. They are often obliged to receive various benefits for life in need and also often escape into the grey or black zones of the economy, so they do not contribute to our common treasury. The Pirate proposal will remove significant barriers in the employment of persons with multiple executions. Thus, employers will not be burdened with communication with many executives and solutions to related problems. This will also put an end to the excess administrative work relating to the employment of persons in execution. When this proposal was made to the government, we received some comments from the Ministry of Justice. We have incorporated these into an amendment that I have prepared, which corrects some legislative technical inaccuracies that we have failed to fine-tune despite the fact that we have been communicating with a lot of experts. [[18.10 hours]] At the same time, this proposal is supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which states in its opinion that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs agrees with the aim of the petitioners to strengthen the impartiality and independence of the executors by entrusting the executions to the competent enforcement court and introducing the principle of "one mandatory - one executioner'. It also states that it recalls the strategy for combating social exclusion for 2016 to 2020, one of which is the one that is identified as debts. According to the material in question and according to the Ministry, this situation is long-term unsustainable. The system is burdening the entire system, significantly reducing the enforcement of claims, increasing the inefficiency of the recovery process and increasing social costs. The above-mentioned material is not at the same time contrary to the Government's June 2018 programme statement, according to which the government will consider the appropriateness and feasibility of alternatives allowing the introduction of the "one debtor - one executioner" principle, the so-called local jurisdiction of executioners or the concentration of all executions against the same mandatory one executioner. At the same time, it says that, as a result of the proposed legislation, the impartiality of the executor and his independence from the legitimate one will be strengthened, as the claims will be assigned to him by the court, so he will not have to actively seek them out and subtend himself to one side, i.e. to the creditors, on whom, as I have already said, he is financially, economically dependent. At the same time, I would like to mention in my opening speech that this proposal has the support of the Executors' Chamber itself, which adopted in 2004 a resolution in which the local jurisdiction of the executors supports. It is also included in the strategy to combat social exclusion, as I have already mentioned, in the Government's programming declaration. At the same time, it is supported by those pre-debted regions that see this as a way out of the problems they face. It also has the support of non-profit organisations in the social field. Here I would like to mention that locality works in some form in almost all European countries except the Netherlands and the Czech Republic. If we accept this proposal, we will be among these advanced European states, and we will make our system truly independent and much more effective. I've already mentioned the benefits, I'll repeat them. Enforcement will increase, because if the costs of debtors that are not multiplied in individual proceedings are reduced, they will be much better able to pay their debts, much faster and more efficiently. It'll make the whole process easier. It's very difficult to communicate today. When I talk to those debtors, they often mention that they don't even understand the paper that comes to them. And if they have four or five executions and want to solve their situation, it is very difficult for them to communicate and arrange the various payment schedules, etc., because they communicate with a large number of executives. At the same time, it will reduce bureaucracy, as I have already said, especially to employers who, when they employ someone in executions today, respond to letters, have so-called synergies, and must respond to all bailiffs if the debtor has more of them, even under the threat of a fine. That would also fall away, because they would continue to communicate with only one of the executors that the debtor would have. Last but not least, it will also save the state, which often also faces these requests for synergies. For example, there's a lot of applications to the cadastral, and if the debtor has six executions, it'll come to the cadastral six times, the application, which I think is completely unnecessary. This proposal is not all-saving, but neither does anyone. More changes would be needed. However, it is such a foundation that we will not move on without and without which we will not clean the execution environment. We have been discussing some form of territoriality for almost ten years in and outside the House. Everything on the subject, I think, has already been said, and now all that remains is to decide. Therefore, I beg you to support this proposal and its release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u5	I thank Mr Kolářík, who has spoken as a representative of the appellants. And we have such a situation that the rapporteur for first reading was designated by Mr Marek Výborný, who is not present. Operatively, Mr Marek Benda, Member of the Constitutional Committee, has succeeded in ensuring that the rapporteur's role is taken up by the President of the Constitutional Committee. But we must approve this change by voting. Again, I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. But there are enough of us here. So we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 167 Members signed in for 133, against no one. We've approved the motion. I ask the rapporteur, Marek Benda, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u6	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am in a bit of a difficult situation because the fact that the rapporteur is not here has been identified ten minutes ago and I am not quite prepared to report this press. However, I would like to make some general comments on this. The question of the territoriality of executors, whatever the nature, whether as proposed in this proposal, let's say, the regional or regional character, the district character, has been addressed for many years. We all know that this is mainly the interest of the Executor Chamber, respectively. the majority in the Executor Chamber, because logically every such measure will redistribute the market and the less successful ones will have more executions, the more successful will have less executions, and of course there are always less successful ones in each community. This means that logically the Executor Chamber comes up with the idea that it would be reasonable to make this redistribution. This was repeatedly discussed at the Ministry, discussed in debates conducted informally between the Constitutional Committee and the Ministry of Justice. We're looking for a solution. I am not saying that the solution proposed by Members cannot ultimately be the result, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government has given a negative opinion in this case. The main reason for this is the fact - then there are other reasons - but the main reason for this is the fact that the execution order is a standard that should really go through a normal legislative process, a normal commentary procedure, normally try to try to discuss it with the Executive Chamber, but also with the execution courts and with a number of other entities involved in this quest for justice, to find some solution where it will prevail to help everyone or most. I'm not so sure about that. I say it myself, and I say it repeatedly, that I think that the redistribution of the market between executives doesn't solve anything at all. We have dealt with many of the problems we have had in executions in recent years, including the costs of the proceedings, their dramatic limitations, all issues relating to commuting and such. Now we have a rather fundamental amendment to the insolvency law, which should allow a number of people who are in multiple executions and mean it honestly and want to get out of it in some way, to go into insolvency proceedings where they have one insolvency administrator who communicates with them and have some chance to sort it out after a while. Therefore, I would be very reluctant to approve at this point, and I would rather, exceptionally, I do not do this too often, but I would rather wait for the government to come up with a proposal that will try to balance everyone's interests in this area, because it seems to me that this is too pro-executor proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open the general debate to which Minister Benešová is reporting. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u8	Thank you. Dear Members, it is one of the possible solutions that the Member has presented here by way of territoriality, but we have not given a favourable opinion on this, I can say for the Ministry of Justice, because it bothers us that this would cause a significant increase in the administrative burden of the courts, due to the obligations imposed on the courts. We have prepared our own proposal, which is currently based on the principle of 'one bailout - one debtor', and currently comments are being incorporated within the Government's Legislative Council and will be decided shortly, in the summer horizon, when we are going to put the proposal into government and into the legislative process. Part of our regulation is the concentration of the proceedings, so the proposal assumes that the concentration of management proceedings against the same mandatory one should be introduced in the case of a judicial executor who leads the proceedings which was initiated against the compulsory one first. Then there is a mandatory advance under this proposal. It provides for an advance payment obligation on the costs of execution and, of course, there is an exemption from the payment of the advance in certain cases. And what's important there is stopping a resultless execution after three years. This is essentially aimed at regulating the number of execution proposals and leads them to consider consistently whether the initiation of enforcement proceedings is economically advantageous for them. Stopping resultsless executions should thus lead to a reduction in the total number of executions. That's about the outline of what the Justice Department is currently preparing. So I would be prodding for a government proposal that we will prepare and which you will have here by autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u9	Thank you, Minister. I have no written application for a debate. Mr Bláha has now made a point of fact. [[There's noise in the room.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of the fact that we have a minister here, and I will remind you of one crucial thing that no one has done for a long time, and that is the administrative burden on all entrepreneurs and companies, which are simply closely linked to the executions. That means that I've been pushing zero burdens for entrepreneurs all along, which means that an entrepreneur can't do things for executors and a judge, which means that the amount to be paid should be set by the court. I propose a fixed fixed amount throughout the repayment period, so that the debtor in question knows: yes, now my income is such, my options are such, so I will pay back ten thousand, and so that the person can earn his extra work as much as he wants. That means somebody needs a hundred thousand, and they're gonna work 24 hours 365 days a year, so they're gonna make a living because that's what their powers are gonna be. We should be able to do that, because today most people in executions are running into a grey economy, which means we're losing money to the state budget. So that's another thing I'd like us to change. Definitely the way of the stickers has long proved to be a path that does not help to do anything, and I stand by the government to prepare a government proposal and we could then, of course, comment on it or supplement it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, the rapporteur. Normal application for discussion, yes, I understand. So there are two factual points that have priority, Mr Veselý and Mr Hrnčíř, in this order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I confess that I originally applied because I wanted to commend Mr Bláha for finally being right about something. Yes, executions are a huge burden for entrepreneurs. Mr. Colleague, I'd like to sign for that. But the second part, fixing the fixed amount for the entire execution, you proved your incompetence. Imagine how you said you were going to give someone a ten grand execution because he's got some income, and then he's gonna lose that income and he's not gonna be able to pay it back, that's bullshit. So the other proposal doesn't work. It's a burden for businessmen, you're right, we can look for ways, but it certainly isn't the way to fix one fixed amount all the time. That's just nonsense. The amount must depend on the amount of revenue. And, of course, the discussions tend to go in the direction of not motivating debtors to have higher incomes so that they don't lose more and more of that income by increasing their income, but certainly not by a fixed amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u13	Thank you. Mr Hrnčíř with a factual remark. After that, Mr Bláha, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As co-president of this amendment to the Enforcement Order, I would just like to remind you what the target is. The aim is above all to reduce the costs of execution to those obliged, those debtors who are often trapped in debt, and they are mostly trapped in debt because simply such an execution plant, such large executive offices, which, and I dare say, often thanks to corruption, they deal with a lot of orders from the large creditors, and of course the debtors who are in debt traps, are paying for it. And that's what this amendment to the Enforcement Order is supposed to prevent. I will just say that a similar system has been introduced in Slovakia since 1 April 2017, which means that it has been operating there for two years. The debate before the introduction was similar, of course they resisted it, because it would ruin someone's business, I understand, but the aim is to help debtors. Over the two years in Slovakia, the costs of execution have fallen significantly. That's just a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u15	Thank you. Mr Bláha, a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u16	I must respond to the words that have been said here about incompetence. I employ 200 people, and out of 200 people, believe that there are 60 people stable in executions, so I know what I'm talking about. These people normally have no interest in making money, because the moment they make more money, we take more away from them. It's a simple matter. If I know how much to pay back, and I really want to work and I want to secure my family, I will get the job any time before November 1989, and so after November 1989, all the hardworking people who wanted to get out of their problems or needed more money did. Those people who don't want to earn, or want to admit, don't want to pay back more, so they just sort it out - they get busy at the lowest wage and the rest go to the grey economy, or they run straight into the gray economy. I'm meeting it today and every day. Employee requirements: I want money black, today and every day. It's more and more of what people aren't in the labour market, so more and more people want money black. So a fixed, constant amount will solve this, believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u17	Thank you. Mr Benda will now speak in the debate, Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we return this proposal to the appellants for work or work. I don't think it's supposed to be discussed that we're really supposed to wait for a government novel. Only to what was said here, the experience from Slovakia. We may have different sources, but the experiences are not - they are portrayed positively by representatives of the executor's chamber there, they are portrayed positively, that is true. Other experience from other entities that I have from Slovakia is rather that everything stopped there and that there was no decision-making. So I think we should evaluate these things much more comprehensively and not just listen to what one professional group tells us. I always find that very dangerous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u19	With a factual remark, Mr Feri. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u20	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. I don't think it's entirely appropriate to return it to work, because it really means, and it happened with some of our proposals, de facto, the death of the proposal. I am not a big fan of one particular institute that brings this proposal, i.e. wheels, or a guaranteed idea of things for individual executive authorities. But I think we should measure the whole thing and assess it in some interrelationship. So to wait for this proposal, I propose that it be voted on in a procedural manner, and I would like it to be voted now, so that we interrupt this proposal until the Ministry presents its own proposal, and then we merged the debate to do so. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u21	Yes, I understand. The procedural proposal was made to interrupt the discussion of this point until the Ministry of Justice submitted its own proposal. I have summoned all Members who are not present. We will now vote on the interruption. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 28, 167 Members registered, for 95, against 39. The proposal was adopted and the House decided that this item would be interrupted until the Ministry of Justice submitted its own proposal. I am done discussing this point and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u22	Have a good evening. Before I read the apologies, the President of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u23	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised that the ODS and TOP 09 have joined the government to do something that is typically promoted by government voting machines, that is, to wait for the government to submit its bill, and all the more so, that it is in a matter where the government itself has written to us that the government is aware of the need to address the issue of the enforcement of their legislation and intends to do so. That is why the Ministry of Justice is finishing up and submitting a bill to the government this quarter, which will address the most pressing problems of execution following the government's programming declaration. The only problem with this government statement is that we sent her the proposal last October. So that calendar quarter, when the government promised to submit it, expired at the end of 2018. Since then, there has been no proposal to address the issue of execution. And you left the 800,000 people in the lurch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u24	President Okamura with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by Mr Feri here from TOP 09 is, of course, the proposal of the executor mafia or some executors, because I made exactly the same proposal here in the House four years ago. This means that the ČSSD coalition, ANO and KDU-ČSL, voted on the proposal four years ago here in the House, and even with support, I do not remember, apparently the ODS, was rejected. This means that you are saying here, let's wait for the government coalition YES and ČSSD to propose this - I know you haven't been to the House for the last term - that's a real laugh, because they're never gonna make it. The government coalitions of the ANO and the ČSSD movement are voting against the territoriality and they have already voted, they have already shown it in the vote here in the House. Even the suggestion, if I remember it, went all the way to the third reading. Yeah. No. This one was at first reading. Odds. We were denied interest at third reading. That means, that's just what I wanted to say about your proposal that it's really unrealistic, and maybe you know about it, maybe not. So a proposal for the territoriality of executors, of course, is a good suggestion. I would just point out, because I was writing about it in the explanatory memorandum at the time, he is valid in most countries of the European Union. I do not know if the ANO movement knows, if the CSSD knows, the local jurisdiction of executors is valid in most countries of the European Union. This means that they can't sell receivables, so that the ideas are basically falling like a wheelbarrow to individual bailiffs and that some large executor houses can't just choose the lucrative ones and pulverize the debtors completely to the bone. This is the monstrous system that the politicians of ČSSD and KDU-ČSL have just co-created, namely Mr Koudelka of ČSSD created the execution order. That is, this is exactly where the vote turned out, and here we are really in the same boat with the pirát, that they're essentially proposing exactly the same thing that we've already proposed, literally on the same boat, but not pirate. So what I wanted to say is that whoever voted against who is putting this proposal off, I want to say frankly that this is equal to supporting the current system of executors. And let's face it, this is the government coalition of the ANO, the CSSD movement, for example, the ODS and others. I'm gonna look at the stunt exactly who voted in favour. And from now on, I know they're the ones that support the executor system, and they're against helping people in debt traps. I also wanted to say that we have already parked here for several months the SPD proposal to pay first the principal of the debt and then the fees. It's the other way around today. That means these people can never get out of a debt trap. At the same time, we have a bill where we cancel interest rates. Again - for my well-known and understandable reason - the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and with the support of the KSČM is blocking us. That means you're just on the executor's side, you're against helping people in debt traps. It's just that, and it needs to be clearly named. We also have a proposal for an SPD to put an end to the loan shark interest. Again, as with this area of executives, this is true even in most countries of the European Union. Most of the European Union's Member States have been ceilinged by the interest rates of the RPSN precisely in order to avoid usury interest. And once again, you, your government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, are blocking this, and this proposal is holding us back. That means I wanted to come out and put it in context, not just the whole problem of executors, people in debt traps. We have a full package of laws prepared for the SPD here. The local jurisdiction, as I said, we didn't propose it during this parliamentary term because we've already proposed the exact same thing in the last parliamentary term, and you've already rejected it for us. So I would like to call again on the government coalition of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement to stop really blocking these proposals and finally support our proposals that help people in debt traps. It's really disgusting what you're doing here. On the one hand, your Prime Minister says he wants to help these people here, but when it comes to breaking bread and voting, you do the exact opposite. And I hope your Prime Minister doesn't tell the papers that I'm lying when I say exactly how you vote. We're gonna make a very good note of this vote of yours in the SPD. And if we publish another paper, we'll, of course, put you on the board of shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u26	I'd just like to remind everyone, because there's information on the board that we're at that point, and some of you are reporting, we've ended the discussion of paragraph 45 by the House's decision to interrupt it. We're at point 46 before we open. Mr Bartoš will now speak with priority rights. No one other than the one who has the priority right can perform now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u27	Good evening. I'd just like to respond, too, so I've applied since... But it doesn't matter. I volunteered earlier. I just wanted to say one thing. Looks like the preparation of this amendment to the order of execution was some sort of stuffed thing written on the knee. We dealt with this relatively in a wide range of experts who represented not only individual debtors, but also people from executors, they were lawyers. And for quite a long time we also had this proposal in public commentary, as we do with our proposals practically since we came to the House. So this isn't some semi-finished product that we're gonna cut off here, that we copied it from somewhere. And it really addresses the three most important aspects. And what I'm most sorry about is that everyone talked about it in the last campaign, that Members and party chairmen and people who have the opportunity to comment on it in the media are moved by the situation where we have 90 thousand seniors who have their pensions lined up because of the executions, when the executions just keep coming together, and then we're actually waiting for something that the government really has in its programming statement, which everyone records as a problem involving 900 thousand people. And now we had an exchange at the minister's post, virtually. Madam Secretary's here, so I don't suppose she's jumping into any kind of an ongoing trial. And we're gonna wait another quarter, six months, if anything happens? [[18.40 hours]] The design simply has clear contours, it is communicated and, of course, the parameters in it could be changed as part of the discussions between readings. And this opportunity has not been made possible, and I just see at least a little hypocrisy in it, and please, if anyone goes, asked to go to the media to engage in a debate on execution, so please don't make it a drama about how you care about these people, because this situation was a topic of elections, it was even a topic of municipal elections, and no one really wanted to do anything about it until now. And another thing. This is where we talked about how we're trying, or how the government will suddenly try to reach out to the smaller businessmen. And this problem is also a bureaucratic problem for the person who employs the people on whom the executions are purchased, because at that moment you are not communicating with one executor about one of your employees, but because the executions are being sold and dealt with from different places of the Republic, so the people who are in charge of the payroll in the company, or even the personnel department, simply solves, like, five, six, ten different agencies or executors who have the person in charge. So if we wanted to make things a little bit easier again - and of course this will also be a problem for large employers - entrepreneurs, it was precisely the association of executions under one executor, so that communication would be guided only in one direction. The fact that it reduces the costs on that side of another, even from those charges, is obvious. We've added calculations, explained how that principle should work, and I'm really sorry that it's being postponed to one I don't see. And Jakub Michálek was doing the right thing here, and I was waiting for the ironic point to come, because we're really waiting for this law from the election, because the subject has been highlighted as urgent and urgent because it involves so many people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u28	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Mihola, because there is no chairman or vice-chairman of the club, so they agreed that Mr Mihola will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u29	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say no for the KDU-ČSL club about what happened here just now. It's just scandalous that we're here, on the one hand, to be moved, as in the serious matter of execution, which is written about so much, as we want to help terribly, how it's done, and then here they did such - I don't know whether fatal mistakes or alibis, or what it is, or intent. I really, really don't know who he is. I say critically to the last government, for the last parliamentary term, there was also a situation that some important laws were binding, so we also helped as government MPs when we prepared the parliamentary proposal and pushed it so that we forced the relevant minister to do so. Suddenly it all went well, things moved forward, the debate merged, that's the easiest thing then here, and the thing managed to move forward. I don't know why it's stuck at this point and who's interested. It's wrong, it's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u30	Thank you. With priority rights Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip, if no one has applied now. Please, Mr. Vice-President. And vice-chairman of the CSSD Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u31	Thank you. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, the members of the government, you know, maybe this is a grateful subject for someone, a subject they are moving on, and for others this is a matter of fundamental importance. In the last parliamentary term, I proposed an amendment to the order of execution, had 56 points and solved the most fundamental problems. It was rejected at first reading. So we can understand each other. Because it didn't just contain the populist suggestions that there would be some kind of localization and that it would solve something. The order of execution is simply one of the laws that harm citizens rather than suit them. And we cannot make any law for anyone who works in that profession, but we always do it for the citizens of the Czech Republic. And so far, all these novels are rather narrow, that they only affect a certain segment, which is as if it's visible to the media. That's not possible. No way. And it's not a question of the left-right vision of the society. It is a question of how the law is conceived and whether it serves citizens to - first of all - address the issue of the debt, that is, the legitimate one, and how the position is addressed, the question of the debtor's position. And it's not possible to do that in a very narrow part of the law. That's gonna need some kind of revision. I have great skepticism about this bill, but I have no reason not to discuss it. I am convinced that we can pass the law into second reading, but I am convinced that it will not resolve the situation. Perhaps it would be best to go back to the process and create, in a way, room for us to take a seminar to do this, hear the current situations that are at the Justice Department in that matter, find out how many executions, those who do not want to deal with private bailiffs, how many they have to deal with in county courts, the bailiffs, because it's not a small part, and it only solves the uninteresting ones. But that too is a question of what we can or cannot do. And I believe that the discussion on this bill makes sense when we agree that we want to make a fundamental revision of the enforcement procedure in the Czech Republic. And they felt that the mediator - to describe correctly what I think about the bailiff - was able to perceive the position of both of them between the creditor and the debtor. It's nothing simple, it's nothing that we could do without amendment of laws other than the order of execution, especially the Civil Code, at least the law of courts and judges alike, so here we would probably see a situation that, after finding the right to deal with the situation of the two parties at issue. And I am convinced - I am not putting the motion back in order to say that I am now going to make a proposal, a procedural proposal to return the proposal to recast, but let us consider that if we let it go to second reading, what we will have to do to make this law work, so that 10,5 million citizens of the Czech Republic really serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u32	Thank you. I would just like to point out, Mr Vice-President, that we have already interrupted the vote on the proposal, so even the procedural proposals for return and so on are no longer up to date. So I just wanted to say you're pulling out. The chairman of the Jakub Michálek MP's club. Now I have two apologies. Because it's almost nineteen o'clock, so, Mr. Ambassador, just wait and see if we can still read it. Between 18.30 and 19.00, Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes because of his illness and between 18.30 and 19.00, Mr Jan Farský apologizes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u33	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues, what President Filip was talking about might make sense if they told us when the government would present the specific proposal because it did not meet its previous deadline. It only sounds like another false promise. And I am very sorry about the Czech left, too, because if we look at what stage social democracy has gotten to by the big party that won the election, here we have a party that has 3.9 percent in the election... Why did she get there? Well, she got there precisely because four of her people in this crucial vote on the regional powers of executors are going to stand up against the people they represent, and they're voting to delay the whole thing, and we were able to sort this out here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And why is he doing exactly the same way as KSČM? Because, again, instead of taking a clear stand here for the interests of their voters, citizens of the Czech Republic, and solving the problem that 800,000 citizens are dealing with here, so that they are active in this and they make a solution, not that the only attempt that has been made - to do something about this ridiculous situation today - will be blocked. And that's what happened here today. And we need to be straight with each other. And if this goes on like this, it's logical that they're just gonna keep sucking the votes of the other political parties on the left. I'm just asking you, colleagues, to really consider whether this is the direction you want to continue because I'm gonna miss you later. Some of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u34	I don't have another application. I do. So the chairman of the ČSSD MP Mr Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u35	So good for the evening, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to respond to the two sides that are now sailing on the same ship as he said, or according to Mr Okamura, they are sailing on the same ship in this matter. I do not wish the pirát to sail in the same boat with the SPD Tomio Okamura, but nothing against it. As for the pirát, I just spoke to the secretary, and I asked her about it. There's a real commitment here, even if I say so, that this will be the proposal by autumn at the latest. That means the proposal presented by Minister Benešová, and before that was the proposal made by Minister Kněžínek, he should deal with the matter in some way. Whether it's the right solution or not, it's up to you. You'll evaluate it when the government proposal comes in. But the commitment that the first reading will take place at the latest in the fall, I think I can put it on my own. And the secretary told me that by the end of the fall, it really should be. And then I will turn to yours, through Vice-President Okamura, actually speaking to him, those are your fellow passengers from that one ship in this case. Well, we have already met with Vice-President Okamura on this subject through Vice-President Okamura several times. [[He's laughing.]] Every time we meet on Barrandov on Mr. Soukup's show, there's a lot of talk about executions and execution law, weirdo, loans. And I wanted to draw your attention, Mr Vice-President of the House of Okamura, for the tenth time, and I will not mention that you have a man in your own MP's club who, unlike everyone else, I believe, out of 199 Members of others, from any other party, to the usury you want to limit by law... who fed on usury. That means you have a colleague here who offered $5,000 loans with an interest rate of 20 percent, but not an annual interest rate, but a monthly one. This means that the RPSN was 791 percent, and that is 40 times what you propose in a law that wants to limit usury. So please, Vice-President Okamura, don't get out or try not to get on the subject, because you always have your mouth full - full of mouths, sorry, full of mouths, but at the same time you have loan sharks in your club. Does anyone else here within the Chamber of Deputies have a loan shark in their club? I don't know about that. So, Mr President, please don't comment on this again. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u36	Thank you. I was about to call on you to speak politely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but you have corrected yourself. There. Now I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else... Chairman of Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u37	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to ask for a brief supplement, given that the proposal was already due in the autumn, so I want to ask you in the autumn of which year it is due to be submitted. A point No 2 is that despite the fact that colleagues from the SPD, and although I disagree with them in a substantial part of the matter at all, so despite the fact that they have loan sharks among them, at least they are able to vote to implement regional executions. And you're not capable of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-007-045.u38	There. Is there any more interest in the show? It's not. So let's open another point. This is about
