ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 259/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws, and Act No. 92/2018 Coll., amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /house print 204/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please take the floor. Mr Olga Richter will represent Mr Olga Richterová for the apologized rapporteur, Lukáš Kolářík. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the situation in the House press No. 204 has occurred, let me begin by saying that the content of the bill is now outdated, and therefore I will not justify it or explain it in more detail. Let me just remind you that the original purpose of the bill was to abolish the legislation on electronic incapacity contained in Act No. 259/2017 Coll., which was to take effect from 1 January 2019. Therefore, the effectiveness of the Law was also proposed on 31 December 2018. However, the discussion of the bill had a considerable time slip and the first reading was not completed until November 2nd of last year. In the meantime, there was Law No. 335/2018 Coll. shifted the effectiveness of the regulation of electronic incapacity contained in Act No. 259/2017 Coll. one year, that's January 1, 2020. At the same time, I would like to remind you that my predecessor proposed to shift efficiency by two years, i.e. on 1 January 2021. Therefore, the introduction of a fully functional electronic failure is expected from 1 January 2020, which will be used for its introduction already approved but still ineffective regulation under Act No. 259/2017 Sb., which however will require some modification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can express herself. Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u4	Thank you. From this list it is clear that the creation of an eIncompetent in recent years is at least complicated. According to the Prime Minister's assignment and in an attempt to hasten eIncapacity not only by that one year, i.e. from January 1, 2021 to the full version of the eIncapacity for January 1, 2020, we have proceeded to introduce the eIncapacity for two phases. This means that the full one is to work on 1 January 2020, a year earlier than originally intended, and at the same time we want it to work on 1 July 2019. What it really means, I'd like to explain. From 1 July this year, the aim is to introduce a mandatory electronic form of reporting to the treating physician and to end the temporary incapacity for work administered by the district social security administration. Furthermore, we would like to reduce the time limits within which the attending doctor sends this decision from three working days after the date of its recognition to one working day and extend the range of data that sickness insurance authorities can communicate to employers about the temporary disability of their employees. Two options will also be introduced as to how doctors can expose them electronically, either through specialised medical software or through the web application of ePortal of the Czech Social Security Administration, which will be free of charge for doctors. I'd be happy to explain. From 1 January 2020, the final phase of the project eIncapacity will be introduced. To visualize this means that it will be e.g. introduced a new, only three-part electronic incapacity form Decision on temporary incapacity for work. For employers, the ePortal service of the Czech Social Security Administration will be extended by further information on the temporary incapacity of the employee, and employers will be notified to their data boxes. On the part of my department, the legislation means that the Czech Social Security Administration will provide employers with information about the temporary disability of their employees without delay. So, honourable Members, I would like to sum up the current situation by means of House Press No. 204 is outdated in the presented version of this development and it is that we want to introduce a full eIncapacity one year earlier, i.e. As of 1 January 2020, and at the same time by the introduction of the first stage, we are working to ensure that part of these functions are in place by the middle of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u5	That was Madam Secretary. I'll read one apology. I hereby apologize to Mr Václav Klaus, Jr., from the sitting today from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 204/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee Olga Richterová, who will represent the apologized rapporteur, Lukáš Kolářík, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, my intelligence report will be quite brief, but I think some of the data contained in it is quite remarkable after all. House printing No. 204 was discussed by our Social Policy Guarantee Committee at the 22nd meeting of 22 November 2018. There we adopted the following resolution that the Committee on Social Policy recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to express its disagreement with the Government's draft law, which is being amended by this House's press. Furthermore, the Committee empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Assembly of Deputies. There is then a resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic, resolution No. 151 of 4 March this year, and in this resolution, the government agrees to withdraw this government bill. In this resolution no. 151 of 4 March was also entrusted to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to withdraw the proposal. However, and this actually happened a week later, on 11 March, the government again withdrew its resolution on withdrawal by Resolution No. 178. So much for a brief overview of what has happened so far. I don't think it even needs another comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u7	Thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which I have several entries. So, as I first call on Mr Marek Novák to prepare Mr Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the House document that I have put into the system under number 2398. This is a comprehensive amendment to the press. In fact, part of the House's 333 press is included in this proposal mainly because it is not certain whether the press will be able to discuss it in time. This is so that there will be no implementation problems after its publication in the 333 print. As far as fundamental changes are concerned, it is both the first and second stages of eIncapacity, and in a nutshell I can say that the eight-day period, which has been discussed here for a long time in some way, is being discussed, so that the employer is actually waiting for up to eight days today. These eight days are actually solved for a time limit without delay, which means in the context of electronic communication immediately, and of course the efficiency as such is treated so that the first stage is started simultaneously with the effectiveness of the quarantine period, i.e. from 1. 7. 2019, and then there was enough time for the second stage. I'm prepared to answer any questions. I would also like to point out that, in a detailed debate, I will put forward a proposal to shorten the deadline between the second and third readings of the Guarantee Committee to seven days. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u9	Next in line - I will ask Mr. Jan Bauer to speak and Mr. Petr Pávek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that there is a great deal of chaos on the issue of introducing a full-fledged eIncompetent person into the Czech rule of law. I confess that I have never seen more chaos, and I must say that I do not want to be critical not only of the government, but not only of the government, but also of the Minister himself in this chaos really overcomes himself. I would like to start by presenting my amendment, which was inserted into the system under number 2381, and, of course, in a detailed debate, I will then sign up for this amendment. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the Government's promise given personally by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is respected, at the same time as the abolition of the so-called "Prime Minister'. A functional electronic disability will be introduced. Whatever you think of it, it is evident that neither the government nor Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is able to keep that promise. It is for this reason that I propose my amendment, which is prepared in three variants, and basically every option means delaying the effectiveness of the abolition of the period of the cardinal period with regard to Act No. 32/2019 Sb., and of course in all variants it is a displacement. I, of course, give this first of all to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and, of course, also to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrea Babiš, peace of mind for the preparation of quality legislation, and certainly not for electronic incapacity to be introduced into Czech legislation in this chaotic way. We have heard the introductory report here at the beginning of this point, as the legislation actually developed, from the mouth of Minister Maláčová, so allow me to summarize this perhaps in a slightly different way. I tried to write this really very humanely, because it's not worth it for me to overwhelm you on Friday afternoon with some details or specific texts of bills. In the last parliamentary term, the government passed a law with the help of a government Member, which it subsequently could not bring to life, and so it sent to Parliament a law that would abolish the original law. Unfortunately, it turned out that the interfering law would not be adopted in time, so the government Member passed an amendment to another law under discussion in the autumn, which had postponed the original law in time. In the meantime, however, the government has sent another law to Parliament which improves the very original law, but not quite enough, and so now the government Members are proposing how to improve it once more, but surprisingly not through changes in the proposed improvement law, but through changes in the repealing law, which they were originally to reject, because after the withdrawal of the entire original law, this has become completely unnecessary. And in order not to be enough, the proposals from the Government Members are complex and there are two in the system at the moment. I feel that, as only Mr Novák entered into the debate, the original one, which was presented at the beginning of this week by Mrs Maxová, is unlikely to be loaded. The Government and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have simply made Parliament a pigeon and I am afraid that the only consequence of this legislative chaos will be the incompetent, who will be disturbed or changed again in a year. I would like to make use of § 90 para. 3 and I hereby submit a proposal for a return to the guarantee committee to discuss this draft law. I would also like to say, for the members of the Social Committee, but especially for the members of the Economic Committee, that the reality is that the Act on the introduction of electronic incapacity under the House press 333 has basically deboned, and this House press number 204 is used as a carrier of this deboning. In practice, this will mean that, although the Chamber's press 333 has been interrupted at the meeting of the Economic Committee and the Social Committee, if a comprehensive amendment is loaded today, no members of the Economic Committee, no members of the Social Committee will be able to comment on this proposal, they will simply vote yes or no, and of course they will not be able to submit any amendments in any way. That's just unimaginable to me, and it's unacceptable to me. Okay, I understand that the Chamber of Deputies is going around, the members of the Economic Committee are going around, but also the Social Committee, it happens here sometimes, but what is unbelievable, and I want to ask you this through the President's office, if it is, too, because I assume that Mr Novák's parliamentary proposal has been made in the context and in cooperation with the Ministry, if it would also be polite to ask those who will be involved in the finals, these are the practical doctors who have long been calling on their civil discontent, because they will in no way be able to express themselves about it, either take it or take it. That's how it's built. To conclude, if you want, honourable members or colleagues from the government coalition this summer, make it impossible for the Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam, then let it go. I understand if you want to embarrass him. The law cannot be fully prepared in its version from 1 July. I am prepared and believe that the Senate will be very reasonable and that this proposal will be returned, and I am convinced that the time for sufficient preparation, for implementation, especially in relation to practical doctors will be insufficient and that chaos will actually occur in the Czech health care sector, especially in the case of practitioners. And last but not least, if you really want to send Czech health care in general into great chaos, because this will undoubtedly cause confusion, please release this proposal further into the next reading. I would ask you very much for this reason to consider in which direction the practical introduction of a full-fledged eIncompetent woman will be introduced into the Czech legal order and to comply with my proposal to return this proposal to the guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am, of course, reflecting on your proposal, which we will vote on after the general debate. Then I have one factual point, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please, your two minutes. And Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself in general. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u12	Thank you for your word. I want to respond. Yesterday there was a meeting of the chairmen of the medical chambers of the district associations in the Břevnov Monastery - and a long debate, I was a member. After four and a half hours, one of the conclusions is that doctors want an electronic disability. They're for it. And they're very inclined to work. But - and the question mark is that it must be very good and comfortable for them. Anything but a name, surname, etc., will put in its diagnosis of the doctor who diagnoses something and the date of initiation of the incompetence. They don't want anything to do with it anymore. In such a form, doctors will support across. And it doesn't just have to be practicals, as mentioned here, but also outpatient specialists, in short, all those who give incompetents. I mean, I just want to make it clear that doctors are incompetent, but they must be comfortable, comfortable, and simply not burdening the entire ambulance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u13	Another with de facto, virtually. so far, the only one, Mr. Petr Bauer. Please. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u14	I am Honza Bauer, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[I'm sorry.]] But that's okay. As a matter of fact. I would like to thank my predecessor, and I would like to hear from here and from this place that not only myself but also the Civil Democratic Party has always supported and supported the full implementation of electronic incapacity. We can totally agree on that. Of course, we support quality legislation. Not the one that is ready and which, in my opinion, will only lead to chaos in Czech health care this summer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u15	There. I'm sorry again. Thank you. Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mr Petr Pávek, will be prepared by Mrs Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I admire colleague Bauer for the picky dictionary he has given criticism of this bill. I've got a lot to hold on to so I don't choose another dictionary. Have you ever seen the introduction of the plaintiff and minister, in this case, the Minister of Commons Maláčová, to present such a complex amendment to the law in so few sentences, without any argument, without any interpretation, without any content? Unbelievable! What happened here, and what my predecessor Jan Bauer has already described here, is that the bill has simply been deboned during the last week, the House Press 333, which is actually, even though it was in the middle of committee discussions, so suddenly there is nothing to discuss because it has just been deboned. He got into Parliament's Press 204, which we are discussing right now. That's absolutely unheard of. It's just, I... Through the President, Madam Secretary, you are completely out of control. Something like that just isn't possible at all. You can't do things like that around here. And that's what I'm talking about as a supporter of an eneschopenka. Definitely. As I speak for myself, I speak for our club. We are clearly supporting an incompetent person. I mean, we agreed here that the cancellation of the Karen's period would be accompanied by a functional electronic disability. You said that part of the function will work from the middle of the year. Can I ask you which part? You mean the paper transfers? You're not even ready for this at the Ministry. The Czech Social Security Administration is not prepared for this either, they are not prepared for it by doctors. There's no one in this shape prepared for it at all. What kind of politics is that? Don't be mad at me, it's an incredibly insolence and an incredible pascula you took the liberty of presenting here! I will, of course, support the amendments that have been tabled and postpone that deadline if this ever happens. And, of course, I will join in and propose to the entire Chamber of Deputies to return the entire press to discuss the Organising Committee, as proposed in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u17	Thank you. You meant the guarantee committee. And I just wanted to remind you that under the Rules of Procedure, you can address the ministers directly. You don't have to address me through this. Members need to be addressed through me. There. Now, with Mrs Valachová's point of fact, Minister Maláčová, then Mr Veselý, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u18	I dare to respond to some of my previous speakers. I don't think words like chaos, off the chain, or anything like that are appropriate. If I listened well to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, she just repeated what this House has heard several times. The Department of Labour wants to introduce a functional e-Clerk as soon as possible. There's a political consensus. And you must have heard here repeatedly in the past months that we will proceed gradually, part of January 1st, part of the 1st. 7. And the full functionality of the eIncompetent on 1 January 2020, which is a year before the previous delay, which the opposition rightly criticised. I understand that questions may arise on both the coalition and opposition Members' side, but I will ask for the correctness of the debate. And, no doubt, the Minister will respond very closely, particularly in the context of the guarantee committee, and I believe that we will find the consensus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u19	There. Now I'll read two apologies. Minister Richard Brabec, Minister of the Environment, apologizes from now until the end of the day for working reasons and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip apologizes from 12.15 to the end of the day from today's meeting. In addition, the Minister withdrew the facts, so I will invite Mr Petr Pávek to take action and prepare Mr Ondřej Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u20	Thank you for the floor. A short line to my colleague Valachová. Have you heard anything from me about the government, about the opposition, about social democracy, about the coalition? No. You know why not? Because this isn't politics for me, this is about the functioning of this country for me. That's why I didn't use it. And my criticism and my accusations are directed purely towards Minister Maláčová, and I don't give a damn what party she's here for, because eneschopenka just doesn't have the E.O. ready, she's not capable of really letting her go. And all we really don't need is to add more paperwork and extend our deadlines. No matter what form this place goes through, if those... So you don't have to relate to your club. It wasn't meant to be like that. It's just a personal failure of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs. Maláčová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u21	Now with Mr Ondřej Veselý in fact. Mr Jan Bauer, then Minister Maláčová and then Mrs Valachová. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to call on my colleague Petr Pávek to distinguish the disagreement with something or doubts from some personal animosity, because this is how the performance sounded. I evened out Honza Bauer's performance because I know his name, and yours. You both disagreed with how it looked and how it was going. But his performance was correct. Yours wasn't correct. Please, let's be gentlemen. You called the lady, act like this. I know you're capable of doing this, so next time, please, let us put and lead the debate in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u23	There. Mr Jan Bauer - Honza Bauer, yes. So it's your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u24	Let me just briefly respond to the words of my previous speaker, Mrs Valachová. You said we would... or Madam Secretary will have a proper discussion on the guarantee committee. I'd just like to set you straight, that you're very wrong. eeneschopenka is properly discussed on the Guarantee Committee and on the Economic Committee, where it was assigned within the House of Press 333. Both the press were interrupted on both the Economic Committee and the Social Committee. There's plenty of room to discuss. There were even reasonable proposals to modify this House's press, and we had sufficient room for second reading in cooperation with the Minister to submit our amendments. You've done an incredible thing. The unbelievable fact that the House press, which is interrupted, you have bare bones, you have put it into the amendment under House press No. 204, which is at second reading, and this makes it impossible for any discussion you are discussing here, which you are calling so terribly for both the Economic Committee and the Social Committee, because it will only be voted on this or another amendment. Just so you know, you're fundamentally wrong. And it is all the more unbelievable that this House press number 204 is supposed to mean calling off an incompetent. In the original version, it means to call off and cancel an e-Cancellation, or at least a significant part of it. That's the tragedy of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u25	Now with the de facto Minister Maláčová. So your two minutes, please. Mrs Valachová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u26	Thank you. I'd turn against the claim that we don't have it to 1. 7. Ready. On the contrary, we have two options. The first option is existing, it is an existing ePortal service that has existed since 2010, and for this option the doctor needs three things: computer and specific software, then he needs an electronic signature and thirdly he needs a printer. If I have to briefly describe it, the doctor who intends to start using this service will appear at the district administration, provide his electronic signature for registration, receive an identifier under which the report of the occurrence and termination of temporary incapacity is subsequently sent from his software in the form of a data sentence, etc. The second option is a free variant for doctors without the need to purchase software and register electronic signature by the Czech administration. It will be created in addition to the existing service by a simple interactive form, which will allow doctors to confirm the existence of temporary work inability to send electronically a data box or electronic signature. And for this variant, the doctor needs a computer with Internet, logically, electronic signature or data box. The electronic signature is for eRecipe purposes, the data box is now available to large providers as legal entities. And, of course, a printer. I am very happy to describe these other technical procedures in other contributions. So I'm resisting the claim that we're not ready for this. It's ready for 1. 7. and we need legislation to do this so that doctors have a duty to 1. 7. Report temporary incapacity for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u27	Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mr David Kasal and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be ready. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u28	I thank Mr Bauer for his clarification in terms of the procedure, respectively. the fate of the two prints, as described in the relevant committees, however, the reason for my factual point was the main one. I wanted to turn against statements that sounded unpleasantly to my ears. I think that they were unnecessaryly personal and neglected the fact that the fact that the inability of an eneschopenka person was gradually invading was publicly known to this House and was indeed presented in this way in the past months to the House. The second is the question of political professional considerations. I agree that this must not be a policy, with my colleague Pávek, through you, Mr President, but nevertheless it is our common matter, but I believe that as far as we are in tune here, and it is important here to honestly admit that it is not just the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it is, of course, a sensitive matter towards health workers, not bene after we have repeatedly addressed the eRecept as the House here, we all remember it, I understand it, but it is a professional thing, and I have just referred to the fact that we will certainly have room for committees on these matters, and we will discuss them within the Guarantee Committee. That's all I wanted to say in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u29	I now call for a factual remark from Mr David Kasal. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to the Minister's words. The two variations that were said here, I would say only one. Forget about the first option. If you want doctors to have their signature on the electronic recipe and their signature on the special software on the Czech Social Security Administration, forget about it. We already have bureaucracy up to here. [[shows]] And if it's going to work in any way - I'm going to speak for the doctors in the hospitals, we have the software - so it should be compatible with one click, and if I have the patient there, I'm going to click on it and it's going to go all out, but we're not going to do anything special else. And it should be agreed because otherwise it will collapse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u31	With another de facto chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u32	I don't think there's actually a professional debate going on with the problems of Karen's age and the lack of skills that everyone's calling for. I think the arguments of those who draw attention to the risks are much stronger than those who have it as their political agenda. I respect the political agenda, but to fulfill some political agenda, it must also give some expertise, it must prepare something here, it must work. I would recommend to the Minister that he sit down one day, choose a doctor in his office, and spend the morning with him. Then let him explain how to just jump in here to the news office, the mail office, the printer, how easy it's gonna be. Let him listen to the opinions of the practitioners. It's nice at the ČSSD convention to applaud as much as we all want, but then you talk to practical doctors and you find that life is much more complicated. And we completely forgot about employers, like we're forgetting patients here. Every time a doctor spends on paperwork is at the expense of a patient. We don't talk about that. We're talking flagships, need of protection, I'm still hearing the 19th century, the employer is mean, ugly to his employees. The truth is exactly the opposite. I wouldn't have to tell the secretary, but if she triggers something, it won't go well. I could remind you of the practice of our government so I wouldn't just criticize this government. I had to deal with a non-functioning vehicle register, which is softwarely against this trivial issue. Believe me, it's a lot easier, it's just a record, and you've got about real time when I overdo it, maybe 400 participants who join. I'm sure we have more than 400 practical doctors and other doctors. But there's just no professional debate going on here, it's purely political.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u33	Now I have four apologies. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes until the end of the day from 13.30 for health reasons, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes from 12.30 until the end of the day, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologises from 12.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons and Mrs Květa Matušovská apologises from 12.30 until the end of the day for personal reasons. With a point of fact, there is one application so far, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u34	Good day, Mr President, Honored House, Government, I would like to ask Mr Stanjura, through the President, if I have understood his speech correctly, that you do not want to introduce an incompetent person against this. That's how I understood the performance. Second point. Incapacity has nothing to do with Karen's time. These are two different things that are not subject to, I said so on the committee, the condition of the introduction of an e-Clerk, it was the Prime Minister's condition, it was a condition YES, we are trying to fulfil it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u35	Now, with a factual remark, the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, so far, the final application for the deed. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u36	So I don't believe in passion on Friday, I'm gonna swallow my favorite note. If I wanted to say it, I'd say... [[He's insinuating without words. Laughs in the hall.]] Reading one, understanding the text in five, since I've already started. For Mrs Gajdůšková, through the Vice-President. You really didn't understand. I really don't. I think it's deliberate. But okay, I don't know what's worse, whether intentionally or unintentionally. I was very clear about that. My colleague, Vice-Chairman of the Social Committee Jan Bauer, who specializes in this within the framework of our club, which presents the relevant proposals here, has made it quite clear that our club strongly supports the functioning project of eIncompetents. So how can you conclude that we're against it? I don't get it at all. Just because I criticized that the project wasn't ready? I understand. I could turn your words around. I will not, but if I want to act like you, Madame Vice-President, I will say: they don't care if it works, as long as they make a point that they set it off. I don't get it. You're not aware of the risks, we're alerting you to the risks. But translating from Czech to Czech makes it really awkward for me when you hear the opinion of the entire MP's club interpreted by the person in charge of it professionally. [[12.40 hours]] But if you want to hear this one more time, especially for Mrs GajdůGajdůšková: Civil Democrats support the project - and now I will underline it - working eIncompetents. And tying those two things to the Karen age wasn't made up by the opposition, it was your prime minister. Your prime minister said there wouldn't be a cancellation until the e-Cancellation Project works. We didn't make that up. So if you have any complaints, you know where the Office of the Government is, you know where the Prime Minister's office is, and complain there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u37	So we will now return to the general debate. Mrs Pekarová, I will ask you to speak, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will begin by saying, especially for Members of Social Democracy, that I will say that TOP 09 also supports eIncompetents, but a functioning system, not what we are witnessing here. So once again - we support electronization in all spheres, both in health and social administration and in other areas, and we think that this should have been the case already in 2019. It is completely undignified that patients, doctors, employers, all face the individual parts of that paper disability. We really support incompetents as such. Of course, a fundamental problem, and we have pointed it out here, both at the counter and in the committees, many times when discussing these prints, that the system is simply poorly prepared and that it is currently a risk to run it. And now we are witnessing incredible situations where I am not going to repeat the very well-executed list, as my colleagues have said before me, but it just shows that the government can't deal with it, it doesn't know how to deal with it. And the system, as it presents individual proposals to us here, then changes them with amendments, so it really brings chaos. And I don't consider that word disrespectful. I don't know if we're feeling any emotional on Friday afternoons, but I think the word chaos really suits how it all goes, and it's very fitting. The original intention of this House press, the 204 press, which we are discussing here, was to abolish eIncompetent legislation, and, if you recall, in the explanatory memorandum, as we discussed here in previous readings, so we also quoted, it also mentions that there is a problem with the fact that eIncompetent was introduced so that it failed, for example. sufficient commentary that the RIA report has not been prepared for it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u39	I will ask you to remain calm so that the Member may speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u40	Thank you. And we actually have a 19-page amendment here or in our systems, which is exactly the same thing that is being criticized here in the government's proposal itself. This means that this proposal, which we then already have the opportunity to accept or not accept on the guarantee committee, or recommend its acceptance, whether I am completely accurate, does not really stand a chance of discussing, let alone having a commentary procedure for it, without RIA, so that we know the consequences of how it will be in the system, virtually. in the practice then really work. So I want to ask not only the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but also the Minister of Health here - I am glad that he is here, I have to appreciate it, so I would like to hear him say it - how, according to the Ministry of Health, the system is prepared, how it will turn out to the doctors, if he is on the side of the concerns that the doctors express, not only the doctors here among us, whom we also have a few, and they have already expressed themselves, but indeed the association of doctors, as expressed by practical doctors and other groups, because it is absolutely crucial. If this system starts to work somehow from 1 July - and I fear that it will be really with big problems and complications - then let us be aware that this is a summer holiday period, it is a holiday period, it is also a health care period that is certainly more difficult in this regard, and I wonder how you think it will come into practice and how doctors will be able to cope with it. I must certainly reject the repeated words, we have heard them on the Committee on Social Policy since Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, that they are not related to this proposal, virtually. an eneschopenka, with a card period and a cancellation. That has been said many times. I must say that it was one of our demands as an opposition, so that the time of the card is not abolished precisely without the link with the better functioning of reporting incompetence for simplifying the control, for its more flexible and faster functioning. I also want to join the proposal, which has already been mentioned here by colleague Bauer, in order to really return the proposal to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation in accordance with Section 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I think that this is the minimum that we can demand at the moment, and it is quite appropriate that we discuss such a comprehensive proposal, a comprehensive amendment that substantially changes all the existing wording of this bill to the press 204. If you just want to cause a really big mess, if I can't use the word chaos because it's no longer allowed, the mess in the system, then go on like this. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't gonna do any good. I'm afraid that's not what we want, and so let's act accordingly, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u41	That was Mrs Pekarová. Now I have an apology here, Mr. Jiří Mihola apologizes until the end of the day for personal reasons. So, another in the general debate, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, will be prepared by Mr Pavel Juříček. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u42	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, the debate that has been going on here today towards the mandatory introduction of an electronic disability, is, of course, following up on a whole series of discussions that we have led to this problem here. I have to say, I have prepared a similar time tour as my esteemed colleague Jan Bauer, perhaps with a bit of poisonous and cynical remarks. I'm not gonna do it, I have to say, it's more about the facts. So at the beginning of the KDU-ČSL club, maybe it will also be obligatory, I will say that KDU-ČSL is a great fan of the electronicisation of public administration and other institutions, including health care. The KDU-ČSL Club clearly supports the introduction of a functional electronic disability, which will be friendly to those who will work with those electronic incompetents, which are especially health professionals, but also, of course, ČSSS officials as well as employers. Unfortunately, I am convinced that the current proposal that we are discussing at second reading today - and it has already been said many times here, what all the peripetia legislation on eIncompetents has passed - so I am convinced that this press, as it is ready, even with the amendments that are, and again are hot because they have changed during this week, so I am deeply convinced that if we do not discuss it again in the guarantee committee, we will actually prepare a time bomb especially for health care. And as has already been said here, unfortunately, it will still be in the most critical period of vacation time. I'm an active paramedic, and I'm glad my colleague David Kasal has already performed here. I'll just maybe fill it in. Indeed, just as this supposedly simple solution was prepared here towards those doctors who administer temporary incapacity for work, that is certainly not the case. It's not as simple as the secretary here introduced it and presented it. It should also be noted that the administration of temporary incapacity for work under current legislation is no longer limited to practical doctors. They are the largest group, but today the large group also includes outpatient specialists and hospital doctors, both in the care of the bed and in the outpatient facilities. Today, the attending physician is responsible for the administration of temporary incapacity for work. This means that the problem is not only on the part of the practitioners, but the Association of Practice Doctors has clearly taken a negative stance on this, even so far - and we do not remember this for a long time - that they have also declared possible civil disobedience. Now I'm going to say discontent. And I am convinced that as the administration in the medical community is really getting more and more ready to apply this statement in practice. [[12.50 hours]] I think -- and again, this isn't about word-telling, and it's not about any personal antipathy towards the secretary, not at all. This is what I'm heading towards the government and the government coalition. Even here in the galleys, it is said that the government coalition at the moment is unclear on how to deal with this problem. And I think that the problem occurred when a political statement was made here, a political commitment that the introduction of an eIncompetent girl would be linked to the abolition of the Karen age. No one forced this government to do that. That was her statement with the Prime Minister's mouth. Under the circumstances, we have come to the situation in which we are at the moment. I am deeply convinced that we are able to introduce eIncompetents when we exert all our forces, fully implement and put into practice from 1. 1. 2020. I'm convinced you can make it. But make it from 1. 7th of this year, when we know that it is today 15th of March, we must finish the third reading in the House, even with shorter periods, it will not be until the beginning of April or the end of March, followed by the Senate, when today the senators announce that they will return this draft back to the Chamber of Deputies... So we are really able to achieve this if even the House overrules the Senate's refusal, now I'm just assuming, but from the timeline, we are able to get the law into the Collection of Laws at the end of May this year, in the most optimistic scenario. So what are we loading on our paramedics? That they'd have four or five weeks to prepare a real solution? Do we really think this is responsible? And that everyone with great enthusiasm is going to start putting this into practice? In my opinion, we are actually messing with the health community, but also with the health of patients, because those health professionals have to treat first. And if we introduce them to another and another frustration - I feel sorry for the Minister of Health now, Adam Vojtěch, we sometimes have some disputes, but here I think he will be innocent when he deals with the crisis in the Czech health sector in the summer months. And I think talking about collapse or chaos doesn't really matter. It's just that the project isn't ready to go from 1. 7. Even in a gradual rush, it worked. And then I want to ask you why the gradual rush. Why are we gonna make this even more difficult for the paramedics? Why aren't we able to agree on a complete solution, even six months longer? This really is such a huge problem to introduce it from 1. 1. in the so-called Full fire, to make it work, and to avoid the possible negatives that are obviously here, and the professional community repeatedly draws attention to them? I want to ask, politely ask the government to reconsider this. In order to incline to return this draft to the guarantee committee, discuss the issues, then go back to second reading and prepare a law that will deal completely with it. It would be responsible for health professionals, the Czech Social Security Administration, employees and, above all, our citizens. So we support Mr Bauer's proposal to return this draft to the Guarantee Committee, and in the absence of that, I am making a proposal for the KDU-ČSL to reject this amendment at third reading, and I am announcing that we are willing to withdraw this if it is really from the government, and I am taking the government as a whole, with a reasonable approach to this and we can agree on a functional solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u43	Thank you. And now I call on Mr Pavel Juříček in the general debate. So far, you're the last logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let's try to separate form and content. What has already been said here is that a bill has been deboned and it has been inserted into another, it has already been said here that it happens sometimes, so that's the formal side of the matter. Perhaps it was given by the Minister's efforts to speed up the process. But let's try to look at the content of the thing. The whole Czech Republic probably knows that it should have been A first, and that A should have been an eneschopenka. And that was a necessary condition, not enough to cancel the Karen's period. Let's ask ourselves, who is the final customer in the lobby chain? A citizen, an employee...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u45	I'm gonna ask you to calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u46	- doctor and final customer is the entrepreneur respectively. the company that employs the employee. And that incompetent girl actually serves to make sure that the firm knows and can immediately arrange for it to secure its contracts. Finally, when I say this indirectly, in fact, the final customer is the Minister of Finance, and that is tax collection and the Czech Republic itself, and ultimately we are all paid for as Members. And what really happened. First B happened, and now we're discussing whether it's going to be A in some form. I think that sometimes it is necessary to admit that a person makes a mistake and that the mistake has happened here during the previous three or four months, and that is why we should return to this as a whole. I don't mean to say complexly, because I don't like that word either, but look at the fact that if we said that first A, and I'm sorry, except for one of the Members doesn't know that, and she was an incompetent, it was a condition, and that's just how the political decision was to cancel the quarantine period, so, of course, so that we entrepreneurs could do the jobs at all, and that's how the state budget ended up, so we can't make as radical a mistake as it looks right now that we could. So it is necessary to admit that the mistake has happened, and if we were to be fair, I think that the coalition board could then discuss whether the start of the Karenary period will shift with the eIncapacity in a form that will be functional. And I think that would be the most fair for all parties and especially for entrepreneurs to have at least some sort of control tool to replace those people who, of course, will be missing in the production process and in the work organisation process in some other way. I think this would be the most fair. And if the eneschopenka isn't at 1. 7. as the directors of the Czech Social Insurance Administration finally signaled to me, it was actually on 1. 7. I can't make it, so now I don't know if I can make it, or if I can't make it, both of them, both the director and the deputy, were with me and said that I couldn't make it, so sometimes I need to admit the truth and make the move that would be fair. That means tie up these two things and say a real term that can work. And, doctors, I'm sorry, you're in this process, or in that chain, one of the ingredients, more like a service folder, so obviously you have to treat it this way too. But it is always crucial to see who is the final customer of all our laws and processes, which we are trying to set up in the Czech Republic. One more time. Please, a little wisdom and not ideology and think of the Czech Republic as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u47	Thank you. I have two factual points here. So, Mrs Aulická, just a moment longer. I am the first to call on Mr Jiří Bláha to take action and to prepare Mrs Věra Adámková. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to supplement Mr Juříček's colleague. When the quarantine period was introduced, we lost our disease in companies all over the country to half. The last three years of illness have continued to rise. It's because we had to employ people who didn't want to. And I'm just going to give you an example of the last three Sundays that happened to me to give you an idea. One employee didn't have to take a vacation, so she flew to Brazil and took three weeks of illness. And an employee who doesn't want to work with us today told me that he's been sick since Monday and he's not coming to work anymore. That's how some dishonest employees work. And believe that it is the honest ones who have to work for them who are no longer able to handle it, that the dishonest ones receive money, compensation of leave, compensation of wages for lying by the sea or at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u49	Thank you, too. And next, please, with a factual remark from Mrs Adámková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, and it's known about me that I like electronics, my department is one of the ones most commonly used electronically in the hospital. And here's the thing I'm missing. If we're on duty, of course, but the service that has to write the sick leave, we haven't even seen it yet, we haven't even seen the pilot drive through. And I don't think that's really what he's counting on, even though, of course, that would be possible. Well, I'd really like to see the process that that electronic disability should go to. Because what I saw unofficially, I'm warning you, that's where the employer's mandatory data is. The doctor has no right, I'm warning you, he really doesn't - and I don't even want to watch it, see if this guy reports me to the right employer. It's not my place. I'm not raising any money from him, I'm doing him a favor. And I have to take care of him if he has an appendix or an icterus. And if he says something wrong, it's impossible to check. So I'd really like to see the form, supposedly, electronically, and then we could work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u51	I, too, thank you, and Mr Munzar has also made a point of fact. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to follow up on my colleague Bláha through you. I listened to him very carefully. He set a similar example for the Economic Committee when the cancellation of the Karenary period was being discussed. I just don't understand why colleagues who have such experience - and we have heard those arguments from the President of the Chamber of Commerce directly on the Economic Committee - voted in favour of abolishing the time of the Karen. And the reason that was said there was that the cancellation of the Karenary's period would be linked to a functional e.C.E.O., that the incompetent would be defending against artificial illness. Now we're in a situation where an incompetent person is not functional, and I don't think that's exactly what the claim was when we were discussing the abolition of the quarantine period on the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u53	I, too, thank you, and with another de facto Mr Bláha. I apologize to Mrs Aulická. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u54	Thanks for the reaction. I'm just gonna respond to that, too, so we can hear it again. I supported the abolition of the Karen period for one simple reason. Because I've been employing people for 30 years. And believe me, those employees don't know about it, even though I'm trying to explain it to them. So the fact that they don't get a replacement for the first three days, even the honest guys, they think it's just wrong. Personally, I think we are at a time when we need to change the entire pension and social security system. When it is necessary to tell the honest ones who pay their taxes honestly, the social, health contributions, so that they know that if they work honestly and do everything, they're going to take advantage of it somewhere. To really benefit these people, for example, when they retire or on other occasions. So these are my thoughts, my motives. Because the moment you have 200 people and you know them personally and you're talking to them, you're obviously trying to accommodate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u55	Thank you. That's how we used up the actual notes. So I am, please, Mrs Aulická, who is duly enrolled in the debate. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm gonna be much longer. I think what's said here is enough. I think we're all right from all sides, and I guess we weren't as open as the reality really is. Therefore, allow me - I actually put an amendment into the system during the discussion, which is actually the same as my colleague Mark Novák, and there is one change. The efficiency of eIncompetents has been shifted since 1. 1. 2020. I think that we can all somehow - as I should say openly, or perhaps rather secretly - tell each other what the situation is in the context of the readiness of an incompetent person. That's why I recommend moving it not from 1. 7. but from 1. 1. 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u57	Thank you, too. That was the last application for a general debate at the moment. If no one checks in from the scene... It's not like that. Well, I'll have a general debate... Excuse me, Mr. Bláha still reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u58	I just want to ask you to think about it. It's great that we want to move on. But if we hadn't moved the time of the card. Because really, as it was said here, if it isn't a, it can't be b. Because at that point, it's going to be incredibly chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u59	Thank you. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. The President Stanjura has made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u60	I would like to address Mr Bláha through you. We've already thought about it, we've already written it, it's already in the system. All you and your colleagues have to do is vote for it, and that's that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u61	I thank you for a brief factual remark. At this point, I have once again exhausted both the factual points and the debate. So again, I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking if there is an interest in final words. Is the plaintiff interested in the final word? [[No.]] The rapporteur? [[Yes.]] The rapporteur is interested. So please, rapporteur, on the final word for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u62	Thank you for the floor. Given how extensive the debate was, I'm only allowed to poke out two things. And that, despite all the resolutions that have been taken back here and there, the re-pressing of the inability to introduce an eIncompetent in half form since this summer, everyone here has agreed over and over again that a project of functional, high-quality eIncapacity since 1 January 2020 is realistic. I think this simple fact is something that should be the conclusion of today's debate. The first January 2020, to which the gradual testing of electronic incapacity and no idle promises and futile sufferings of doctors leads to concerns that will occur from 1 July. Indeed, the words about the possible next nail in the coffin of Czech health care are not excessive and it is not quite clear what the desperate attempt to push the deadline for July 1 is based on. Once again, I summarize that the January 1 is realistic. Then one more comment about the debate going on. Basically, what is going on is not only the lack of competence itself, but also that the original Senate press 204, which we are discussing today and which will probably be enriched by many complex amendments, actually interrupted the legislative anchor of the so-called JISPSV, a very important unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, precisely for digitising the key agendas of our state. I would just like to stress that, in fact, the Czech Social Security Administration is very important in this whole operation in the future, and therefore, in a detailed debate, I will also read an amendment by a colleague who is dedicated to the possibility of entrusting the operation of some ČSSS information systems at all. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u63	Thank you. Let's see if we can get to a detailed debate. These were the final words, and now we have a vote on the bill return to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation. I'm hearing an application for a check-out, and I'm calling you up as well. [[Gong.]] Please log in with your cards again. For those who come to the hall, I repeat that we will vote on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. I've already signed off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u64	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of the ANO MP, I ask for five minutes' recess for his meeting. Come on out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u65	Okay. In that case, I am declaring a break until 13:16 a.m. at the request of the A.M. club. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 13.11 to 13.16 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is 1:16 p.m. The recess is over, so we should get back to business. Members of the ANO Club are coming from their break. I don't know if anyone wants to tell us their intentions, but it is time to vote. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out again. Please sign up with your cards. When our numbers are settled, we will vote. Looks like we're all here. So I will repeat - we will vote to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 296. 137 Members and Members are registered, for 65, against 15. The motion was not accepted. I'll wait to see if there's any protests against the outcome, but it doesn't look like we're going to continue. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Members of Novák Marek, Mrs Richterová, Mr Bauer, Mrs Aulická and Mr Kaňkovský, are taking the floor. Please come and read your suggestions or your performances. Mr. Mr. Novák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u66	Thank you for the word...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u67	I'll ask the House for peace. I know it was an exciting vote, but I think we've already moved on for him and we can continue to calm down. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u68	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to House document 2398. This is the amendment that I presented here in the general debate. And here I am making a motion to shorten the time limit for the negotiation of the law in the third reading to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u69	Thank you. Please, Mrs Richterová. Mr Stanjura with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u70	This is completely new information that you want to shorten the deadline for discussion. After all that has been said here, I consider this to be an outrage and we must respond to this situation. Let me take a 45-minute break at the ODS club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-005-005.u71	Thank you. So we have a request for a recess, which I assume no one objects. That would mean we should go back to the hall at 14.05. However, since it is common practice to close at two o'clock on Fridays, I would end today's negotiations. Meet me at a variable week on Tuesday at two o'clock. Have a nice weekend.
