ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u1	42. Proposal by Members Petr Třešňák, Olga Richterová, Petr Pávek and others for the Act amending Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on resort, branch, corporate and other health insurance companies, as amended /house printing 479/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 479/1. prosit would like Mr Petr Třešňák to present the proposal as an applicant - but President Faltýnek is still applying with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I would like to raise the veto on the discussion of this press under Section 90 on behalf of the club YES and social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u3	Yes, we have noted this, and I will ask Mr Petr Třešňák to present this proposal as a plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u4	Have a good evening again. I expected the veto. So once again, my fellow Members, Minister, allow me to follow up on the previous debate, namely the opening words of the Minister at the House press 516, and to state why our parliamentary amendment under the House press number 479 meets the Constitutional Court's conclusions better and makes elections to the administrative boards of employees' health insurance companies more transparent. First, a small recap. I'm really going to try to be brief, because I want to see the press as an execution order today. The branch health insurance companies manage CZK 130 billion in the Czech health care sector. However, unlike the General Health Insurance Corporation, they do not have such clear nominations and elections to managing and supervisory bodies. The method of election to the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board of the General Health Insurance Corporation is known to all of us. We are voting for them here in plenary, so it can be said that all insured people perceive their indirectly elected representatives through the choice of their political party. At the beginning, let me sum up the questions that we have previously asked ourselves about the current legislation and the decree. Who's voting for the board of health insurance companies? Who are those who decide on the amount of 130 billion crowns? Do insurance companies tell anyone who the secret voters are and which companies have the power to influence their management and money flow? These questions logically raised further doubts as to how transparent such choices were and whether there could be any backstage pressures on those large health insurance payers. Because it's important to admit that it's not the company's money, but it's mostly their employees' money that they're taking to health insurance. [[19.00 hours]] Similar questions were probably raised by the aforementioned group of senators who lodged a constitutional complaint and subsequently by the Constitutional Court 30. 9. 2018 stated the unconstitutional nature of the decree and parts of the law and actually confirmed that insured persons do not have representatives in the administrative boards. Subsequently, it postponed its effectiveness to 30. 9. 2019, i.e. until then, the Ministry of Health should have prepared a new solution. And that was why, logically, in our proposal, we proposed a hearing pursuant to § 90. In fact, both amendments respond to the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, but only the MP ensures both passive and active voting rights, because it is useless to run for insured people if they cannot vote at the same time. Although the Ministry has given every insured person the right to run if he gets 50 signatures, such candidates will actually form a kind of stellar infantry in the elections, because voting rights are once again entrusted only to voters. Only those on whom a few of the owners of the largest businesses who now have a real right to vote will be elected. In fact, the Ministry ignores the electoral rights of the vast majority of employees in the government amendment, which will remain entirely theoretical and thus actually discriminates against patients themselves. According to the ministerial proposal, only the person who takes away at least 0,4 percent of the total amount of insurance premiums collected by the insurance company will have a vote, which is a huge barrier that will only be overcome by large companies with thousands of employees. While others will be able to gather together to reach a voice of 0.4 together, it is such a complex process that it is not likely to happen in practice, virtually. certainly does not create a counterweight to the votes of large enterprises. Health insurance companies can therefore be controlled by various oligarchs, and the Ministry has actually arranged for the insurance companies to get under the full control of several persons, i.e. owners of large enterprises, who reach the electoral vote. Who is it now? In fact, the information available shows that they will currently receive the most votes of the foreign banking group in the elections set out in this way for some insurance companies, without specific names. On the other hand, the parliamentary proposal defines not only who are candidates for the management of health insurance companies, but also clearly states that all insured persons over 16 years of age can vote in correspondence and electronic choices. So even that method of choice is already valid for the 21st century. Insurance undertakings must simply be able to participate in their management and control of their finances in this insurance undertaking. To this end, it is necessary to ensure that their representatives are able to reach the health insurance authorities, which is direct representatives of insured persons with a clear mandate and the possibility to influence the direction of insurance undertakings. Health insurance companies will thus be more directed towards the concept of self-governing institutions, such as: regions or universities. In conclusion, I will sum up some of the techniques of the proposal itself and leave it to a possible debate. Three members will continue to be appointed ministries, but twelve members will be directly elected insured persons of this employee insurance company in equal and secret elections of this employee insurance company, by correspondence or electronic option provided by the Czech Statistical Office. Elections to the Board of Directors will take place on the last day of the elections to regional councils. That is all from me at the moment and thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u5	Thank you, too. Good afternoon. And now the MP and the rapporteur for the first reading of Vít Kaňkovský would be given the floor, but before I give him the floor, I will introduce the House to the apologies. Mr Jurečka apologizes to us from today's meeting between 19.30 and the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Koten apologises from 19.00 to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Čižinský apologizes from 18.15 to the end of the day. Mr Pavel Staněk apologises between 19:00 and 23.45 for family reasons, Mrs Matyášová apologizes between 19:00 and midnight because of illness and Mrs Levová from 19:00 to the end of the day for family reasons. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u6	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. As a representative of the petitioners, Mr Třešňák introduced the amendment to the Health Insurance Act on those basic points, so I will try to be brief. Just as the government amendment responds to the proposal for a Constitutional Court finding, as the Minister mentioned here, and seeks to adjust the issue of elections to the bodies of professional and occupational health insurance companies. The fact that the negotiations pursuant to Article 90 (1) of the EC Treaty have been proposed. 2, here also Mr. colleague Třešňák reasoned. It's pretty obvious. If we don't have the rules for the election to employees' health insurance companies today, of course, this thing is in a hurry. Furthermore, I don't want to present the parameters of the amendment in any more detail, and I will mention the Government's position. The Government has discussed this amendment on 10 June 2019 and has taken a disagreeable position on it. The Government's position is quite extensive, I refer in detail to House document 479/1, and here I will only poke out the most important points. Firstly, the government refers to the fact that it presents its alternative to the resolution of elections to the authorities of the departmental and occupational health insurance companies. Here, however, it must be said fairly that the government took the time to present this proposal. I remind you that the government's proposal has arrived in the House 19. 6th of this year, i.e. three quarters of a year after the publication of the Constitutional Court ruling. And here I would like to appreciate the efforts of my colleague Třešňák and other Members to address this serious issue with their own proposal in a situation where the Ministry has delayed its proposal for quite a long time. Secondly, the Government notes that the proposal suffers from factual and legislative deficiencies. For example, they are considered by the government. Insufficient justification for the proposed legislation, the government also criticises the administrative, technical, organisational and financial demands of the amendment. The government also has a presumption that every insured person should be given the right to vote. Thirdly, the government also objects to criteria which, according to the proposal, must be met by a person running for health insurance bodies. Similarly, the government is critical of reducing the age limit allowing the right to vote for 16 years, as well as the clause of at least 4% of insured persons' electoral participation, where, in the event that it is not fulfilled, forced administration will be imposed on the relevant health insurance company. Fourthly, the government mentions some other application problems submitted by the amendments. As rapporteur, I once again note that I appreciate the activities of the petitioners. It is clear that they have done quite a lot with this amendment and that their proposal is a comprehensive proposal. I also want to say, as rapporteur, that the proposed solution is somewhat unconventional, and I can say that I personally like it in some aspects. Nevertheless, I believe that it is impossible to approve the proposal in the form presented in an accelerated regime, which has already been brought to light by ANO and ČSSD, and it is a question which I leave open to whether some of the intentions of the petitioners can be implemented in practice. The Health Committee is proposed as a guarantee committee. As rapporteur, I will propose further discussions in the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-004-042.u7	Thank you, and I ask you to repeat the proposal when we propose.
