ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u1	1. Draft Law on Judicial Interpreters and Judicial Translators / House Print 73/5/ - rejected by the Senate We interrupted the discussion of this proposal in the debate on 10 September at the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by resolution 702. The hearing was suspended for 60 days. The deadline expired on 11 November 2019. I recall that the resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 73/6. I'll ask the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová to take her place at the intelligence table, and Senator Lumír Kantor. Please continue with the adjourned debate. With her position, the Minister signed up with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u2	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, this is a House press that has been rejected in the Senate. It is a draft law on judicial interpreters and translators. It follows the already approved law on experts, expert offices and expert institutes. At present, the problem of interpreters is regulated together with experts in one law. So if there is no approval of the bill on court interpreters, we will have -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u3	I'll cut you off for a while, Madam Secretary. I think the noise level is really excessive. I'm gonna ask everyone to stay calm or move their actions into the lobby. I don't want to name it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u4	Therefore, I repeat once again, if the draft law on judicial interpreters is not approved, we will have a major problem in January 2021, as the original amendment will be abolished and we should not have a new one. In September, I made a commitment here that the Ministry of Justice would provide assistance to Mrs Válková so that a quick amendment to the Act on interpreters could be prepared so that the proposal would be acceptable to most Members and representatives of the professional public. That's what we did. Although this is not a standard procedure for us to amend laws that are not even valid yet, and certainly not effective, we understood the urgency of the situation. I will therefore support the proposal prepared by Mr Válková and Mrs Richterová, as it is in the urgent interest that the law be adopted. In this situation, which I briefly explained, I therefore ask for the support of this proposal, for which we have spent a great deal of time together, including my predecessors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u5	Thank you. I'm asking if the senator is interested in speaking before we continue the adjourned debate. That's right. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Thank you for your acceptance and I will try to justify the rejection of Senate press number 63, the law on judicial interpreters and sworn translators. These were discussed on 2 May 2019 in the Senate and were subsequently rejected. Twenty-six of the 68 senators present voted on the bill on judicial interpreters and translators to reject 52 senators, against 4 senators and 12 senators abstained. [[14.30 hours]] During the Senate legislative process, the senators were treated to a large extent by the professional public and organisations bringing together interpreters and translators, when the prevailing view was strongly opposed to the proposed laws. The basic lack of the Act on interpreters appears to be a simplified parallel of the law on experts and interpreters. An expert is not an interpreter, and vice versa. Each profession has its own specifics. For the current 3,000 interpreters, almost identical law is completely inappropriate mainly for the following reasons. The proposed legal regulation of the profession of a judicial interpreter does not reflect the specifics of interpreting and translation activities. Although the law lays down the conditions for the creation of interpretational permission, it does not regulate further professional growth of interpreters and translators. The possibility to refuse is disproportionately limited. The maximum rates of fines for a disproportionately large list of possible offences are too high. The maximum rates of fines are too high due to the nature of the offence and given that interpreters and translators are natural persons. Only a small part of them have significantly above average income. For example, in the area of so-called small languages, performance is limited to several interpretations or translations per year. For the above reasons, I respectfully ask you in the Chamber of Deputies for the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to support the Senate proposal and therefore to reject your parliamentary press 73 and our Senate 63. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u7	Thank you, Senator. Now it is possible to give room to the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Válková. Since it is the first to be entered in the debate, I am, with permission, opening the suspended debate and the floor of Mrs Válková, Mrs Richterová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u8	I'll connect two in one. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Dear colleagues, this is a relatively interesting situation, because the ambition here is actually to overrule the Senate's veto, because if we fail to do so, I would point out that there would be no law on court interpreters since 1 January 2020, because the one that would have existed until then if we had not adopted the law on judicial experts would have effectively ceased to be valid, or the profession of judicial interpreters would have been very endangered. But, of course, we have committed ourselves on the initiative of Mrs Richterová, who represented the professional public, namely interpreters, that we will do everything we can at the moment when she is approved, or if the Senate veto votes are voted on, that will be the standard, that is, the House press 73, through the amendment that will be submitted, and is already in the system as the House press, I believe, 63, so this amendment will actually be amending the law on which we will vote. Of course, from a legal point of view, this is not possible; from a legislative political point of view, the system has accepted this. And we're not gonna make any legal mistakes, because if we overrule the Senate's veto, there's an embedded amendment proposal, he'll actually come back to life and get into the legislative process. And we, in order to insure that, even with Mrs Richterová, who was very active, and I was just helping her out a little bit, have obtained the consent of the entire political spectrum, I think I will not overdo it, almost all the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, that it could go through 90. Why the '90s? As rapporteur, I would like to say this objectively, in order to enable the Ministry of Justice to obtain the fundamental reform of the competition of things that need to be achieved for the flawless functioning of the new system, not only by experts, but also by interpreters from 1 January 2021, to take these steps as soon as possible. If this were to go through a normal legislative process, they would be in great time constraints, and it would also endanger the system of judicial experts, even though we have already approved the law, because it should be done at the same time, because there is a related amendment law, which we have already approved. So this legal jungle only threatens if we don't vote Senate veto, otherwise we have a novel. Mrs Richterová - I would like to commend her here for making it easier for us to work here in summing up the accompanying letter, which you have all probably received, the most important changes which are the content of the House's press 63, that is, to adjust the amount of sanctions, to abolish the archiving obligation, to extend the possibility of refusing an act for lack of expertise or other serious reasons, greater synergies from the public authorities. She cancelled the obligation to register some commercial fees and, of course, the possibility to add a contact address to the list of interpreters, it is not so important, and the record of offences is not as important. A total of about eight adjustments, five of which are more substantial. And I must say that this seems to be a way of eliminating at least part of the reasons for which the Senate ultimately rejected our proposal. So I hope we have pleasantly surprised him, Mr Senator, by your means, Mr President. [[Ambassador Faltynek is speaking from the bench.]] Okay. In any case, I hope that we have pleasantly surprised not only the Members but also the Senate. As rapporteur, I say that today, however the vote goes, we will close the House press 73, and I believe, now and as co-president of the amendment, which respects the opinion of the professional public, that we will bring it to a level with which interpreters are satisfied, not just Members. It is always important that those whose status and activities are directly affected by the standard that we adopt are satisfied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief in my statement. Basically, I'm going to say one sentence. I, on behalf of our club, confirm what Professor Válková said here that there is a majority agreement between our club, the Pirates Club and other entities so that this law can be quickly adopted under Section 90, as the Senator - Professor - has spoken of it, pardon Helenka, through the President. So I'm begging you, together, to overrule the Senate's veto, and then to remedy the matter this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u11	Thank you. The next is the debate by Mrs Richterová. Mr Martin Baxa apologizes from 16.15 to the end of the day for reasons of work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. In fact, almost everything has been summarized. I would just like to point out that it is appropriate to thank the Senate for slowing down the adoption of the incomplete amendment and that we have been given the opportunity to correct it in this way. I would like to remind you that Jakub Michálek tabled amendments for the pirát, which are now actually being incorporated in the Houses of the Press process 63. So basically, the mission is accomplished. We still have that January, an accelerated approval, as just promised by the President of the Faltýnek MP, at the next meeting. I suppose the only thing that could jeopardize that would be the government's possible fall, and I can't quite imagine that over Christmas. The only thing that is a pity is that it simply failed to discuss it in such a factual way in the preparation of the original law, namely this vomit, this print 73. I would like to point out that, as the press editing was arranged, it was very helpful especially for interpreters from small languages and interpreters of Czech sign language. These are groups that are small, where those possible court interpreters are several on the Republic, and the restrictions that would put the original regulation on them would really be too big. So today we do not like it, but within the framework of the agreement we will raise our hands for the vomit so that then in January we can approve the agreed, agreed remedy by all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-001-001.u13	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I repeat that the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. Kvorum is already properly set, as you can see on the information board. I will, of course, wait, because I see that the number of votes in the hall has not settled yet. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on judicial interpreters and judicial translators according to House press 73/5'. It seems that the number of people present has settled, so I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the resolution. Who's against it? This is a 116 vote, 183 Members present, for 125, against no one. This bill was adopted. Thank you all and end this point. Opening point number
