ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 383/2012 Coll., on the Terms and Conditions for the Trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 483/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, and given that Minister Brabec is absent, the proposal will be made by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! If you have anything to do with this, please be in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to state the Government's bill amending Act No. 383/2012 Coll., on the terms and conditions for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. The reason why the Ministry of the Environment has adopted an amendment to this law is that the European emissions trading system has been revised for the coming period from 2021 to 2030 by a new European directive. The purpose of this European regulation is to make the whole system more efficient so that, through the price of allowances, it motivates participants to invest in low-carbon technologies, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I would remind you that the law we present does not introduce an emission trading system. It has been here for 15 years and its ambitions are set at European level. This amendment allows the Czech Republic to use several flexibilitys available to the Member States. These include, in particular, the modernisation fund, the compensation of indirect costs and the exemption of small installations from emission trading. The modernisation fund is introduced to support investment in projects developing renewable energy sources, increasing energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Approximately half of the modernisation fund is primarily intended for electricity producers included in the EU ETS for that purpose, but other enterprises, households and municipalities may also be eligible beneficiaries. The total amount of funds for the Czech Republic in this fund for the period 2021 to 2030 depends on the price of the allowance. We estimate it to be over 100 billion. Crowns. Another instrument modified by the proposal is the so-called compensation for indirect costs. These are intended for energy-intensive industries that are threatened by foreign competition. They will compensate for the increase in electricity prices as a result of the costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions. According to the proposed wording of the Act, the Government will each year determine the amount, i.e. the total amount of funds available, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade will decide to grant compensation to individual eligible applicants. The proposed amendment also allows for the exemption of small installations with emissions up to 2,500 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year from emissions trading. These installations represent only 0.07 emissions across the whole EU ETS system in the Czech Republic and their exclusion from the system will therefore increase its efficiency, while reducing administrative costs for businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress that this law has proved almost impossible, namely that it contains a compromise between environmental protection, industrial support and impact on the state budget. Therefore, the law was submitted without contradictions from inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. This compromise was very difficult to come up with under difficult negotiations. Each party would like to see some adjustment in its favour, but the compromise balance reached is very fragile and there is no room for significant changes. I appreciate the fact that such a broad compromise has been found, and I therefore ask you to consider this in any consideration on the amendments and these have been as constructive as possible. In this regard, I would like to appreciate the outcome of the discussion of the proposal by the two committees, which, at first reading, was directed to both the Economic Committee and the Committee on the Environment, which both recommended the proposal to be approved in the text presented, as greater intervention would undermine the balance and jeopardise the whole concept of this amendment. This would be a pity especially for such a comprehensive law, which will allow high investment in energy and industry, will bring a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and pollutants and will ensure net revenue from the state budget and support for employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u3	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on the Environment. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 483/1 to 4. I will now ask Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský to take the floor as rapporteur for the economic committee, to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee no. 205 of 4 September 2019 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 383/2012 Coll., on the terms and conditions for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, House press 483. [[Energy law]] Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mrs Berenika Peštová and my intelligence report and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House Press 483 as amended by the Government Bill; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u5	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Dana Balcarová, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal on their committee and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, the resolution adopted on 12 June 2019, in which the members of the Committee on the Environment agreed that they would recommend approving a government amendment in the submitted text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u7	Thank you, Madam President. I am opening a general debate in which we have several applications. Mrs Balcarová is the first to sign up. I'm giving her the floor again, this time to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u8	Thank you for the second time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly discuss this issue, which is wider than just this amendment. The point is, in fact, that ETS has been anchored in the Paris Agreement and it is the strongest instrument for limiting greenhouse gases, whose secondary benefit is that the money that comes from the emission allowance trading system is intended to protect the climate and the environment. This is what I think needs to be pointed out that, with this aim, this system has been designed and, in fact, it has been applied for by the States that have signed up to the Paris Agreement. The Czech Republic has a strategy on how to approach climate change and how to transform its energy industry. A commission was recently set up, a working group called the coal commission, which aims to set the Czech Republic's diversion from fossil fuel dependence. And all of this will need to be financed, and it is ETS that brings resources that are really very - or I would say they are high enough to help start this change. At the same time, our landscape, we are all aware of this, needs the means to implement consistent adaptation measures. Our landscape needs healing, our forests need healing, our land needs healing, so money is definitely needed for adaptation measures. What the Minister of Finance mentioned before me when she said that there was a compromise in the proposal for an amendment on how to divide the money from ETS says that it was a compromise and that it was necessary to think about the Ministry of Finance to make money into the state budget. I strongly disagree. I think that the money from the allowance system should primarily go into climate protection and the environment, as I have already said. The current amendment proposes that the ceiling of money that will go into climate protection and the environment should be 8 billion. The last amendment allowed for the 12 billion, so it was a much higher number. And if we imagine that by 2030 the state budget or the Czech Republic will be 150 to 180 billion. koruna, so we just really have a very big bag of money here that we can use positively for what we need very much right now. I wanted to explain why I'm suggesting that the ceiling stays the same, that it stays on that 12 billion. Because using resources, if we just take it from an environmental fund, that money just needs to be and can be used effectively. Based on the analysis I've had processed, an effective pumping rate of 5.6 to 7.6 billion can be assumed. for the environment. Actually, the second part-- the 12 billion. is going to be divided into two halves. One goes for the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the other goes for the Ministry of the Environment, so in the current amendment it is proposed that it would only be 4 billion. were intended for the environment. So what I want to stress here is that more money is needed, and that's why the ceiling goes against the sense of the need to use funding to combat climate change and adaptation measures. So I'd like to say 3 to 4 billion. They can be used very efficiently annually in the New Green Savings Programme in the area of family houses, 2 to 3 billion. annual for energy-saving renovation of residential buildings and 0.6 billion. There are tens of thousands of boilers within the boiler subsidies to be completed annually for the financing of renovation government buildings and plus in the next three years. So it's an argument for me not to put a ceiling on the use for the environment and the State Environmental Fund at 4 billion, but so that the amount could be up to 6 billion. My next amendment aims at making the money that will be intended for the environment and for the reconstruction of industry, actually adapting to climate change so that at least the setting up of a low-carbon economy and climate-neutral economy takes place, so I actually suggest that the money that will already be allocated to these programmes cannot be transferred to the state budget or somewhere else by any other law. So I'm actually putting it on the spot that this money is going to be used in a system under the State Environmental Fund. The reason for this is that last year, in 2018, when the Ministry of Environment was designated 6 billion from ETS, only 2 billion. 100 were used and the rest was - I don't know what to call it - just stayed in the state budget. [[mil.?]] So it wasn't used. The argument that the investigating capacity of the State Environmental Fund could not absorb it, so I think that the view, or the argument, is very odd because if the State Environmental Fund is unable to use that kind of money, it should increase its capacity. It should strengthen personnelly, as well as in the distribution of the money, it would be necessary to supervise them more so that they are used effectively and transparently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Třešňák is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u10	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give a total of three amendments, including its justifications, to which I will later sign up in a detailed debate. I will start with one that, in my view, has the broadest and most important issue, because the government amendment itself does not take into account the regions most affected by mining, but also other areas on which Directive 87/2003 itself has concentrated. Surely this emission allowance trading is a mechanism linked to carbon dioxide emissions, and it does not really know the borders of regions or national states. But the three coal regions, Ústecký, Karlovarský and Moravian-Silesian regions, are also the most structurally affected. Only the mining, processing and burning of coal alone leave the greatest impact not only on the environment in these regions but also on the region's economy itself, leaving many other negative social impacts. This has already been pointed out by a group of senators in February of this year, and unfortunately, the government has not reflected this in the amendment itself. Minister Schillerová said that the law has long been a compromise and that there is no room for any amendments. I find this argument, with all due respect, Madam Secretary, somewhat odd and so somewhat contempt for the Chamber of Deputies, including those from the government benches, who also now attach amendments. To the above, I have therefore just tabled an amendment originally under 3225, 3332, in the latest version to which I will then sign up, under number 3333, which is currently addressing not only the priority support and higher evaluation of projects towards these coal-fired regions. The long-term structural disadvantages of these regions and the lack of investment in low-emission and sustainable technologies require that further ways be found to support their further development systemically. Among other things, the amendment also explicitly states that the modernisation fund cannot finance the construction of waste incinerators and extends areas outside energy to finance, for example, investments in emission-free transport from this fund. Another amendment, 3226. The modernization fund in the amendment has a directly defined composition of the advisory body of the Minister of Environment, i.e. the council of the Modernization Fund, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. For a long time, the Economic Committee and the Energy Sub-Committee have discussed whether it is necessary to define this firmly in the law. In my first, in this alternative proposal on this subject, I propose extending the Council to 11 members to other bodies and institutions, including three representatives of the Chamber of Deputies, the Association of Regions and others. The second alternative is Amendment 3330, which, on the contrary, completely deletes the provisions on the composition of the board. To my third amendment, which, unlike modernization, i.e. investment, directly addresses operating support for traction transport. And I am actually surprised at the government that it is not looking for possible tools to meet the objectives of the state energy concept, so it should actually support similar proposals. Because the state energy concept approved in 2015 assumes that by 2030 we will significantly reduce the consumption of oil fuels in transport and, on the contrary, increase the use of electricity from 8.6 petajoule to 15.6. Unfortunately, the current development is completely opposite, and the consumption of oil fuels in transport is increasing by 4 percent instead of decreasing. One of the reasons for this is the fact that electricity for transport is burdened by both the payment of the contribution to renewable resources and the payment for emission allowances. Electricity producers fall within the EU ETS area and fuel consumers do not. As a result, these regulatory measures are increasing the price of force energy. At present, transporters have no choice but to project a higher price of electricity into the transport price and thus to demote passengers and transporters from the interest in transport with electric traction. This then leads to a change in the transport market towards hydrocarbon fuels and discrimination against electric traction towards internal combustion engines by paying a contribution to renewable sources at the price of electricity. The proposed amendment therefore consists in supplementing § 7 by a new paragraph which will enable carriers to pay part of the operating loss of the amount of the paid payment for the promotion of renewable energy sources. That is all for me at the moment, and I will then sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Schiller is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately tell the Minister that she has delivered here, or has presented this proposal again in a way that I own, briefly and factually. And I guess, unlike my colleagues, I listened and I was attracted to it, or rather, I was driven by the only thing, and that it was a fragile compromise agreement, when we actually agreed, as if from the environment, and industry. This happens, to say the least, and we should really keep this fragile compromise away. That is why I have also prepared the amendments, but I do not think that it is as crucial as this compromise would have crashed. Unlike my colleague, Mr President, Mr Třešňák, for example, I do not think that we should put this money from emission allowances into some things that deal with the burning and processing of coal, but in any case in my amendment to which I will later sign up in a detailed debate, I have given a sentence that the projects implemented in the regions affected by the decline in coal mining will benefit in the assessment. And that is the big difference that they will only be in these regions, or they should be in these regions, because it can be said that they are congruent to the regions in the reboot that they are, and if we leave there that it would also be in the regions affected by the burning of coal, it could be said that it would then be for the whole Republic, because coal burning is happening everywhere, not only in these regions. I'm from the region, I know there's been a lot of work done, and it would really take more funding to get there, because there's still a lot of work to do. That is why I am making this amendment, where that part really should go where the coal and where the power plants and the mining most harmed. The second amendment is more or less such a technique, where the Ministry of the Environment sort of launched itself to comment on certain things, and it only adds that it exercises the competence of a Member State of the European Union. It shall carry out the climate tasks arising from the European Union's rules applied. The reason is that the Gesture of the Regulation is the Ministry of Industry, but some part of the modified agenda falls under the competence of the Ministry of the Environment, and it can be said that it fell out of this proposal or of this amendment. And by the last amendment, we agree with Mr Třešňák about the modernisation fund, where the proposal will include the creation of the modernisation fund and the establishment will be determined by the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Finance. And I believe that it is not absolutely necessary for the advisory body and its composition to lay down the law directly, and I would leave it purely to the Ministry or the government, which could simply choose this advisory body as needed. So I wouldn't strictly oblige them to be formed by some sort of committee or council style, and we would see exactly the composition. I think those ministries are gonna decide for themselves. This is what I wanted to introduce my three amendments, which I will later apply to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u13	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová is again enrolled in the debate. I'm asking if she's interested in the show or if she said everything during the first performance. He's interested. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention one more of my amendments, which I am aiming precisely at the composition of the Council of the Modernisation Fund, as well as the previous speaker, Mr Schiller. The current proposal is that the Council of the Modernization Fund is composed of five people who are representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In my proposal, in this amendment, I say that it would be appropriate for the Government to appoint this advice, on the basis of transparency and proportionality and the needs that such an institution, which will decide on tens of billions into the Czech industry, should determine such a broader and richer one, as is the case with other institutions, which also decide on smaller money in a larger collective. Indeed, the fact that only three ministries would decide so much money, I think it is problematic, because actually power would be narrowed down to only three ministries at the moment. And we all see that the money that should go to the transformation of the Czech economy and industry is not just about the environment, it is not only about industry, it is also about transport, it is also about health, it is also about social issues, so I think that the committee, the board should be much wider so that all the needs and all the requirements that society will have could apply and be reflected there. So that is why I actually proposed the amendment in which I want the Council to be appointed by the government and not so firmly established in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u15	Thank you. I will ask Mr Zahradník, who is enrolled in the debate, to prepare Mr Čižinský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been acting on this law at first reading. I mentioned something that has not yet been mentioned here, which is why I would like to remind her, and that is the price of the allowance and its increase, which we recorded in the past period actually to five times, and it significantly affected the whole system. We even had to reach into the change in tax laws, we changed the Value Added Tax Act. I also mentioned a thing that is, let's say, more general in nature, and that's what the reason message contained, a reference to Stanford University's research, which says that actually in a situation where there would be predicted climate change and expected, albeit a limited increase in temperature by 2100, so a gross domestic product would increase per capita from 102 percent, i.e. now I'm going to take it very incorrectly, but as if the warming would be beneficial in another respect. But on the other hand, we have different opinions against this view. Now the debate on climate change has spread through the current climate summit in New York and by Greta Thunbergová's speech. And I noticed on our television that one of the expected possibilities is also that the nature of the flow in the Atlantic Ocean would change completely, and it would actually affect the effect of the Golf current, which is warming, or actually maintains the nature of the climate that we have known for centuries and millennia in our country, and the probability of this phenomenon is said by the scientist who entered there as fifty-fifty. So it would be cold in our house. We'd have to find ways to warm up, not to cool down. I would just like to mention one more thing, and that is that, in my view, new technologies need to be addressed. But that's what the funds torn down for the auctions of emission allowances are thinking about. Technical development, technological progress is financed there. We're still just generating electricity by heating water in the boiler, either coal or gas, or a nuclear reaction, and we're running through the turbine, except for wind, water and solar power. So here the promotion of possible new, maybe even fundamentally new ways of extracting energy from matter would be appropriate. One such way of producing heat, energy that is considerate of climate, which promotes centralization, is heating. We have 1.5 million people connected to central heat supply, 40 percent of households, it is 1.5 million households, i.e. 4.5 million inhabitants estimated, and two thirds of the heat plant production is related to cogeneration, so cogeneration is a process that deserves support. It would, of course, make it possible to prevent any disruption of the central heating system. If, by the way, the disintegration of the system by any economic reason, such as by increasing the price of allowances that the heat plants faced about two years ago, would have occurred, the smaller resources generated would have fallen from the EU ETS and fell into the shared effort system, where 60 percent of all emissions belong, and I must say that then the individual small resources would not have contributed too well to the ambitious climate targets that we pushed the European Union to, but also to the global climate alarmism. So my proposal is that I would like us to support the possibility of promoting cogeneration, cogeneration through our heat plants. Now, how I want to do it. In paragraph 7, paragraph 4 following the amendment, the activities which can be financed from the proceeds of auctions are calculated and the various items to which this revenue is assigned are indicated. I suggest that this list should also include support for cogeneration, namely that in paragraph 7, paragraph 4, the words "aid for cogeneration" should be inserted in the list, which would in my view help to maintain a competitive system of central heat supply in our Republic, which is of such great importance. Then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next is Mr Čižinský, Mrs Mračková will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u18	Have a good day, thank you for your word. I might have responded to the previous speaker. This survey from Stanford University, it's just an extension of the GDP growth curve, and there's also a curve as our Earth gets warmer, which means when it goes on, it can't be deduced, of course, that warming is some kind of phenomenon that's positive. As far as GDP is concerned, they just stretched the curve that's increasing, and it's correlated to the curve as the planet gets warmer. But I don't think we can really interpret it as looking forward to the most warming, and then we're going to have the greatest paradise of the economy here, and GDP is going to be the best. That is not really the case, and we were actually talking about it on the committee. The second thing is that, of course, if we're changing the air, and at present, over a hundred years ago, there's a quarter more carbon, so we're just poisoning our own air that we're breathing, and it's a question of how healthy it is for a person to breathe other air than humanity has ever experienced. [[9.50 hours]] But I would like to present my amendment here. It is a proposal which concerns § 7, i.e. the auction of allowances and the use of proceeds from the auction. My point is that it really is not reasonable to reduce the heating costs so dramatically, because a lot of measures are being prepared, a lot of programs. Since 2022, the heating programs will be extended to family houses as well as to government buildings, which means that if we reduce it radically, we are at risk that the economic lever that the heating is, people are willing, the community and the state are willing to invest in the heating when they receive the subsidy, we would not be able to use it because the ceiling would be too strict. So I'm suggesting that it's covered by the amount of 10 billion, so that the words "as amended" are added. I really don't think our economy will be in good shape if we don't use the heat lever as we can use it. It's print 3339.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u19	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Mr Munzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to briefly mention here the amendment which, I dare say, is not only for me, but also for my fellow Members both from the Karlovy Vary Region and the Ústí Region, because you know that these regions are structurally disabled, and it is from the selection of emission allowances that most funds go to the state budget. As has already been said here, the price of the emission allowance increases every year. It is determined by the stock exchange, and in 2017 the price of the emission allowance was 144 CZK, in 2018 it was 399 CZK. Since 2013, income to the state budget has been around 32 billion in emission allowances. and from the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region only last year went to the state budget 8 billion. I would like to say that the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary regions are structurally affected regions, especially by their indicators. They're at their worst in terms of GDP, we're still below 75 percent, I dare say below 65 percent. We have the worst educational structure, we have the largest population drain. And I am also very glad that the Ministry of Regional Development is dealing with this at this point in time with the Restart programme. Despite the constant increase in the price of emission allowances, there is a risk in these regions, particularly in the Karlovy Vary Region, that the decline in mining can come at a much earlier horizon than planned and on what coal reserves are. It will have a huge impact on the region, because today thousands of people are employed there and the region must be prepared for it. The Karlovy Vary Region currently has a so-called coal platform, where it prepares the concept, because the regions must be prepared for any mining downturn and it must be prepared for a controlled process. I also thank Minister Brabco and Minister Havlíček for listening to our words and setting up a coal committee at central level, where all the regions are represented: Karlovarský, Ústecký and Moravskoslezský. Nevertheless, I think that if the coal commission decides in the future about the time horizon when the potential decline in mining in the Czech Republic should occur, and I have made it clear that I am also a member of this coal commission, that it must also be B what will happen to those regions. The process must be prepared and controlled in all areas. That is why I believe that, by leaving not only our regions, the funds are leaving all regions, but to the greatest extent from these two regions, because 50 percent of the funds from emission allowances are now travelling, and it has been said here, the Ministry of Environment in Green Savings for the insulation of buildings, so the second 50 percent goes to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The amendment that I am proposing at the moment is that the other 50 per cent should go to the regions where the funds are leaving, that is, if they leave 2.5 billion. from the Karlovy Vary Region, so it would be 2.5 billion. were to return to the Karlovy Vary Region. This would be supervised by the Ministry of Finance, which would approve individual projects related to restructuring and infrastructure linked to individual regions. That's for my side. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u21	Thank you, Madame. I apologise to Mr Zahradník, who came forward with a point of fact before I gave the floor to the Member. Now he has the opportunity to respond to the debate. After that, another factual point, Mr Pražák. It's probably a mistake. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting a reaction to my incorrect remark on 102 percent of GDP. Mr. Čižinský did it, he responded to it. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to tell Mr Čižinský that I have not acquired knowledge as a well-known climate skeptic by busy surfing the Internet, and that is where I found Stanford University research, and now I am bothering you with him and I am trying to present him to you somehow. The reference, as well as the reference itself, to the fact that GDP per capita increase is part of the explanatory note to this law that we are dealing with here. That's what Minister Brabec presented for us. So the bearer of this information is the most called climate protector and environmental protector, Minister Brabec. So I just took the liberty of interpreting some of his explanatory notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will give the floor to Mr Munzar, who is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Before I present my minor amendment, let me comment on the system as such. You know very well about me, and I said it here at first reading that I am not a supporter of the emission allowances system, not because I would not care about the environment, but because this instrument, which, although it looks like an environmental tool, is in fact an artificial financial derivative that artificially increases the costs of equipment and thus the final price for consumers. And the reason why this is so is that it is directly in the twins of the proposed law, because it is increasing the distribution of money through the state. [[In the lingerie]] If it really is an environmental tool, we can look at the central heat supply already mentioned by my colleague Zahradník, because 40% of households are connected to central heat supply and gradually an artificially increasing price can lead people to start disconnecting from central heat supply, and we can ask ourselves whether it is more environmentally more efficient and economically efficient than central heat supply in each house to have a small decentralized unit for heat production. Of course, it is a question and it is for a longer discussion. Anyway, for me, it's another additional energy taxation. This law shows that there is de facto a new bear that three players in the Czech Republic threw themselves at. It is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of the Environment and also the third player, the Ministry of Finance, who also wants to take his share of the bear into the bottomless state budget. We may have doubts, or someone can be sure that the funds collected in this way will be used efficiently at any moment, but we do not know that today. [[10.00 hours]] For me, this system is also a question of the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, our industry. The emissions trading directive allows so-called compensation for increased costs for energy-intensive industries. And the surrounding states, including very ecological Germany, make the most of it. The proposed law also admits this possibility. And I just hope that the government will also think of competitiveness more than the needs of the bottomless state budget and some of the resources that are inefficiently spent on it. And now for my proposal. As I announced, he's really small, technical, but I think he's pretty important. I was approached by representatives of the energy industry, and I admit it, who drew my attention to one small thing in this law, because in this law there is generally talk of the operator of the so-called equipment. However, an operator of an installation may also be one that is not involved in the emission trading, and these are the small installations, and with a very extensive interpretation of the bill proposed in this way, they could be subject to certain obligations which are only those that are participants in the emission allowance trading, so it could apply to them. Therefore, my proposal merely changes the designation from the "installation operator" to the "Participant of the trading system." From my point of view, it doesn't change anything. It's just a clarification. So this will be my proposal, which I will read in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's keep going. That was Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech. Before I give my word on the factual remarks made by Mrs Balcarová and Mrs Pražák, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jiří Bláha from 10 to 14 hours, and for health reasons, Mr Venhoda apologizes. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the amendment presented here by Mrs Vildumetzová. I am very concerned that such a large amount of money from the emission allowances system would go directly to the regions. We all have experience when big money divides the region, how it can happen. And in this case, as my colleague Mrs Vildumetzová suggests, only the region would decide on these projects and then the Ministry of Finance would approve. That means no independent body that could actually assess the effectiveness of these projects. I think that there are a lot of businesses and companies that can come up with projects that he considers very good and good quality, but this assessment is very important that experts from the Ministry, mainly from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because the money should be used primarily to transform energy, to the economy, to re-cultivate territory after mining, to create new jobs in the affected regions. Of course, that's where the money should go first. That is why the coal commission also has a working group which will specially focus on mining and coal energy for affected regions. So the direction is definitely good that it should go primarily where it is most burdened, but on the other hand the decision-making should be transparent and should be based on the real need. And for the pirát, this is very important that the money that will already flow into our economy should be used transparently and efficiently. And I wanted to mention here that we still have two other funds that we don't talk about much here, and that's the Modernization Fund, which is going primarily to transform the economy. There's the money to go to the regions. Another is the Innovation Fund, which will be decided by the Commission and which the Czech Republic can touch if it presents quality projects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u27	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, with a factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u28	Colleagues, colleagues, I must respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Balcarová, from the Czech Pirate Party. It amazes me very much what she has said here in connection with the fact that Petr Třešňák from the Karlovy Vary Region is sitting in her plenary. And I have to say that if someone here is questioning the list of projects that individual regions will present, if anyone here is questioning that such projects will not be transparent, I have made it clear here that our region has a coal platform set up at the moment and is preparing a clear concept, which it will then fully implement. And if, Mrs Balcarová, through Mr President, you have read the amendment, the final word in terms of the project list would be the Ministry of Finance. And I hope you know what the legislative process in the various departments is. If the Ministry of Finance approves anything, it asks other departments to comment on such material. And please, I would like to say that the Karlovy Vary Region is transparent and wants to proceed transparently. And it amazes me that the Czech Pirate Party here can even say that on a microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Dolínek's point of view now. Mr Jurečka, duly enrolled in the debate, is also expected. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u30	Thank you. Good morning. I have to say, I'm on the side of both the Pirates' colleague and the Governor's. I advocate for myself in the long term, and for the Karlovy Vary Region, where I have the chance to have part of my job as an MP, that it is good that the money goes to the regions where it comes from, because I think that the regions need money not only exactly to the individual municipalities where it may be profitable, but to the whole region. The whole county is burdened. But again, I agree with my colleague at the Pirates that the committee of five officials, with all due respect for the officials, where there are two appointed for industry and trade, two for the environment, and one official for finance, which is an absolutely anonymous committee, which will decide a hundred billion, is not correct. So I just think it's very good here that the money is supposed to go to the county where it comes from, and that committee is supposed to disappear from the law and be replaced by another form, as the fellow pirát have spoken about it. And when we do this penetration, I think that money will go where it belongs, and at the same time it will be decided by experts who have to make decisions about it, not just by officials, with all due respect for officials, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Jurečka's colleague will wait a little longer, with a factual remark Mr. Třešňák came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u32	I will not respond to the previous gunfight, I just want to add to my colleague Dolínek so that we do not mix two things here. The Modernisation Fund, which has been mentioned here before and which I have also mentioned that it should be supported by the regions, has the advice of the five ministers. That's really true. However, the amendment probably, as Mrs Vildumetzová was mentioned, envisages drawing directly from the proceeds of emission allowances, and that is why the Ministry of Finance is there. So we don't mix the proceeds from emission allowances and the Modernization Fund.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We are now continuing the debate by speaking to Mr Marian Jurečka. We still have a general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u34	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, may I begin with two comments on the President. I remember now that my colleague Balcarová here ended up with her de facto over the limit, so I remember how you cut me off for a second, exactly when there was a topic of church restitution, and I had a technical one. So please, let's take all the same subways when you're running meetings. That's the first thing. The second thing - you entertained me with that expectation. I don't know, maybe somebody's got some surprises, but I think we've had enough of home. So much for just a reaction. But seriously now. I am glad that this point has been included here, because not only is this week talking about climate change globally within the framework of the UN summit, but I think that this is really a topic that should interest us all from the left to the right, which is of interest to today's youth who are walking on the streets. And some laugh at these activities. But I think that what these people are pointing out, even in a form that I may sometimes not have to agree with completely, is something that is extremely serious. By the time I get to my point of view of this amendment in second reading, I would just like to mention a few things, because while I'm a professional plant doctor, I studied bioclimatology as an object in my university studies. At that time our professor was Professor Žalud, who today is one of the prominent personalities who is expressing himself on this issue. It also works as a member of an expert team within the Academy of Sciences, the department of the Czech Globe. [[10.10 hours]] I think that what he and his colleagues draw attention to are things that we should take seriously. Because if we look at what the scientific community has been saying, over the last 10,000 years, the increase in greenhouse gas emissions, whether it's nitrous oxide, whether it's methane or carbon dioxide, over the last 10,000 years, it's a period of about 200 years when what's been stored here in nature all this time, we're burning these substances extremely quickly into the air in the way of our lives. This logically keeps these gases and their composition within the atmosphere, increasing the greenhouse effect, which, of course, is important for the planet, because without the greenhouse effect, our planet would have significantly changed and cooled within the universe. But how these emissions amplify the greenhouse effect is really very warning to us. Because when we look at how this is reflected in the global climate, over the last over 100 years there has been an increase in the average temperature within the world by about 1 °C, within the Czech Republic, within the Northern Hemisphere, in our territory this increase is about 1.3 to 1.4 °C in the last 130 years. That's really serious information. When the public asks me how the scientists found out about this, it is necessary to realize that they are based on taking samples from glaciers, whether from the poles or from the high mountain glaciers, where they are able to identify the composition of the atmosphere, and just the so-called. greenhouse gases, at different times, and to prove that we really do human activity, the way we use fossil fuels, the way we use technologies, the climate, the impacts that we are experiencing here, we as humans have a significant influence. I think that even the signals we receive, and the fact that each of the last three decades has been warmer near the Earth's surface than any previous decade since 1850, is also a serious threat. And when we look at the Czech Republic, in fact, all the years that we can consider to be significantly warmer in this century or in this millennium in the Czech Republic were record-breaking. Those are strong warnings. The year 2018 is actually the hottest thermometers in Klementinum in the Czech Republic. And when we look at the long-term curve, since 1881, when we started with the average temperature in the Czech Republic, the average temperature was below 7 °C. Now we're somewhere at 8 °C and there are locations, like stations that measure in Brno-Turan, so the development is that we're already reaching an average temperature of over 10 °C today. And the trends where, let's say, it's modeling are so threatening that by the end of 2100 e.g. in Brno-Tuřany the average temperature can be up to 14 °C. Of course, these are certain scenarios, but those scenarios need to be taken seriously, because those scenarios are just modeling how further greenhouse gas emissions within the Czech Republic and within the world will develop. We're having an amendment to the law today, which, in a significant way, what I'm saying here, all these threats, this amendment can speak to exactly what we can take action. I welcome this novel for myself. I welcome some of the elements it brings. But I would especially like to ask the coalition majority here in the Chamber of Deputies to consider the question of the ceiling. I wonder if it is really good in terms of economic decision to say that the funds we obtain from emission allowances will not be fully returned to measures that could lead to, not only will they reduce emissions, but those measures will also be economical, we will be able to reduce household costs, corporate costs, we will be able to increase competitiveness. That's just investment money. The money, if all or a larger part of it, as suggested here in the amendments, is left to that end, so it's investment money supporting this state's economy, supporting small and medium-sized companies. So, as the House, I would like us to consider the amendments, whether my colleague Balcarová or my colleague Čižinský, who tried to make at least some compromise proposal. To really consider it, because the situation is a warning. And if we say that only 8 billion of emission allowances will be left to those positive measures, then the rest will be dissolved in the state budget at the cost of the government, at the expense of a lot of things that are not so important to the future of this country, for future generations. So please, nicely, let's consider these matters. As far as the composition of the commission is concerned, I have commented on this on the Economic Committee. I think it's extremely unfortunate to put it into the law at all. It's not normal. If we manage such large funds in the Czech Republic, for example. within each operational programme, so it does not make any five-man team that would give any priorities, but do so so so called. monitoring committees representing between 20 and 30 people across the resorts, across the professional public, and in this way the administration of these tens or hundreds of billions of crowns is progressing. This is where I would really like the government coalition to reconsider, or maybe. let the composition of this committee be defined, for example. Government order. But don't let these things be done by law. Because if in two years' time, three years from now, it turns out that there's a need for other departments to have their people represented there, because it's important for the whole issue and its coherence, then at that point, we're going to have to change these things by law again. So so many of my notes on this really important issue for me. And maybe when I was talking - and I'm going to close it - about the warning signals and I mentioned Klementinum, I'm going to tell you this year 2018 in exact numbers. We have been measuring in Klementinum since 1775 and the average temperature for 2018 was 12.8 °C. It was more than 3.5 °C than the long-term average at this point. So I think that these are also strong arguments for not holding back funds that can help to make measures that mitigate the effects of climate change on us, on the people of the Czech Republic, while helping to increase competitiveness, help to reduce the costs of households and companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u35	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's still checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. In that case, I ask if there is an interest in the final word - Madam Secretary, rapporteur, rapporteurs of other committees? It's not like that. [[Reporter reporting.]] Are mít zájem, rapporteur? The final word after the general debate? In detail, okay. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Dana Balcarová is the first to speak in a detailed debate and Mr Petr Třešňák will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my three amendments, which are recorded in the system under the following numbers: 3295 - that is the amendment to the ceiling on the amount of revenue from emission allowances; the second amendment is recorded in the system under number 3296 and it is an amendment which concerns that money that has already been allocated cannot be changed for its purpose and that it may not remain in the state budget; and the third amendment is recorded in the system under 3294 and is aimed at the composition of the Council of the Modernisation Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u37	Thank you, Mrs Balcarová. Now, Mr Petr Třešňák, Mr Schiller will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u38	Allow me to sign up for Amendment 3226, which extends the Council of the Modernisation Fund to 11 members; in addition to Amendment 3227 concerning the promotion of electric traction; in addition to proposal 3330 repealing the provisions on the Council of the Modernisation Fund; and proposal 3333 concerning support for structurally affected regions from the Modernisation Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u39	Thank you for the suggestion. Now another enrolled in the detailed debate by Jan Schiller, Mrs Balcarová will be prepared once more. No? Okay. In that case, a fellow Zahradník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u40	Thank you for the floor. As I said in the general debate, I would like to sign up for my amendments, under the number 3304, which is the conferral or inclusion of an agenda under the Ministry of the Environment, part of the climate. Amendment 3305, which addresses the advantages of the projects in the regions affected by coal mining. And 3306, which means abolishing the obligation for the Council of the Modernisation Fund to be clearly staffed, and it is purely up to the decision of the government or ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u41	Thank you, colleague Schiller. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u42	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for my amendment, which concerns the promotion of cogeneration, which I have justified and presented in the general debate and which is deposited as House document number 3324. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u43	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr Jan Čižinský will now prepare Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Mr. Čižinský, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u44	I'm sorry, I didn't understand enough. I'd just like to sign up for print 3339. I've been rationalizing him here before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u45	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková, my colleague Munzar will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u46	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for an amendment under number 3217, which I duly stated in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u47	Thank you. And now the last one entered into a detailed debate, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I want to sign up for the amendment in the system under the heading number 3321. It is a technical specification of the transposition of the article of the directive into the section of the law, which introduces the articles a new regime called. opt-out facilities, i.e. exemption from participation in the trading system. Equipment in this mode is not obliged to verify emissions reports, for example and subsequently to discard emission allowances. But in this law it is generally written by the operator of the equipment, although the explanatory note shows that the proponents of the law meant the equipment that is involved in the trading system, so in some extensive interpretation someone does not have to stick to it. I therefore propose this amendment, which specifies the definition of operators of installations to a participant in the trading system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-001-018.u49	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. Since there is no proposal that we can vote on after second reading, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 18. According to the approved agenda, we will continue to deal with the laws at third reading. First point number
