ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u1	221. Government bill amending Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Sb. criminal code, as amended, and some other laws /house print 337/ - third reading At the rapporteur's table, Minister Marie Benešová and rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, who was the Constitutional Committee, Mr Marek Výborný. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 337/4, which was delivered on 12 September 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee is available as the House Press 337/5. I am now asking the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Yes, that's right, Madam Secretary will perform. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u2	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I was here at second reading detailing the Government's bill on the State's Attorney's Office, which came to the third reading. It is, to remind you, a proposal for purely adaptation, through which the EU Council Regulation 2017/1939 is adapted..
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and let us hear what the Secretary of State has to say. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u4	... implementing enhanced cooperation with a view to establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as implementing Directive 2017/1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud affecting or threatening the financial interests of the Union. It is therefore rather a technical regulation that allows proper application of the directly applicable European Union regulation. I would remind you that, unfortunately, the implementation period for this directive has expired. 7. 2017 and a non-notification procedure has already been initiated, when the Czech Republic has been officially invited by the Commission, to comment on the fact that the full compatibility of the Czech rule of law with the requirements of the directive has not yet been notified. [[unintelligible]] I therefore urge the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u5	Thank you and I am opening the debate. President Výborný, after whom Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura is preferred, and Mr Feri is also enrolled in the debate. In this order, colleagues will perform. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, on the one hand, I would like to fulfil my duty as rapporteur for the Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee on this press. The Constitutional Committee discussed this press at its meeting after the second reading on 23 September, adopted a resolution on which I will then also give opinions in the context of the vote. I just want it to be known in advance, to say that, like the Minister, we consider it important to approve this standard precisely because the implementation deadline has already expired. The matter goes to the government, the Ministry of Justice, but also to the Chamber of Deputies, let's also say, because we have been discussing this press here for over a year. On the basis of this long discussion, there are some basically legislative technical amendments, which will then be recommended for approval, and there are some amendments that also concern the sharing of assets within international judicial cooperation. These are the proposals that were actually consulted with the petitioner, the Ministry of Justice, and the constitutional committee are recommended for approval. As regards Amendment C of Mr Michálek, which was loaded properly at second reading and which concerns prosecutors, respectively. I would like to say here that the Constitutional Committee has not adopted an opinion on this amendment. So much for the constitutional committee. As a whole, the Constitutional Committee proposes to approve this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. For reasons of employment, Mr Marek Benda apologises from 11.00 to 13.00. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura, after him with priority rights Chairman of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, right at the outset, I say, on behalf of the SPD movement, categorical not to this law, which introduces the institute of a European prosecutor in the Czech Republic. This is a completely uncovered and undoubtedly targeted attack on the sovereignty of EU countries in the area of justice, and in the future it will undoubtedly be a great tool for punishing and blackmailing disobedient Member States. I will overlook the fact that the introduction and financing of the European Prosecutor's Office will cost European taxpayers tens of millions of euros. As Lenka Bradáčová, the head of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Prague also said, European prosecutors will be a supervisory body over regional prosecutors, i.e. the Czech prosecutors, who will continue to apply our legislation. Dr Bradáčová also specifically pointed out that she would lose her sovereignty by subjecting them to a European prosecutor. So the question is, what is the point of such a plaintiff if he is actually just doubling the Czech prosecutor and it is basically an unnecessary intervention in the sovereignty of the Czech states and their criminal policies. As I said in the introduction, the aim of the proposal is clear. It is an outright and undoubtedly targeted attack on the sovereignty of EU countries in the area of justice, but it will undoubtedly be a great tool for punishing and blackmailing disobedient Member States in the future. Why all this? Who's to benefit? we should ask when the European Prosecutor is bringing nothing new. Of course, this event has only one goal. A strong centralist euro state, which will abolish national states, and that is what all European regulations are going to do. Only a very naive person can think that this is some kind of final proposal that all ends. The European Prosecutor is the first step towards the removal of the Institute of National Prosecutors, precisely their subordinate to the Brussels-led Central Office. Another obstacle to the way that Brusel will try to eliminate will be the Czech, more precisely national independent courts and police. Under the pretext of independence, they will again be subject to the Brussels bureaucracy. Czech Republic, respectively. its government is among the twenty countries that have agreed to this proposal for a European prosecutor. So here we see in practice what the defence of Czech interests from the government in Brussels looks like, for example, members of the previous and current government coalition with incomprehensible shame are afraid to boast about. Yes, this disgracefully tramples on the Czech national interests of the ANO and ČSSD coalition. Interestingly, there have been various accusations in recent months that somebody is trying to threaten the independence of prosecutors. After all, in this sense, we will also be voting on the Pirates' amendment. However, what is striking is that if we vote here on the real threat to the independence of Czech prosecutors, or even their direct submission to someone abroad, it doesn't bother anyone, and pirát and others do not respond and everyone basically votes against it, virtually. in order for Czech representatives to stop being independent, and they are voting for their maximum dependence on someone else abroad. This is really a typical hypocritical issue once again, when we see that someone is saying something to themselves here, they are proposing something, but when there is a real threat to the independence of Czech prosecutors, they even vote to lose the independence of Czech prosecutors and to be dependent on someone from abroad. This really is an incredible matter that we want to point out here. Because the introduction of the European Prosecutor's Institute in the Czech Republic is a real effective attack on the sovereignty of Czech independent justice. So those who sincerely want to defend the interest of the Czech Republic and its citizens, please do not vote in the same way as the SPD for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u9	Thank you. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on the apocalyptic vision of President Okamura, where we are at risk of ruling the Czech courts by European courts and ruling the Czech laws by European laws, I would like to add that the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg has existed for many years, and for many years there has been an obligation for our courts to apply European law and to ask a preliminary question, so I would like to address the Court of Justice of the European Union and then answer the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Likewise, there is, of course, an obligation in the position of Czech law against European law to apply European law as a priority, and there is a direct effect on the regulation, and if the Czech Republic does not implement the directives, there are, of course, mechanisms that lead the Czech Republic to comply with its obligations under international treaties on the European Union. So that already exists here, and now we are supplementing this system with an element of the European prosecutor. And logically, when the European Union, which means rich Western states, pours 50 billion crowns every year, clean money for the Czech Republic, they don't logically want the money to be stolen here. They want to have some more efficient way of controlling the use of the money, not sending some paperwork. I consider this to be a positive element that the European money will be under greater control, there will be no danger that it will be stolen, because the European Union obviously has a greater interest in controlling the funds, while everyone here is only interested in spending it, and the fact that it is being used for nonsense in a number of cases is a secondary interest. But now to what I consider to be more irrelevant in our decision-making today, and that is the issue of the independence of prosecutors from executive power, or government. According to the current system, the Government has the possibility to withdraw the Supreme Attorney at any time and without giving any reason. I think that this is inconclusive, and on the round table, where representatives of political parties and experts were present, it turned out that this is a solution that is unique and which creates a relatively large dependence of prosecutors on executive power. Of course, it is true that prosecutors are placed in executive power, but this does not mean that they are implementing the will of the government and are to depend on it in this way. On the contrary, those creational and regulatory mechanisms should be designed to enable the prosecutor to be independent so that he can check cases impartially. Now we have it in an absolutely acute case where the Attorney General is investigating a living matter involving the Prime Minister, and at the same time, the same Supreme Attorney may be the government's appealable. I am convinced that in this system decision we cannot rely on the individual's personal bravery. We have examples here, whether this is the end of Mr Leo Steiner, who stopped the subsidy for Agrofert, agricultural, and was then essentially forced to end up at the competent office, or the head of the financial office Karel Trefný, who measured the tax on Agrofert. He's finished again. The decision was declared unlawful by the court. So personal bravery can only lead in a number of cases to an end in that office. Therefore, in a number of cases, it works that prosecutors and other other functions are revocable, or judges etc., are revocable only in disciplinary proceedings on the basis of an initiative that may arise from the Ministry of Justice, but in the result it is decided by an independent disciplinary court. We have therefore come after the round table with our own proposal, together with President Stanjura and President Výborný, who has relatively high support among the opposition parties, and the Minister has promised to come with his own amendment in June of this year. To this day, we do not know the final outcome of what has been discussed at the Legislative Council of the Government, it is not in the Government, it is not in the Chamber of Deputies, even though the Minister promised it should be in June. [[11.20 hours]] With the things that are being proposed, I really must say that we are not satisfied. Perhaps the Minister there is considering that judges would have a decisive vote in the selection committee for those state prosecutors. So we've come to the fact that these people will be chosen by lot by chosen people, judges who, of course, have expertise in their field, which is judgment and decision-making, impartial decision-making between citizens, legal persons, but they probably don't have the expertise to select people into the positions of prosecutors, even if it is a criminal judge. This, of course, is not to say that there are no exceptions, people who have such experience, but certainly at the time when the lot is proposed, there will be cases where people who do not have this experience and the necessary expertise in this area will be drawn. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] So I would like to ask you to support, if you want independent, that the Supreme Prosecutor be independent of the government and be able, in fact, impartially, without fear of any pressure, to decide on the living case, even in the future, to participate in the tender procedures that will be launched on the heads of the Attorney General's Attorneys, and not to do so in the future, so that the Government will place both the Attorney General and the Attorney General, so that you can support our proposal, which has not received a negative or positive opinion in the Constitutional Committee. Logically, the government is against it, of course, it suits the government that it can exert its pressure on the Supreme Attorney's already implicit, and I think that even if a person who has the greatest personal bravery, so if we want to set this systemically well, it is necessary to choose a solution in which the government will not be able to appeal the Supreme Attorney for no reason and immediately. Thank you for your attention and support for our amendment under letter C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u11	Thank you. Apologies. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 11.20 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mr Jiří Kobza apologises from 1 p.m. to 19-45 p.m., i.e. until the end of the sitting day, due to negotiations in the electoral region. The following are factual points. First of all, Mr Lubomír Volný will speak, followed by President Kalousek with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. By your means, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Michálek for confirming to us that we are already the European Union's legislativeally partly occupied gubernia, that in many ways we are not sovereign enough to decide on our own. I would also like to thank him for publicly confirming that he not only welcomes this situation, but that he will work actively to further deepen the loss of our national sovereignty in favour of the European Union and in favour of Brussels. Members of the Movement The united will never support any legislation here in Parliament that would lead to the creation of an EU arrest warrant, an EU prosecutor, an EU judge or an EU army. As far as the economic advantage of our membership of the European Union is concerned, the eternal dispute between how many billions of crowns will be received from the European Union and how many hundreds of billions of crowns will flow out of the Czech Republic in the form of dividends has already been clearly answered. We feed the European Union, not the European Union, us. We have subsidies for things that we often do not need, thanks to which we are blackmailable and Brusel-controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u13	Thank you. President Kalousek, with a factual point, followed by Mrs Válková and Mrs Langšádlová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u14	Thank you for the floor. I am not really going to respond to Mr Volný. I have a request. From the two previous speakers in the debate, perhaps more than ten times the term of independence of the prosecutors, independence of the prosecutors. I very much ask that we treat this term with caution. Only courts and judges have independent decisions in our judicial system. According to the law still in force, the prosecutor's powers are impartial. And to be clear, I will support Mr Michálek's amendment. I will support him as a bigger insurance policy precisely for the impartial exercise of his duties, but I very much ask that we treat the word independence with care. We know, or at least some of us know that there is a great ambition for prosecutors to create a constitutional fourth pillar of independent power, and that would be a state in which I really do not want to live. So please be careful with the concept of independence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u15	Thank you. Mrs Válková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, fortunately two minutes will pass shortly. Firstly, I certainly wanted to support Mr Michálek's words with regard to the first thematic block, which means supporting the establishment of the European Prosecutor's institution, including its argument. None of us certainly wants the flows that are taking place here sometimes less, sometimes more controlled, sometimes more, sometimes less on the part of the public prosecutors to be objectively investigated and assessed, to continue to be subject to unnecessary political debates, and if there is another function that brings about impartiality and objectivity, only well. So in this respect, yes. As far as the second question is concerned, the Minister will certainly respond specifically, because unlike me, he knows the exact timetable. But, folks, this is really a big deal. It is a law, or a comprehensive amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act, which will soon come to the House, and we should not miss the opportunity to discuss it in committees, to go on compromise proposals, perhaps some of the proposals contained in the present proposal by Mr Michálek and others. However, what has just happened now is that we will quickly be in third reading, under pressure, now I am looking for the appropriate expression, the political current situation to rape the proper legislative process, I warn you about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u17	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u18	I would like to respond here to one of the widespread myths that has once again fallen here today and which concerns revenues, dividends that are leaving the Czech Republic towards the west, and I am unfortunately also from the mouth of one of the constitutional officials, high constitutional officials, once in the Senate during negotiations with the President of the Commission, Juncker has heard this, where on one hand the proceeds that go from the Czech Republic, in fact the dividends that are going to the west, against that, in fact, the money that comes from the European Union. I would like to say that it is complete nonsense to compare these two quantities. These revenues are often based on investments that came here in the 1990s, when there were no jobs, we were not competitive, and it is logical that the investor simply takes the returns. We should try to keep the money here, reinvest them, and create conditions for that. There's no doubt about it. But comparing these two variables, comparing revenues, dividends, and against the subsidies that come here within the European Union is simply complete nonsense. And I beg all those who use something like that to think about it. It's total nonsense, and it's variables that we can't compare completely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u19	The Minister's point of order follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u20	Thank you. I just wanted to respond to Mr Michálek's comment that the government has not yet submitted its government proposal. Unfortunately, she did not submit because Mr. Attorney General mentioned that 2. 10., which was the nearest possible date, wants to discuss this government proposal, which is ready, passed through the Legislative Council of the Government and went through basically all the essential votes, at the Anti-corruption Council of the Government. I gave him permission because I think it's necessary. So 2. 10. 2019 this government proposal will be discussed at the Anti-Corruption Council of the Government, and then immediately it will be transferred through the government to the Chamber of Deputies. As far as Mr Michálek's proposal is concerned, I think it does not belong to this law, that it is a press of 524, and such a demonstration of the abuse of the legislative process, because it has been loaded here without any discussion and has not been discussed at all on any committee that is essential for such a standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u21	Thank you. President Excellent with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u22	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to Mrs Válková, which I respect, but I think that the words on the rape of the legislative process are really hard to accept. I'm sure you know that. The motion was made by a colleague of Michálek, who was properly read in the second reading. The proposal was then duly discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Yes, some proposals may be made earlier, and then they are discussed twice on the Constitutional Legal Committee, but there has been no rape of the legislative process. And unfortunately, the Minister is wrong, because if you look at the board, there's an amendment to the State's Attorney's Act. So if the law is thus open, of course, any one of us can make any amendments. And what I want to stress, and that's crucial, here are three amendments to the State's Attorney's Act, which are going to the same thing. And when we repeatedly asked that these press be discussed here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, it was you, your government coalition, who prevented it. So now to say that something is being raped here, I don't think it's really acceptable. It's not like that. Only Members here want to discuss something that is already here in the House. And if the Minister says something is being held up by the Attorney General, this is also a little different, because on the round table on May 15th, I too, Madam Secretary, have heard from your mouth the promise that by the end of June there will be a government amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. This has not happened, which is why the situation is now in the same state as we have at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u23	Thank you. We continue with factual remarks. Mr Benešík, Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u24	Mr Vice-President, just a brief response to what was said a few minutes ago. We have had the superiority of European domestic law since the 1960s, and it has been appearing in judicatures since the 1960s. The Treaty of Lisbon, which was adopted after our accession to the Union, merely described and described the practice applied long ago. That's nothing new. And that is how it is, the citizens knew before the referendum about the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. I don't think the citizens of the Czech Republic are stupid. In the only national referendum we had, they decided to agree to this. Most have agreed to this, and I think that, in particular, politicians who promote direct democracy and referendums should respect this. As far as the European Prosecutor is concerned, KDU-ČSL is very reserved for the proposal. We didn't support it. But this is so-called enhanced cooperation, where the Member States voluntarily want to strengthen this cooperation and join this project. No one's forcing us to do this, it's our free choice. Although I repeat that I personally and KDU-ČSL have great reservations, but we respect the majority in the Czech Chamber of Deputies, our Czech Members elected directly by the citizens of the Czech Republic who simply want this. As far as subsidies are concerned, mixing private finance from dividends, such as investments in the 1990s, and public funds from the European budget, I would say that it is not right. It's very misleading. And as far as subsidies are concerned, I, as former mayor, can say that every year we had $7 million to invest, that's what's left of the RUD and our own resources, but in four years we invested 111 million, for example, in a sewage treatment plant, water treatment plant. Of course, it would not have been possible without the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u25	Mr. Ambassador, time. I'm sorry. Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to point out to the Minister that, fortunately, the House's Rules of Procedure have changed since it was in place, so the guarantee committee is discussing the law after the second reading, so the amendment by Mr Michálek was properly discussed in the committee. So it's not true that we're gonna bypass the Constitutional Legal Committee. First of all. And second of all, I wanted to ask. Madam Secretary, you said that your proposal went through the Government's Legislative Council with all major votes. So I wanted to ask you what key you are dividing the members of the Legislative Council into essential and irrelevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u27	Thank you. A factual point by Mrs Válková, after which Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleague, by your means, výborný, yes, I used exaggerations. I also do not like legislative rape, but I have probably already infected myself with the sometimes expressive expressions of this Chamber of Deputies, and after yesterday it is no wonder. I overreacted a little bit, it's not legislative rape, but at least it's not standard. Why non-standard? I'll explain. Because this was supposed to be an implementation amendment, an amendment that implements the European directive even under more sanctions if we did not implement it in time. And we won't be implementing it in time. So that's one. In this respect, I think that we really should not add other amendments to the implementation amendments, even if they are the same institute. And two. As far as the resolution on the concentration is concerned, there I would just like to point out that we have adopted a resolution on the last IPR, in which we are asking for the connection of all the press relating to the prosecutor's office. That's the first statement. And the second, there was no recommendation of this proposal, which is really such a testament to the implementation amendment. Not the sticker, because it is something completely different, in fact it is such a twig, national, and there was no suggestion that this proposal, which was read very interestingly and creatively by Mr Michálek at the last hearing, was read. We didn't take any stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u29	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I've been appointed here twice by my colleagues, so I'll take the liberty of responding briefly to them. First of all, through you to Mrs Langšádlová, who unfortunately is not present. Debates on how much membership of the European Union is economically beneficial to us, or is not, comparing the amount of subsidies and the amount of dividends exported, are happening and are being discussed in the economic community. That's some kind of thing you're just gonna have to deal with. And these debates are going to happen here very often, because that's just a fact. To my colleague Benešík. I am quite struck by the President's constant repetition of the referendum on accession to the European Union, which is actively prevented by the KDU-ČSL in the opposite Guard today, because the referendum on accession to the European Union was under some kind of legal condition. Those people then approved a specific state of legislation and did not approve that the screws would be tightened so much in the future that, in essence, the Chamber of Deputies would be at the level of the regional office, which mostly only approves European legislation. That's one. [[11.40 hours]] Secondly, the referendum on accession to the European Union had a zero vote and decided by a simple majority. This means that if one single person, one single citizen of the Czech Republic, came and voted against joining the European Union, we would never enter the European Union. Today, when the same proposals are made to repeat the referendum in the same values as they were then, it is especially KDU-ČSL, which constantly beats us on the head that we are Democrats, so it is KDU-ČSL, which actively prevents us from doing so on every occasion. So no. Citizens of the Czech Republic are not stupid. So stop stopping them from proving it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u31	Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes for today's meeting from 13:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. There is a factual remark from Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u32	Thank you for the floor. Citizens in the referendum have approved the system as it will be. The fact that we transferred part of the powers in that referendum to the common institutions of the European Union was approved by citizens in that country. This means that the current situation is based on this referendum. If someone just doesn't like it, then they really have to ask why the citizens approved this in 2003.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u33	Thank you. We continue with the general debate to which Mr Feri is signed up. Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, I have been patient, I have waited. Thank you very much to President Michálek for trying to explain to Vice-President Okamur the meaning of the European Public Prosecutor. But I'm afraid he's not entirely interested in the facts he's taken, because the reason Vice-President Okamura came forward is simple. It's just called a European public prosecutor. European. And that's enough to trigger his reaction. As for President Volný through Mr President, I find it completely perverse to try to point out dividends in that guard, as if it were necessary, appropriate and reasonable to cut it in some way, maybe to expel those investors, just to be satisfied and to say, well, no dividends from the Czech Republic are leaving. No. The ambition should be completely different. The ambition should be for our Czech investors, our Czech entrepreneurs to invest abroad, and the dividends flowed from abroad to us. That should be our ambition in particular. Mr. Chairman Michálek, I'm not gonna cover it up at all, he surprised me a little bit. He surprised me with his amendment, which is not really an adhesive, and which is actually a bit irregular because it does not concern the material. But times are not normal. It is not common for so many people to demonstrate or pronounce publicly, whether physically or on social networks, their opinion that the prosecutor's office, the system of prosecutors should be independent. And I'd like to stop by that independence, too. I would not open the question of the constitutional position of the prosecutor's office, because if we open the law on the prosecutor's office and open the Constitution to it, and we are going to debate very much what the state's attorney's office is, how it is influenced, who it is influenced by, on what guidelines the attractions and so on, we will not get anywhere. Discussing whether we are to have a constitutional system or, therefore, the position of the state prosecutor in the Constitution, like my France, that means independence, or whether the position of sui generis suits us here, let's actually say something that stands lightly between the courts and the executive power, that debate would really disable us and not accept the very necessary amendment to the state prosecutor's law. Mr. Chairman Michálek surprised us a little. But the draft he tabled, the amendment is reasonable. We've really been discussing this. It's also what you want to invent. You have to correct the appeal. You need to correct some kind of disciplinary proceedings, disciplinary wrongdoing, and limit the term of office somehow, the position of the state's leading prosecutors. That is why we will submit the amendment. Assuming he didn't pass, we adopted a resolution on the Constitutional Legal Committee, by which we called on the President of the Chamber of Deputies to promote actively on the Organising Committee the couple of drafts that are either here, that is, the proposal of the Independents and Mayors, the TOP 09, the proposal of the Pirate and the Senatorial to discuss it all together with the Government's proposal. When he comes here, it's still in the stars. We don't know that. What's left for us to do but wait for the secretary and the proposal. Let's see what concessions we can make there. But we really should cling to discussing the patterns together and finding a suitable compromise. It's not just the paragrafo text itself. It's not how it's written, it's the context of acceptance. This means, if the Ministry is here, then the government is trying hard to enforce something to satisfy demands, whether lay or professional, but it is leaving out the key thing, and that is credibility, that is, how much the amendment will work crediblely towards the public, how much the public can relate to it, how much it will be satisfied by the fact that the conditions of independent performance within the public prosecutor's system are guaranteed and maintained satisfactorily. Thank you. We will therefore support President Michálek's amendment. In general, I would also recommend supporting this because there may be complications in the Senate. It may be that the senators will present and send back the proposal, which I would not consider to be entirely happy in a situation where non-notification inflection is already underway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u35	Thank you. A point of fact will be taken by the Volný Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u36	Thank you. I will try again only because I have been appointed, through the President, Mr Feri, not to break a second or third agreement, and to explain my position to you as simply as possible. I don't mind someone investing here in the '90s or in the first two decades of this century. I'm glad those people invested in this place. I don't mind them making their dividends here. What I'm a little sorry about is that we don't have legislation similar to that in some other European countries that would either motivate or directly force those investors not to export the profits altogether. If I were to break both the second and third agreements and create some assumption and insult myself and want to return something to you, I would say that it would seem more perverse to me that you would prefer that Czech investors invest abroad and bring those profits here. I would prefer that Czech investors, whether the small ones or the biggest ones, simply invest in technologies where we produce high value added products here in our home and that we do not have to bring the profits out of nowhere, but we just had them here at home. But like I said, I'm gonna try not to break the deal, so I'm not taking it personally. And I am just trying to explain to you that people have a right to know that the European Union is giving us something and at the same time something is taking away from us. They have the right to decide whether or not the ratio between the subsidies and the profits exported is worth having a positive relationship with the European Union as such and the legislation in that practice. It's a legitimate debate. It's justified to talk about it. There's nothing wrong with that. So don't take it personally and come and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u37	Thank you. Mr Feri will respond with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Through Mr President, I am afraid that Mr Volný is based on a somewhat dubious starting point. That is to say, he is merging the European Union and the citizens of the European Union. The European Union is really giving us something, it is also giving us from ours, because we are contributing to the European Union's budget, but what it takes to do it, so it is the investors, the citizens of the European Union, whether natural or legal persons. And if you want them not to take anything away from us, that means one thing - that means really wire the boundaries, completely cut off from the capital and say, well, now we're finally happy, now we're playing our own game here, and everything's fine. But I certainly don't want a world like that, just like I don't want an excessive state intervention into free enterprise. And I think that these conditions, as set up by European legislation, are a high standard that does not really exist in the world, i.e. free movement of persons, goods, services and capital is something that many states envy, which was hard to achieve. And I certainly don't want to change anything about it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u39	Thank you. The Volný Member will respond. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u40	Thank you, Mr President. After this entry, I grant you, Mr Feri, through Mr President, the right of the last word so that we can continue to discuss the law. What the European Union is taking from us is sovereignty. And that's what I do and what many citizens do in the Czech Republic. The European Union has the most sophisticated system in many legislative areas. And perhaps that is why it has one of the slowest growing economies. He has such bureaucracy and such legislation that if a Muslim terrorist takes away his citizenship, he has to be repaid because of formal shortcomings. I want the free movement of people, capital, services, I want my son to be able to travel and work in a country of his own choice, in a culture that he will like. On the other hand, I don't want him to live in a country that's so over-programmed and so legislatively modified that he won't be able to bake a bake in his own garden, because it's gonna need to produce too much carbon footprint. That is what I fear, that is what I do not want, that is what - I repeat - the citizens did not vote in the referendum on accession to the European Union in the year that it was voted on because they had no idea. None of us had any idea. So my second point, which I am returning to Mr Benešík, is - if you are referring to a direct democracy and a referendum on accession to the European Union, please approve a general referendum law that will have the same values as the referendum law on accession to the European Union, which is the only one in our history for the time being. I am not really going to continue this debate, and I am giving all potential candidates the right to the last word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u41	Mr Benešík came forward with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u42	Thanks for the word, I hope it's the last one. I have used this referendum precisely in relation to those who are on the verge of a referendum. I am not a supporter of referendums, general referendums on complex issues. I understand that there can be local referendums, that there can be regional referendums about whether we build a pool or an incinerator, I understand that. But the referendums that are so complex, about such complex issues, I'm not a fan. So I'm not here for referendums. I used it as an example to those who were riding for them. I think that in the United Kingdom, in the UK, we can see how such referendums are going. I am in favour of representative democracy, because a citizen pays us enough to study these things, to discuss these things, and then, based on sophisticated information and often very long consulting with experts, to decide. I think that's why a citizen pays us, not that he spends half his life studying things he doesn't even have time for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u43	Thank you. Mrs Monika Jarošová apologizes for today's meeting from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mrs Valachová will now speak in the general debate, Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, let me give my opinion on the Social Democracy Club. We will support the European public prosecutor not because we may want to bow to Brussels, but we want the passage of law and law for our citizens and entrepreneurs as they move freely, as described here, in the territory of the European Union, because that is what the law is about. It's a government law, and it's natural to have our support. Now, as regards the amendment by Jakub Michálek. Here I want to follow up on what the Minister of Justice has said, because it really is that a government proposal, yes, has been made by the Minister of Justice, that is absolutely true, just as it is true that the Anti-Corruption Council is to sit down and it is also for the Coalition Council to sit down, where the ANO movement and social democracy will communicate precisely about the Government Bill on the Public Prosecutor's Office. For this reason, Members and Members of Social Democracy will not support this amendment in this bill, which concerns something completely different, and, of course, as Social Democrats, we are seeking agreement with the Minister and agreement with the ANO movement. I mean, he's gonna be at the next few weeks. And I believe that we will come to that agreement, and the government proposal will soon arrive in the House. I can say for myself that I am glad that we are heading towards all the proposals that have been made towards the State's Attorney's office being discussed in the context of a single debate. Personally, I think it's legitimate and it's also a good practice within the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u45	Thank you. There are now factual points in the following order: Mr Staněk, President Michálek, President Farský. Sorry, that will not be a factual point, it will be with priority in the case of President Farský, but, of course, factual remarks have priority. Mr. Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u46	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not allow me to comment on certain statements made by my colleague Benešík, whom I respect very much, but very strongly protest against rhetoric that a citizen pays us, that we are here to study something as well as paying politicians, to lecture, to decide something. Officials should be paid well above all. When it comes to my opinion, Members would not have to be paid at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u47	Thank you. President Michálek, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u48	Thank you for the floor. I am a little surprised that social democracy has changed its mind, because, if I remember correctly, President Chvojka supported my proposal on the Constitutional Legal Committee. But on the other hand, I consider this to be a crown and an excellent maneuver of social democracy, because it completes the process of the criminally prosecuted Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, whose prosecutions are being dealt with all the time, so, at the same time, the Supreme Prosecutor, who is now reviewing his suspended prosecution, and now as Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Government, will approve the rules under which the Supreme Prosecutors will appeal. [[The dissenting noise of the members of the YES]] So I thank social democracy for putting the crown on the anti-corruption board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u49	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will respond with a point of fact, and then Mr Kohoutek is signed up with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u50	Members of Jakub Michálek. He seems to be missing, and it surprises me, some gap in education from the point of view of how the coalition or government decides, because it was essential. We haven't reached a coalition agreement. It is quite logical that if someone is part of the coalition, they first seek a government proposal, including through the President, and that is the magic that it is then not a debate on the right thing, but with a zero result, but that then it is a debate based on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and that the change that we really need and which social democracy considers necessary will happen. [[12.00 hours]] My views on the impartiality and independence of the prosecutors are widely known, consistent for about 20 years, so it is hard to assume that I would like to change them. The fact that I want to negotiate correctly and I want a majority in the Chamber of Deputies is more of a measure of experience and state-building than the other way around. As far as the Anti-Corruption Council is concerned, yes, it is chaired by the Prime Minister, but I am in this respect, and I think I have always trusted the police, the prosecutor from any stage in the prosecution of Andrej Babiš, so at this point I am putting myself back on the line, because at the moment the prosecution is finally stopped. And, of course, equality before the law at this point also applies to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u51	Thank you. Mr Kohoutek with a factual remark. Then, with factual remarks, the President Kalousek, Mr Feri, is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u52	Hello, more or less, my colleague Valachová has already said so. The Prime Minister's criminal prosecution has been finalized. I just want to say that I'm terrified of a time when we should have a Justice Minister who won't respect the rule of law. And if the prosecution is finally brought to an end, even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, the potential shadow minister of justice cannot afford to say that he is criminally prosecuted, in a situation where this prosecution has been finally terminated. God save us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u53	Have a nice noon and I call upon you to make a factual remark by Mr Dominik Feri. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I've already mentioned this: what we have left but to wait for the government proposal. There's nothing we can do about it. But what I'd like - given that we're in opposition, we have to wait for the government here in this thing. [[unintelligible]] But what I'd like to hear from the Minister or the representatives of the government's deputies is a guarantee that we'll discuss it all together. It's nothing to do with having it in a merged debate, discussing it. Madam Secretary here says we can. If he says it on the microphone, I'll be perfectly satisfied. And if we discuss this, we can easily compromise, and we can talk about these things in detail. And the key is the credibility of how it will work when the government's proposal is pushed through here without giving in to the opposition, senators and the public. That means, when the Secretary of State gets out here and says yes, we're not gonna be like all the other opposition proposals, we're gonna have a year and a half of proposals here, we're not gonna leave it here in a bluff, we're gonna discuss it together, so maybe we'll give you a round of applause. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u55	Thank you and we will now return to the general debate in the sense that I do not have another factual point here, so with priority rights Mr Farský. Please. And Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the fundamental prerequisites of a functioning rule of law and democracy is trust in justice. The fact that when you get into some kind of trouble like the weaker one in the conflict, you get justice. It may take longer, it may take a shorter time, but you will come to justice. We are in a special situation in the Czech Republic, and we are still in it, even though the prosecution of the Prime Minister has been halted, so since the Prime Minister became a criminally prosecuted person who, mediated through the Ministry of the Interior, has police under him, through the Ministry of Justice has a prosecutor under him, so trust in justice is in jeopardy and weakened. And it was clear from the very first moment that it couldn't go well. Because in the event of stopping, ending, liberation, part of the citizens will think that the one who is strong enough will simply not get to justice can replace key people in time and essentially force his freedom into the system in some way. In the event of conviction, if the Prime Minister were convicted, we could absolutely count on it, and we have heard it in advance, that he will say that he is going to buy prosecution, that they are all corrupt and that he does not respect the outcome of the court and the work of law enforcement authorities. Whether it would end in the case of a Prime Minister or a conviction, it would always mean for the Czech society that a large part of it will be convinced at that moment that justice in the Czech Republic is not working. That was simply an inevitable conclusion from the first moment the Prime Minister became a criminally prosecuted man. That's why we didn't want him to be. And that was why we convinced the Prime Minister not to. That it would just hurt society in the end. And we told him, for you yourselves knew this very well, for you had in your own code, that the mere announcement of the accusation means that you will be expelled from the party, from the ANO movement and that you will lose all functions. You knew very well in 2015, 2016 but in time you canceled so that such a person could become Prime Minister. This step and Mr Michálek's amendment to letter C have ambition and carries in it the strengthening of trust in justice. Since the Attorney General, the Attorney General, will not simply appeal at every government hearing without giving a reason. He won't be in this very difficult situation, which then undermines any confidence in his final decision. Not with me, I respect him, as I totally respect stopping the Prime Minister's prosecution. I take it and respect it precisely because I have great respect for justice, and the political fights that we have here are a fraction to me against how I wish this state to function, to function fairly and to have confidence in justice. But at this point, we have an exceptional opportunity to strengthen trust in the rule of law. And there's no reason why letter C doesn't approve today. We discussed him on the committee, he was discussed, we didn't hear any objections to his content. We've heard that it's a sticker, which it isn't, we've heard that there's a need to rush, which isn't entirely true, and it's certainly not going to slow down if we approve it today. For the STAN club, I therefore say that we will join our votes with a liking to Mr Michálek's amendment. It is precisely for the basic reason that we want the confidence in justice in this country to be strengthened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u57	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, I call on Mr Pavel Růžička to comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must look back because Mr Farský is lying here. He's lying in front of the House. Please, the ANO code of ethics has changed because of me. Look at me! For me. So I can run for the Chamber of Deputies. So not for the Prime Minister, but for me. I am the only Member who has not been issued by the Chamber of Deputies. And during my parliamentary mandate, the prosecutor stopped prosecuting me. So, Mr Farský through Mr President, do not lie to the Chamber of Deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u59	Now another point of fact, Mr Jiří Mihola, so far the last point of fact. Mr. Ambassador Jiří Mihola jumped on me. [[Member Farsky has the wrong button.]] Did you press it by mistake? Oh, so it was a mistake, but I mean, Mr. Congressman, you shouldn't push the buttons of other Members! Would you like to comment? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u60	Thank you. I'll explain easily. I'm sitting at the table where my colleague Mihola pushed his card, and I, sitting at the table, pushed her. It's a mistake, I admit, definitely. And I can't call him off right now, I can't do it any other way than try to explain it. I have a card at the next table. Of course, I'm sorry about that, and I hope I get the word anyway. Thank you. I merely mentioned the codex which I cannot recall exactly when it was changed, but it was simply promoted in the elections as that when any of the members of the ANO movement were charged, investigated, charged, so at that moment he lost his membership of the ANO movement and all the functions. And that disappeared from the ANO code, and that person was designed by the YES movement to the Prime Minister. That's the contradiction I mentioned to me, but we can please return to the essence of trusting in justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u61	Otherwise, we will now return to the general debate, I would like to say in the standard applications. So I will now ask Mr Grospič to speak and Mr Pavel Blažek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, it appears in the discussion that the state prosecutor's office and its position, regardless of the case, which resonates here and which part of fellow Members and political parties and movements and various civic activities, such as the reconstruction of the state, a million moments, tries to defy in the Czech Republic, is a big topic, and it is also necessary to say to those who are memorials in the House that he has been almost before the approval or submission of a bill that would amend or otherwise assume the status of prosecutors, but he has never actually come through this Chamber of Deputies and distributed opinions not only politically but also I think, and that is essential to say, factually and professionally. The proposal that we have here today has had quite a long fate in the Chamber of Deputies, and we as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia have not applied for it very much, for simple reasons. The proposed government proposal implements EU legislation into our rule of law in order to address, and that is not questioned, the status of prosecutors who will be appointed as European Prosecutors, European Delegated Prosecutors, and wants to enable them to carry out their activities properly in the context of criminal proceedings. In this context, it is assumed that they will be allowed to consult registers, registers, records, databases and lists in order to obtain the necessary information, to the same extent and in the same way as the prosecutor obtains it for the purpose of criminal proceedings with a superior status. That's what's important to see. As part of the proposed changes, there is also a requirement that certain categories of personal data kept by the Office from the files be processed in the central register of prosecuted persons whose administrator is the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, and that these central records of prosecuted persons be complete and provide a comprehensive picture of criminal proceedings conducted in the Czech Republic, and in particular that they collect data and view them, which would therefore be in accordance with the EU rules cited, but also, of course, that they do not cross with the so-called. GDPR. However, it is clear that the Office will therefore play a role before the relevant national courts, including proceedings on extraordinary remedies, and this is a serious problem, setting out a system of sharing powers between the Office and the national authorities, but the EU institutions are superior to the sovereignty and jurisdiction of the Czech Republic in relation to criminal assessment, including international bilateral, bilateral agreements, based on the evocative law of the Office, i.e. the transfer of the legal case directly to the Office, and therefore, in principle, if the Office decides to exercise its competence, this will prevent the competent national authorities from dealing with and prosecuting the same action, and national law will only apply to the extent that the matter is not covered. This is apparent from the Council Regulation 2017/1939. What is important is that, where the case is governed by both national law and the EU regulation cited, this regulation, or the European Union, always takes precedence. The status of prosecutors therefore and the state of the Czech Republic at all and the protection of Czech citizens is fully placed in the hands - in the proposed list - of another institution, i.e. the EU. And from this point of view, I think that this is an extremely serious, debatable matter, and we should not be too excited about it by being part of the European Union establishment, that, even in this case, the Czech Republic must comply with these things, although I understand that previous governments have committed themselves to this and we have the obligation of transcription into the rule of law. I would also like to draw attention to one more thing that is being quoted here in relation to the political cases that are going on here, and I would say that it bothers me, for example, as we are talking about the status of prosecutors here, how they have put up some political cases, where they should be a guarantee of impartiality, responsibility, awareness of how they are going and under what rules of criminal proceedings, while some of them are commenting on these matters publicly, while they are commenting on these matters publicly and share some concerns or the position of their state organisation of the Union of prosecutors, which is not entitled to do so, and, on the contrary, should lead state representatives and their members to comply with the rules, i.e. Act on the State Attorney's Office, Constitution of the Czech Republic, Legal Code, Criminal Code, Criminal Code. So these things are for deep reflection, and perhaps not so much the opposite of what is being presented here, that with this change, when the Czech Republic gives up part of sovereignty, we must also necessarily accept the guarantee and guarantee that the government will not interfere in any way with the state prosecutors. Here I would like to say that the status of prosecutors is regulated in the Constitution of the Czech Republic, for those who do not realize it, in the third head, where it is clearly said, and the title of this title is that it is a matter of power executive, and belongs to a section of government which begins with Article 67 and ends with Article 68, where it is said: The prosecutor represents a public action in criminal proceedings, he also carries out other acts, if the law so provides. And in paragraph 2: The status and jurisdiction of the prosecutors' attorneys shall be determined by law. So, of course, Law No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which (?) In the opening preamble in Section 1, the general provisions elaborate this, but, of course, it acts in accordance with the Constitution, that is, it takes the prosecutor's office as part of the executive power, that is, a part representing the public action and representing it primarily as the central authority of executive and state administration, that is, the government. Otherwise, I would like to point out that any adjustment, and I understand that this is a matter of discussion, of the position of power, of the Government's powers must be bound by the fact that it primarily represents the public prosecutor's action. The government cannot be inactive and wait only for a certain moment of infringement or the expiry of the time limit for which the prosecutors are appointed. That is what I think would require a rethink of the Constitution, even if such a concept is possible, but then I think it takes a broad political consensus, and it cannot happen how many times what happens, when a change is quickly adopted under some public pressure, such as a direct election of the President, without adapting to the Constitution, and then any constitutional lawyer, any political party according to whose side he is currently standing, has his head wrapped up. From the point of view of the constitutional inclusion of public prosecutors in EU Member States, it is necessary to distinguish between three groups, plus minus, the concept of this inclusion. In one case, the prosecutors are discussing jurisdiction and the states of such a constitutional representation are, for example, Belgium, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Greece and Spain. The second option is to assume the status of the state prosecutor of sui generis as a separate body - perhaps we will work towards this in the Czech Republic - Ireland, Sweden. But the last option is that the prosecutor's office is not at all governed by the constitution - for example, Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, Germany, but also in neighbouring Austria or Great Britain. But what is important is that it is very often that the Supreme Prosecutor is in the position of one of the Deputy Ministers of Justice or the relevant central body of the state administration. I think that the proposal itself is wrong, that it devalues the position of the Czech Republic within the EU, and the amendments that colleagues are loading here, such as pirates, for whom some of you have a strong opinion, I think that even if they might have a relative point, they are on a broad debate, not on the rash sticking to this bill. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will not support this bill regardless of the amendments to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u63	Well, thank you. Now I have one point of fact here, and this is Mr Jakub Michálek, so the chairman of the Pirates Club. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u64	Just a quick request. Please, let us not question the expression of any status organizations to express themselves publicly and to present their views. I don't have to do some construction organizations. On the other hand, it was said here in this speech that the Union of Prosecutors' authorisation to comment on such a fundamental amendment to the Public Prosecutors' Act was called into question. According to what I found on the Internet, the Union of Prosecutors is also a voluntary construction and private association. And, of course, like any other private institution, it can express itself on such important matters of public interest. I think that this part of the speech was more consistent with the legislation that was in force 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u65	There. Now soon came another factual one. So Mr Grospič and Mr Pražák will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u66	By your means, Mr President, I would like to say to my previous speaker that I feel that they are the ones who are evoking the situation with their change, which was not only here 30 years ago, which may have been here somewhere when the fate of Austria-Hungary was broken and the new Czechoslovak Republic was born. But I didn't question the U.S. Attorneys' Union's comments on the amendment of the State Attorney's Act. I have questioned the legality of their expression in the course of criminal prosecutions and the termination of the prosecution of Andrej Babiš and statements aimed at the compatibility of the Office, holding the Office of the President. And I think that is a violation of the status honor and tasks of this organization. Prosecutors who are members of this institution should be primarily aware of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u67	Now we don't have any applications for a factual comment. Mr. Pražák withdrew. I have no application for a general debate, so I will look around the hall to see if there is any further interest in speaking. I don't see anybody, so I'm done with the debate if no one else is reporting. I'm asking for any final words. Madam Secretary is not interested. Mr. Výborný, you are not interested. So we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I'm gonna sing. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. I'll just report that Mr Julius Špičák has a replacement card number 15. So please the rapporteur of Mr Marek Výborný's guarantee committee, to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. There's an interest in checking you out, so I'm gonna check you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. [[He's waiting a while.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Government, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure will not be difficult. The Constitutional Committee recommends voting in the following order: First, the amendments under the heading. A1 to A3, together with one vote. Subsequently, Amendment B. If there is an amendment under the heading. B approved, it becomes an unvoting amendment A4. Consequently, the proposal would be voted under the heading. C. And then the bill as a whole. No legislative technical further proposals have been registered, or there is no need to vote on them in paragraph one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u69	Thank you. So I'll vote on the procedure. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 224 registered 159 Members, for 157, against none. The draft procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u70	Thank you. We will therefore now vote on Amendments A1 to A3 as adopted by the Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee at its meeting on 3 April. Just to clarify, these are three amendments. First of all, for the purposes of the Basic Registers Act, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is considered to be a public authority. Furthermore, the state's attorney's capacity to perform his duties. The third part concerns the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, including the sharing of property and the very things that govern the status of a European public prosecutor in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u71	There. I wanted to ask the technicians if Mr. Pražák's voting equipment is okay because there is a fact that Mr. Pražák has repeatedly reported to me that he has not served one. So the MP is able to vote from another place, I understand that, okay? [[Member Pražák shows no.]] No. Okay. So, because of the failure of Mr. Pražák's voting system, 15 minutes' pause on the basis of the request of the technicians. [[Objection from the diaper. They don't agree.]] They've requested 15 minutes. We'll meet here at 12.41. [[Members argue that Mr Pražák should change his seat.]] It can't be done because Mr. Pražák can't log out of the device for technical reasons, so he can't log in elsewhere. That's also the technical problem that's currently there. Okay, 15 minutes to pause. Let's meet if I count correctly at 12.41. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u72	Let's keep going. Just so you know, the reason was water in the voting device. I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Marek the Výborný, to come to the microphone. We have ended by remembering well that we voted for the procedure, and we will now continue, Mr rapporteur, by voting on individual amendments. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u73	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u74	Please, you have the floor. You introduced him to us, I think.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u75	I'll wait for the MPs to sit down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u76	Okay. I ask for peace of mind with the Chamber of Deputies, so that we may proceed. Once again, there's a check-out request. Yes, that's right, because we had a voting device malfunction. Please sign up again with your voting cards. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u77	Thank you. I'd rather say it again. The voting procedure will be as follows. We will vote on Amendments A1 to A3 together with one vote. What they're about, I've already said that, so I don't have to say it again. Then we will vote on the proposal under letter B. If this is approved, the proposal under letter A4 is unvoting. We will then vote on the proposal under letter C and then on the bill as a whole. It's a proposed procedure. I beg her approval, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u78	So we'll vote on approval of the procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 225 registered 155 Members, for 154, against 1. I'm of the opinion that the draft procedure has been accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u79	Thank you. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments under points A1 to A3 as they have already been presented to me. The Guarantee Constitutional Committee recommended the adoption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u80	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 226 registered 157 Members, for 130, against 19. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u81	Thank you. Then we have a proposal under letter B, which is my amendment, which has been tabled in accordance with the Ministry of Justice, so that we can respond to the length of negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies. It is very simple, it concerns the effectiveness it takes - it will take effect on the first day of the first calendar month following the date of its publication. Nothing else would make sense, not even the A4 proposal. Thank you for your support. The Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u82	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 227, 158 Members signed up, for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u83	Thank you. This has made Amendment A4 unvoteable. We can vote on the amendment under letter C, which was presented here in detail by Mr Michálek. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u84	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 228, 159 Members voted in favour of 52, against 89. The motion was denied. If I have the correct information, if I am following this correctly, all amendments have been voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u85	That's right, Mr. Vice-President. We can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-003-221.u86	We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure of the Court, as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 337, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Criminal Code]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 229 registered 159 Members, for 116, against 27. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you. Now I'm going to read one apology. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologises from 13:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. We will now proceed to the discussion of the next press. This is about
