ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u1	Joint debate on paragraphs 29 and 30 / House prints 645 and 506/ As I said before, there are Members who have priority rights. First will be President Farský, then President Radim Fiala and then President Pekarová Adamová. President Farský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement here for the Mayors and Independents' Club. We didn't join the veto because the situation is serious in its own time. We are now deciding on how graduations will take place in 2021, and when I put myself in the situation of those students, it's very unpleasant. They're supposed to determine where they're going to channel their maximum energy, and at this stage, math graduation is just too late, and in a few months, when we discuss this press, it's gonna be even closer to graduation. I suppose the power to cancel is here, and that's why we didn't vet because we already wanted to, even if we didn't agree, so with the students, we wanted it off the table. [[11.20 hours]] But what's going on here is the suggestion that it's being dealt with at the last minute, that Cermat is desperately failing here, but also political representation, and in this case the Ministry of Education, because coming two years before it's being remodeled, it's just wrong. If there's a need for long-term continuity and certainty, it's in education and education, it brings results. The moment politics goes through it, when part of the public rebels, that they are afraid of a long-term agreed way of working, and we jump out and meet their loud demands, we lose in total. It also shows that we still don't know, and now I speak for everyone, because I think that education should fall through individual political periods and should have a much greater continuity than just the four-year government. On the other hand, I must say that it is a good thing that the Minister has endured there beyond the average service life of ministers, because it is simply necessary for this resort to have some stability. What's still showing this debate is that we don't know what the adult exam, graduation, should actually look like. Debates about essays, their evaluation, math graduations. We just keep getting to the basics without having this closed down. From this point of view, we welcome the fact that the Minister has heard our requests that all political parties' experts actually meet here and look for solutions that will survive the term, which will be long-term precisely so that students, when choosing a school, know what awaits them at the end. By the way, I remember back in 1995, two years before graduation, when the rumour came that we'd have to graduate from math. And we were rebelling back then, too, and we said, well, you can't tell us during our studies, since we've been here for two years, saying that the conditions on which we started studying here are changing. Now we're doing it. [[Noise in the hall.]] So from this point of view, we're glad that the initiative is that it's being initiated by the Minister. It is important that we all meet at the same table and really discuss with long-term perspective the direction in which Czech education will take to match the changed situation of the 21st century, when it is no longer a problem to get the data, to get the facts, but to work with the data and facts, and we have also managed to face the fact that the world is simply changing and the possibility of applying is changing much faster than in the past. Such models that someone entered a factory near his home, where he lived his whole productive life, are already happening very rarely, but they were the rule before. For the Mayors and Independents, at the end of August, we presented our idea of what direction education should change. And with that, we will also approach this round table, which will be convened by the Ministry. We think that the state graduation has no justification and should end, that the final exam and its form should be on the decision of which secondary school, but that the state should determine some kind of high school minimum in a lighter and more demanding version, but so that the student can also do this during the course of the study and possibly repeat it in order to guarantee some minimum standard. But the comparability of maths at this point doesn't make sense. High school minimum is our foundation. What we would also like the high school to admit changes in the fact that, in addition, the minimum in the main subjects, which will be the minimum in high school and give the basis for world orientation, so that one can change one's career, was not once sent to one way at the entrance, whether to an eight-year high school or, for example, an apprentice school, but to change one's career several times in life, so apart from the minimum in the main subjects to give greater freedom to other subjects, to create a so-called buffet, where he will build his future and career out of a piece himself and corresponding to his abilities and skills. We are also convinced that Czech education is not good at the way it is starting and at a very early age the future, the career, the path that the student will continue. That is why we think it would be good to put schools under one roof so that the penetration between practical education and strictly study types is as big as possible. We are glad that such a round table will finally take place, because we think that this is the way to make education not only from elections to elections, from the exchange of ministers to the exchange of ministers, but to have the stability and duration that will ensure that students entering schools know under what conditions they will also finish and what it will mean for them. I think it is absolutely essential for our country, which is why we welcome and thank the calling of this round table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u3	Thank you. With a factual point, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u4	Thank you. I never thought I'd be able to. Since it is factual, I will try to be brief. There's been a lot of arguments. I will respond to both the Minister of Education and the previous speaker. But everything that falls here is such a general floscule as to why this school bill should be discussed. So I find all these arguments quite odd, because they were not discussed in tripartite, the Pedagogical Chamber, the Union of Academic Boards of Education Faculties gave a negative opinion on this. And, yes, I'm particularly sorry as a teacher for those students that we're always messing with them like that. But that's not a problem for the last few years. That's the problem with education since the '90s, 'cause it didn't matter, let's face it. It was never a force resort. And the only -- the only -- where education has to go back to is education. And we're not gonna talk about modern 21st century education or anything. As consistency in education is raised, so consistency in education is taught and taught. And this law, which from my point of view, I'm sorry, is pasquil and is to be discussed here in some shortened time period, which, thank God, has been vetoed. When it's been blowing off for so long, it's certainly not wise to rush something by presenting itself to a blind man. Well, that's not what our kids and our students and the cantors who are dedicated to them deserve. And as to the argument that math graduation is, another very strong argument is that, apart from the Czech language, one of the biggest time subsidies has been spent on it since primary school - in the first class three hours, in the second four, from the third five hours to graduation. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u5	I apologise, Madame, the time for a point of fact has ended. [[Mrs Majer: Thank you.]] Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Plaga. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam, thank you for your excited input into the debate. I agree with you that the goal is to educate schools. And here I was, in my opening words, talking about taking it back from the B, giving the math graduate responsibilities. And I admitted to the Department of Education, Youth and Sports that the state is unhappy. The condition is unhappy. The easiest thing I could do was close my eyes to it, because in 2021, the gymnastics will come to the rehearsal. And they don't have that kind of crappy success, so it would still look good. And in 2022, after this government's term of office, there would still be a problem. Politically, it would be best if I didn't do anything. You're right. But since the numbers I had shown myself, and I went into the details, into those tests, she showed the problem inside, so it's time to take off the glasses and say she's gonna solve some mandatory math exams, and admit that if we don't invest in the education system, and it takes a long time for those changes to take place there, unless we support the constant teaching of mathematics, techniques and change the content of education, that's about the modernity you were talking about. And we're back to square one. I also want schools to educate. But we must create conditions for them not only financial but also material. And if we fatally failed at something as a state, it's in support of teachers and directors. And that's what we're trying to fix. So we're in agreement. And one of my factual points is that you listed industry, tripartite, etc. And I'd like to fix you. Yes, I agree with you. But you're introducing the Pedagogical Chamber. Let's stop lying to each other. The teaching chamber is not a chamber in the sense of compulsory teacher membership. It is an interest group of several people who express themselves about everything, and it is not able to tell how many specific members it has, and to document their list - among other things. That means, please, don't argue... [[Attention on time.]] What I wanted to say, I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u7	Mrs Valachová's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u8	I don't know who overslept or who's sleeping right now. Anyway, by your means, Mr President, Minister Plaga, you were the political Deputy Minister Chládek, which means you were part of the management of the resort, which sent a proposal such that the compulsory mathematics graduation, and you had to agree to it, will be in 2017. Okay, just so we're clear. As for sleeping, this House, at least half of its colleagues and colleagues, did not sleep, on the contrary, postponed the start of compulsory mathematics by five years in 2016 and since September 2015 the vast majority of the fields have increased their grant from mathematics. Among other things, this may indicate the results of PISA. More in your general contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u9	Thank you and we will continue with priority rights. The President of Radim Fiala is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief statement on the veto in accordance with Section 90. We partly agree with one part, with the other part of the merged debate, with the other part of the bill, we do not agree at all, but that does not mean that we want to block these laws somehow. We believe that students should know what graduation will be as soon as possible, so we are only interested in submitting amendments to these press at second reading, and therefore we have blocked negotiations under Section 90. However, in agreement with the petitioners and with the rapporteur of the two prints, I will personally adopt a proposal to shorten the deadline for 35 days, because we have calculated that in 35 days we are able to discuss it in committees, and that is direct proof that no one is interested in blocking or pervading these laws and we simply want them to be discussed, but it is disproportionately better discussion than under Section 90. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u11	Thank you. It is Mrs Pekarová Adamová's turn with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just very brief. Of course, this situation is not at all happy for the school directors themselves or for the students themselves, but we did not support the '90s veto, we did not want because we think that it should be clear as soon as possible that everyone should know what to prepare for. The fact that it is this way from the wall to the wall, as the public can say, means that one term will be implemented and before it even starts to apply, it will be cancelled again, but it is not only in this area. It is such a mischief that occurs here in other areas of politics, and I think it is exactly what people's confidence in our decisions does not strengthen, but, on the contrary, it weakens very much. As far as math graduation is concerned, we have both opinions. Both that it should be mandatory and the one that says it should be optional. Perhaps it is slightly outweighing that the obligation should not be introduced at all, and I also take the view, because I do not think that it is possible to build a house from a roof. It is necessary that we first strengthen the teaching of mathematics so that it is attractive that the methods that we have used often for decades should be innovative and adapted to the 21st century, but it is also important that we focus generally on graduation as a whole, so that we do not select just one subject and revise the overall settings of our maths. Because I remember the time when compulsory graduation was introduced as part of the state graduation and was accompanied by the words that it would actually be a ticket to those who successfully graduated, to universities without having to pass entrance exams, and that would actually create a kind of filter in who actually has what possibilities to continue studying. And we all know that it doesn't really work that way, that there's a lot of controversy about math every year, so let it be about the evaluation of their common parts, whether it's about leaked tests, etc. So the overall approach to graduation should be subject to a large analysis and subject it to a real test that really makes sense, which is not only an unwelcome duty, but which will really make a greater contribution to the students. I am glad that in the 20 30+ strategy, this concept of graduation is being analysed and proposed by an innovative approach, and I hope that we will be moving in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mihola is next in the general debate, Mr Vondrák will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, after long discussions on compulsory math graduation in the last parliamentary term, we are returning to this issue again. Besides, it's not the first time, and I don't think it's the last time. It can be said that such a big discussion on the introduction of compulsory mathematics graduation was in 2004 and certainly before, but it is not necessary to go back to the very past. After the compulsory mathematics graduation was enforced, a government proposal is now coming in which its implementation in 2021, which is almost behind the door, pushing away or delaying. Now we're witnessing a kind of ping-pong here, actually, between the minister of existing, ex-ministers, who's more responsible, or who's running this proposal to be mandatory, and who's just taking over and who's holding it back, etc., but I don't think the students or the public really need to care about it, because to become detectives who did something, things are just supposed to work. I can say for myself that I am in favour of the math graduation being at least postponed, and I prefer, quite frankly, to be optional, as it is so far. I say this as a grandson of the founder of the Jedovnic industrialist and a person who certainly respects his fellow mathematics and mathematics as a field of study, among other things because, unlike history and social sciences, the ideology cannot fall on it. However, I am in favour of continuing to be optional because I myself, as a senior in 1990, took advantage of the first option of mathematics not to graduate. And even though I don't have a math degree, I don't feel like I'm being inferior. I never felt that I was suffering from anything, and believe me, I also did subjects that had something to do with math and college, for example, with mathematical geography. Whoever studied geography knows that, but it's certainly possible without a math degree. In my opinion, we should also think about the profile of the alumni in the future, what is expected of him. I'm always giving the example when someone gets a classic high school degree, so I'm especially interested in how this guy controls languages, and when I say that by saying how he cuts Latin, and not if he's really excellent at mathematics, because I assume he's going in that direction when he chooses such a high school, and he's going to continue to pursue linguistics. We too can finally adjust the demands of universities. Where we know that math is needed, the students must know that it is needed and that they simply have to graduate from mathematics and not play that it must be mandatory for everyone, even for those who actually don't need it at all. So I'm sure there's a way to treat it. [[11.40 hours]] I also do not like the various claims that pupils do not control mathematics, fear it, etc. There's been some experience here for 30 years, there's been some discussion and there's some responsibility here, so I think, above all, from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I don't think we can work with arguments like math school is a scarecrow. Some people are afraid of Czech or dictation or somebody can't write essays. So we're going to discuss canceling Czech soon? Probably not, or I hope not. So I really don't consider these arguments to be happy. I also find it trivial: within the system we are not able to provide all students with sufficient preparation for this exam. I wouldn't even put that on the air. And then many, and from different sides, now it's not just a matter of course the ministry, they're stuck by the need to increase quality. Please, let's be aware of that, not today, but I think we're about to discuss the law on teaching workers. So when someone's so liberal, he's gonna say again, it doesn't really matter if he's a qualified or unqualified teacher, let's just think about the math. You know, I believe that in itself, that teacher almost everyone controls mathematics as science when he graduated. But maybe the hardest part is having the know-how to hand over the math so that it doesn't turn out to be the scarecrow, or not to worry about what a failed math degree would be. I would like mathematics to be a useful subject and to be as close to practice as possible. You know, as a guy who had six hours of mathematics of the week, he counted all those Běloun people, remember, those white textbooks where there were only examples, tasks, so I feel like I really took very little advantage of that practice. Which I'm sorry, because I'd like there to be more. And to invoke that it develops logic - so logic develops everything, not just mathematics. And how is that measurable? I don't know, maybe it's signed up somehow, but it's pretty hard to measure. That's what they say. I think it's being developed by other objects. Let's face it, there was plenty of time to change the content of the subject, which is often referred to. Instead, I took part in several seminars, and I also have representatives from various associations and groups who, on the contrary, are travelling to make math compulsory. I'm trying to listen to them, but what I saw mostly was that classical math teachers were clashing, just the way it is, with the alternative methods. That's what I noticed mostly. So one of them barked that the Hejný method, that no, others held that we should let those alternatives in when it turned out 30 years that the mathematics, instead of being better with it, was worse and became the scarecrow. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that this example of the bill is a beautiful proof of how things need to be thought over, especially in the field of education, and how we should look for consensus and support in the future, ladies and gentlemen, wider than coalition. Coalitions are changing, and we know that the inertia in education is long. And then it doesn't matter who pulls the hot chestnuts or just solves the established nonsense. After all, we may all have some children or grandsons in this, so it can no longer be an issue for us and we should really have a debate before the decisive steps, and not something to push quickly with the force just for example coalition. It really takes revenge and keeps coming back. I just think it's a mistake when something happens a few years ago, and now we're reaching exactly the opposite step. It's like a French comedy style. One hot and the other straight. And I think it's good to point out that now that we're in such a hurry, as it was in the '90s, I don't understand why the proposal didn't come sooner and didn't take precedence over other proposals that could definitely wait. I feel like it was with my colleague Barton and the other pirates that I signed the proposal with them, so I can report that we, on the contrary, encouraged the government to be here already. I acknowledge that the government has its advantages and has a certain guarantee that it should pass, so I will support it, but it must also be stressed here that basically someone else took advantage of it, or that it was also created as a parliamentary initiative. Let us learn from this, please, and let us not make mistakes in the future. It's really about the students so they don't have a question mark all the time. It is not fair and it is not good for education as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u15	Thank you. In the meantime, several apologies have come up, which I will now introduce you to. Mr Jan Volný apologizes on 5 and 6. 12. due to illness. Mrs Karla Maříková apologizes today from 13:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Venhoda apologizes for today's meeting from 11.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Jana Pastuchová, from 13:00 to 14:00, for family reasons. And Mr Patrik Nacher from today's meeting from 11 to 14 o'clock for work reasons. With a point of fact, Mrs Valachová is registered, then Minister Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u16	I'm just, of course, to my dear colleague, Jiří Mihol. I have to turn against some ping-pong. It wasn't about ping-pong, it was more about facts, because I think both political parties are in the political leadership of the resort for a long time. Even since 2013. And, of course, that should be the answer to the debate. And I also stood up for my colleague Zuzana Majerčíková, because this is really not about the Chamber of Deputies, this is about what we have done at the moment and how we are going to move on, and it is about working together. Anyway, even though Jiří Mihola's disappeared, I'm definitely in good health - yes, no, I can see him - I'm definitely in good health to the toxic industry. Jedovnické průmyslovce zdravo!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u17	The Minister canceled his point of order. It is now Mr Vondrák's turn in the debate, Mr Baxa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u18	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we can expect anything from the former Rector of Technical University other than what I say, but I think it should have some rational consideration and, above all, we should come out of the context in which we find ourselves. And I would like to start by quoting on the four points I have here from the report on the onset of the mathematics exam as a mandatory examination of the joint part of the graduation exam which the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports issued in February 2017. Don't worry, I'm not gonna read the whole thing. It's about 25 pages. I'll just take the last paragraph for the presentation. And he argues: Mathematical education contributes to the above-mentioned objective of secondary education to an undeniable degree. Prepare a young person for life in today's society means, among other things, that he must understand mathematics, because the number of problems and situations from both normal and professional life, for whose understanding and solution a certain level of mathematical knowledge, mathematical thinking and mastering mathematical instruments is still growing. Mathematics becomes one of the key tools young people need to handle challenges and problems in personal, professional, social and scientific life. - So that's point one. Point two. What has changed to date 6. 12. 2019? Nothing. Mathematics is always the same, it's still a scarecrow, and young people are afraid of it. Limitably, the results that have been shown in this are zero. And I can confirm that from a personal empire, because I'm still teaching doctoral students, and sometimes I'm afraid that what a doctoral student doesn't know at college today, 30 years ago, those who went to college could do. How to get out of it. We basically have three instruments, three degrees of freedom. The first one is offered by the minister, that's the trivial solution, we'll just cancel it. I'm sorry - we'll postpone for eight years, that's equal to cancel, we all know that. I don't think it's good because we haven't even tried it, and the hard data we're talking about here is just data. The information hidden in them basically speaks of something else. Let's not confuse the cause with the consequences. The fact that we have a low success rate at graduation is a consequence of the fact that math is hard to learn, has to learn for a long time, and is about to change the teaching. That's the first thing. Secondly, I am in favour of a clear rethink of the state graduation system. I consider the text, which you will fail by one point and thus fail at graduation, to be unfortunate. I think, and each of us elders remembers, graduation had an oral part. And the oral part is to prove what we know about math. The fact that we're going to make a numerical mistake or something that can actually happen at the pressure of that test... I just have to be able to fix myself. Let's change that. Let's look for a way. And by the way, that should have happened a long, long time ago, and it's not happening. And the third thing I have here is to rethink the disciplines that we really should have in math. You know, I'm still a grad student when we had three types of high school courses. It was mathematical-physical, naturalistic and humanitarian. Mathematical-physical had a math test and also an oral exam, science subjects had only the oral one and did not have humanities. And I think we need to start talking about it and figure out where the math is. And I'm saying that these disciplines are still growing. It's not just technical, it's natural science, but today even medicine can't do without mathematics, and I think there's a whole bunch of other disciplines that just need the math. You know, we have a new password - Czech Republic: The Country for the Future. Please, artificial intelligence is about mathematics, and it's very challenging. So if we want to use math, it's not about how I've heard - I'm going to put it in the calculator, and something works out for me. I just have to understand what that calculator is counting for me. Well, I'm getting to the last point, and that's very brief. I'd like to say that putting the problem behind us won't solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u19	Thank you. There are two factual points. First is Mr Bartoň, then the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u20	Thank you. I would have responded to my previous speaker. Mathematical education certainly does. I fully support mathematical education, I fully support digital literacy, I fully support education in the field of modern history. But I don't need them as a mandatory subject at graduation. When I take it, mathematical education is necessary for life. But if we have math as a compulsory graduation course, we're saying that no one is allowed to pursue any other higher profession, they can't go to college if they don't graduate from this graduation course. I'm just gonna take a look at Mrs. Mauritzová over there, who started the Faculty of Medical Studies. There's a three-year field of bachelor rescue. Does a paramedic have to have a math degree? I don't think so. I think he's supposed to be professional, have the knowledge he needs for his profession. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u21	Thank you. A real remark from Minister Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. I was expecting the debate on compulsory math graduation to be a debate that would break up clubs. And I want to thank Ivo Vondrák for his entry. Because even though we're different in the finals, that is. If this exam is mandatory, we agree on everything that's passed before. And now I'm going to say one thing, and I'm going to say it a few more times during this hearing. Regardless of how it will end up voting on the responsibilities of mathematics graduation, so it grosses the whole problem and whether we will have new generations of people who will be able to use math and have it mathematical education and will be able to critically think, lies actually in the teaching, in its quality, in the support of teachers. I don't think that's gonna happen by making this math test mandatory. But in the fact that mathematical education is crucial, we want people to understand mathematics - now I quote what was in the report and what Ivo Vondrák quoted - that it is a key instrument, we agree on that. We also agree that he should learn better. We agree that it might be better - and I desire it to be - an adaptation test, i.e. not to succeed there - failed, but to see people leave with, for example, the test that tells how much they succeeded. And, of course, a debate about the oral exam and content without checking whether there should be a project that would show the knowledge of etc. more comprehensively, that is exactly the debate that I was encouraging to subsequently regardless of this material or the merged debate of two documents. This is a key debate on education, and I thank you for that. One comment at a time. Ivo, if they're doctoral students and they're underprepared, they've probably had a Master's degree before, so besides doing something in regional education, it would be good to do something in that Master's degree in specific schools. But they're not just PhD students. That's an appeal to college, not towards you. The quality should also be raised in universities, but of course the mandatory part is that they come well prepared from primary and secondary schools. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u23	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, with a factual point, will follow the factual remarks made by Members Kasal, Bělica and Svoboda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u24	Lukáš Bartoni through the President. My favorite colleague, too. You also ran awfully into that mention of health professionals and medical disciplines. According to the regulations of the Government of Mathematics from graduation, high school health disciplines are not mandatory at all. Once again, it doesn't. And if you mean not to graduate high school from mathematics, then I'm just reminding the Minister of Education that there's nothing to fear here. [[with emphasis]] [[repeats]] And frankly, through the President, what would the Minister of Education be afraid of, if he is not afraid of the strongest undoubtedly a professional organisation, the professional force of the Association of Gymnasiums, which seeks to introduce it as a regular part of the common part of mathematics graduation, is being pursued.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u25	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I will also comment on Mr Bartoň through you. But I'll take it a little bit as a teacher, de facto a non-teacher. I'll follow up with Professor Vondrák. Mathematics should be part of the way we speak the Czech language. As a doctor, when I came to my first year of college, the first thing that was there was biophysics, and a few colleagues flew into that biophysics before they scratched into being doctors. It's the same with the sisters. Now that my sisters come in, they can't count the number of drops on an IV. This is a complete basis of what is in all fields, so mathematics should be part of every education. And if we take, even with regard to those fields where graduation isn't now, in high schools, she should also be there, because those who are produced and run the medical facilities, so they fill out enough tables and have to make plans and use math, they prepare budgets. It's the foundation of everything we have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u27	Thank you. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes for family reasons between 13.15 and 14.00. Mr Josef Bělica will now speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've only been very brief. I'm a man who graduated from the Czech language. I would like to ask for a fair argument from the rapporteur, Mr Bartoň, because I am, in addition to graduating from mathematics, optionally took a degree in physics because I wanted to go to the engineering school. Mr. Colleague, for me, the greatest stress was the graduation from the Czech language, believe it or not, but I will also not argue here that I have never used it in my life, that the Czech language was useless to me in engineering. I just don't want to get into that argument that math is useless. Because you don't see it there. I think math is very important, it's the foundation of education. And so as we accept as a premium today that a certain level of Czech language is simply necessary for you to have a graduation exam, so it should also be from mathematics. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u29	Have a nice noon. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will speak with a factual remark and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm actually gonna talk to everyone who's been talking in those short shows. I am convinced that we are dealing with a matter that has a number of different inputs. One entry is a grammar school, a grammar school that actually educates me to study any college in general. And then there are specialized schools that prepare for who will be involved in technology or natural sciences. The need for mathematics in fields that do not look like medicine or health care is enormous. I've been the dean since the beginning, which means since 1990, I've been following the results of our students based on how they ended up with the interview. Minister and everyone else, I am telling you very clearly that all this time the strongest prediction factor for whether this student will succeed and graduate, even if he will be successful as a doctor, the greatest prediction factor, the strongest, is actually physics, because we don't try mathematics. And it's absolutely clear in modern medicine, and I'm convinced who's studying high school and graduating from it that she has the right to go to college because she's only prepared for that. If he's studying some other school, we should be talking about whether he has math or not, letting those schools decide. They should know if their graduates will or won't need it. And if they're wrong and they make the wrong choice, the students won't go there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u31	Next, Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will make a point of fact. Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u32	Thank you. I here have to respond to some of my previous speakers who put in my mouth, as if I said that education in mathematics is unnecessary. There's no way I said that. I said math graduation wasn't that important. That education in mathematics is good, certainly. A colleague of the previous speaker who went to the Faculty of Engineering - yes, I was teaching at the Faculty of Engineering and I also complained about the level of students going there with mathematical education, but I never said anything against having to have a math degree from everyone, even one who wants to go to the Humanities. And a colleague named Valachová. You know, through Mr President, I didn't say anything about high school graduation conditions. I was talking about a bachelor's degree at the Faculty of Health Studies, where there is a condition of graduation for admission. [[Mrs Valachová is speaking from the bench.]] Yes. And there's got to be a graduation. The moment we introduce a compulsory math degree for everyone, everyone has to have a compulsory math degree to be accepted at the Faculty of Medical Studies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u33	Now I have two factual points here. Jakub Michálek, Chairman of the Pirates Club, will be the first to perform. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u34	I'm glad we have a discussion that connects us, because almost everyone can express themselves because almost everyone here is graduating, so it also woke me up. And yet, when there was this love of mathematics, I studied mathematics and physics, and I have love for them, even though I'm doing politics now. But I think that we can agree here, just like they did in the UK, that, of course, some level of knowledge in mathematics and Czech is desirable, and that there should be some kind of test, like in the UK, where it's done somewhere freshman or sophomore year, but then the graduation, which is already specialized and which today includes counting with logarithms and I don't know, poetic figures like epizeuxis and the like, so we can just leave it to those who really choose this area. So I think it should apply not only to mathematics, but also to the literature that is now involved in the Czech language. This is what I think is a solution to how we can get out of this and focus on making those things that are in that common base, such as fractions, percentages, and the like, which therefore fall into the elementary school, so that really people who pass the basic exam can do this, like when whips, because a lot of people who go through our schools today, so they graduate from mathematics, they graduate English, but they don't speak English, they don't even know basic numbers. And that's something we should be dealing with. But I'm sure we can't solve this with a math degree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u35	Now, with Mrs Kateřina Valachová's point of fact and Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u36	I wanted to be kind, but I can't. So it's pretty sharp. What's our status at the moment? The state is that in 2021, they are to graduate for the first time so that in a common part of the graduation they have the Czech language, foreign language and mathematics gymnastics - 2021 and 2022, meaning in two years; 2022 - they are to graduate for the first time so that in their common part they have a mathematics, a Czech language and a foreign language of secondary vocational school. Now, look out, here it comes. The fact that the previous government postponed the start of my mathematics graduation, this House - half of it, we have new MPs - five years later, so it was connected with the fact that Members and Members wished that if I joined the Gymnasium or as a candidate or as a graduate, I would apply, get in, so that I would know, and that is honest what school I am applying to and from which I will graduate. That is why the government has already adopted a regulation in December 2016 when it has calculated the fields to be covered by the secondary vocational schools of mathematics - here I am following the President's decision to the Professor Svoboda - and there, my colleague, since December 2016, all medical disciplines have been listed. That's why I took the liberty of mentioning it, and nothing will change about that today, tomorrow or 2022, unless, of course, we change the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u37	Mr Jiří Mašek, on the final point of fact. In the general debate, Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was a little awakened by the debate on math graduation. I would like to follow up on a number of previous speakers, in particular I would recall those 40 years back as Professor Vondrák, that it just worked, and we should not be afraid to go back to some of the things that worked. It's a question at these grammar schools that they were matphyz classes, they were science and humanities, and so on. As far as health is concerned, I am following up on my colleague Kasal through Mr President, there I am clearly convinced that there is sufficient time for the teaching of mathematics at the medical school. I am convinced that it is necessary to constantly test those students and students, and to test them thoroughly to advance to the next years, but there is no need for a nurse to be able to calculate the number of drops in the infusion, to actually have a graduation. And in the current critical state, which concerns the lack of medical personnel, let's understand, most nurses, so it's a moment, if there was a mandatory graduation, it would be a moment for girls and boys not to report to these schools. I know that this is not about health schools at the moment, and if this is not about compulsory mathematics, health schools and some other listed schools, I think that it is certainly necessary to consider and promote it, or for grammar schools, for secondary vocational schools, etc. [[12.10 hours]] In addition to Mr Bartoňův's follow-up, then also to Kateřina Valachová through Mr President. When it comes to entering a high school in Bachelor's degree medical paramedics, so if there is no graduation, as is currently not mandatory from mathematics in high school medical school, then there will not be a condition for these students to enter university. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u39	I now have three factual points, so the order will be: Mr Jiří Kobza, Mrs Mauritzová and Mr Bartoň. Mr Kobza, I'm gonna ask you for a performance and two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, nice guests, hello. I graduated, too, about 40 years ago. I graduated from mathematics, and then high school, high school, it wasn't about studying there, who wanted to, but who could do it. And I think it was quite a pragmatic approach, because from our 30th grade, some 24 of us went to college. What disturbs me a little is that I have read the programs of nonprofit organizations, People in Need, etc., who have a teacher training program, where the degree of school ideology actually exceeds the degree of teaching the empirical, factual one. So here I would like to call for a system of less ideology and more mathematics and physics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u41	Mrs Ilona Mauritzová will now appear and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u42	So I would like to comment on the medical disciplines, Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues. Of course, those who apply for a bachelor's degree in universities report to students from all high schools. That means they're not just high school students. And that's very important. The second thing is that the teaching of mathematics at secondary schools is definitely important and it needs to be sufficiently secured, because without the knowledge of mathematics students can't do without the knowledge of mathematics. And perhaps, since I still have a moment, I agree with many of the things that have fallen from Professor Vondrák. We're a similar year, so I also graduated from science school, and I think we need to open up a discussion about how to graduate from mathematics, not how to teach it, because we're supposed to teach it, which I think we're all in agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u43	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, rapporteur, will appear and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u44	Thank you. She already told Mrs. Mauritzová for me. Of course, students from all schools enter the Faculty of Health Studies, not only from high schools. That's the point. Medical high school students may not have math at graduation, but everyone else, except art, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u45	Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now make a final point of fact, so Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u46	I have a feeling that mathematics is actually reflected in this debate, because the exchange of views between me and Mr Barton is, I would say, logic and sets. First of all, about art schools. Mr. Colleague, imagine that even I can be a veterinary paramedic - or sorry, the field, let me not break it down, as I said. Please, I'll get to that in the general contribution. The point is that we have the education system set up to face - I say face - because we say this for several years - that the output from grammar school and from any secondary vocational school is the same within the framework education programme. That's why we have the same math, that's why we're going to do it. Then, of course, we have a decision on some professional specialization. That's why I've been bumping into it, those medical schools, that, from my point of view, there was no logic, this performance of yours. And then, of course, we have a gymnasium branch, and here I followed up on the previous speakers, that yes, from grammar school, if I go to grammar school, so generally assumed, but also it may not be true, I may decide to be a cashier and sell somewhere in the store, but it is assumed that if you go to grammar school and graduate, then you will study college. They're some assumptions. But once again, what is important and what we may be biking in, and I will do it as part of my general performance, the point is that today, both high school and secondary vocational school by law and under the framework education programme, I note, which is entirely in the power of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the outputs are identical. I'm just saying, that's the way we look.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u47	Now a factual point - Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Last one so far. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. You have two minutes to express yourself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u48	Thank you. I just need less to get my colleague Baxa to speak. It's just my reaction to my colleague Valachová. I am convinced that the output from all schools, from all types of schools, is not the same. The man chose the school with an idea of his next life's destiny, and so he chose the technical one to do the technique, so he chose the natural one to do something else. It's not the same output. That is why we should also work differently, because the decision is decisive. The child or his parents decided to do something, and we should adjust it to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u49	I will now request a speech from Mr Martin Baxa and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I allow myself to have a slightly longer contribution this time, and because of my voice indisposition, I also provided myself with a warm drink, so I apologize for drinking during my performance. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this point is really one of the most important ones that we are discussing in the field of education during this entire parliamentary term, and I say this introduction so that I start my contribution by criticizing the Ministry of Education and Minister Plaga, who knows that I do not like this procedure, which he has chosen, and I want to stress it here. On the one hand, on the other hand, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Minister personally work very commendably on very important strategic materials in the field of education, which is a long-awaited and now successfully presented 2030+ strategy, which is intended to outline the long-term functioning of Czech education, which should be based on other principles, or at least partly on principles other than those currently in question, but on the other hand, Minister, you are now proposing to change the graduation exam in a very accelerated, hasty regime. You even tried to push through the House this proposal under Section 90 and I am very glad that this did not happen. You did not have enough expert discussions about this proposal, and I think you have behaved very insatiably against a number of professional organisations who wanted to discuss the content and did not actually have the opportunity to do so. We must honestly say that, in fact, the only more concrete outcome or discussion prior to the discussion of this proposal in the House was the seminar organised by Mr Bartoň, which was meant to concern the general future of the graduation exam, not the proposal that you are proposing, Minister. Among other things, Mr Bartoň's seminar has prompted a number of responses, which neither you nor the Ministry of Education have personally responded to. So I consider this to be a big mistake, and I consider it to be a thing that largely degenerates this whole serious discussion of what a graduation exam should look like and generally end high school education. I mention this here because we therefore formally have a debate on both the proposals, both the government and the group of Members, which Mr Bartoň has prepared and where I am a co-president and which points to one of the serious problems of Czech education, which is early departures from secondary education, when the proposal that we are putting forward could relieve this situation. [[12.20 hours]] Why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, did I combine the criticism in which I mentioned the 2030+ Strategy and the proposal concerning the reform of the graduation exam? I, despite criticism - and I would like to emphasise sharp criticism - support the proposal in my essence. This means a proposal to reform the graduation exam in both parts. This means the withdrawal of the two compulsory subjects of state graduation into the form of didactic tests, i.e. the Czech language, and either mathematics or foreign language, as well as the abolition of compulsory graduation from mathematics. And the main reason I have for this, and that is why I am putting it together with the strategy, is that I believe that the key task for the Czech education system and for the players in Czech education for the next years is that we should actually decide how secondary education should be completed in general. That's why I mentioned the seminar here. I am actually convinced of this, and my opinion may be radical, but I want it to be said here that the current form of the so-called. State graduation is inoperable, inappropriate and does not actually meet any of the objectives in which we should be, the one that we should follow in the education system. The fact that we have one type of graduation exam on the one hand for grad students or for grad students at grammar schools, on the other hand for various vocational schools with graduation, the fact that it was not accepted that state graduation was any basis for admission to university, the fact that there are mistakes every year in the preparation of state degrees of different types, the fact that the conditions for changing the way state graduation is to take place in the given school year from year to year, the fact that the role of state graduation in the education system is still being questioned, in my opinion, simply leads to the fact that we need to think about how the graduation should look, and from that a simple shortcut to my own opinion on this. If the three-subject state graduation should be launched at the moment, then the obligation to graduate from mathematics should not be abolished, so these changes will be made more difficult. At the moment, if a state graduation system based on three graduations were launched, it would, in my view, make it very difficult to discuss the state graduation and its form in any way. Among other things, it is such one of the classic knowledge of education science that what these key tests look like at the individual nodal points of education is fundamentally affecting the form of education prior to the relevant test. So if we were to hypothetically talk about some kind of education reform, a reduction in content, framework education programs, an improvement in teaching methods, a differentiation in education, and on the other hand, just give a compulsory math degree and, in fact, three state graduations, it's in direct contradiction. That is the basis of my argument on why I support this proposal, although I am a sharp critic of what path it has chosen. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the second part of the government proposal and our proposal, where I am co-submitor, is actually reducing the state graduation exam into the form of didactic tests. It would also be fair, Minister, to point out that not all actors in education agree with this. I will mention the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums, mention the Czech Association, some professional associations of education in foreign languages that defend the form of state graduation in foreign languages and Czech. However, based on my various discussions, calls to experts, I support the proposal, and I think it's the right thing to do. In particular, although I am an acknowledgment teacher of geography and history at grammar school, not a czech teacher, even as if from my teaching practice I can see that the system of this, I would say in quotes, remotely correcting written works from the Czech language is actually contrary to how to evaluate the progress of a pupil or student who will make during the relevant years of secondary school studies. That's what I think is one of those crucial arguments. And I must say that I do not agree with the so-called so-called critical argument that has not yet been expressed here, which was said that the teachers were so-called. trying to help those children to correct these tests, I think it is to a large extent an expression of some distrust in the professional qualifications of high school teachers who are really engaged in the honest preparation of their pupils, and they also honestly correct the written work. So I agree with the didactic test reduction. But again, I draw attention to what remains a little hidden in the discussion. I mean, the center... the organisation, which is generally referred to as CERMAT in the school environment, has repeatedly made errors in the preparation of these tests. I want to say it this way, however seriously for employees of Cermat, it may affect them, but year after year it just happens that there is a poorly formulated question that some topics sound too strongly than others and so on. It's just something that should be dealt with. Now, to the very essence and that is to preserve the possibility of graduating from a foreign language and mathematics. That means the choice. I was doing, like, a scan of how it is in Europe when I was preparing for my performance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not what I heard in the public debate that we are one of the last countries in Europe who does not have a compulsory math degree. It's not true at all. I think that explicitly compulsory math graduation is, I think, in eight states in Europe in some form that is adequate. On the other hand, however, I also have to add correctly that the methods of leaving high school are really diverse and that what is called graduation is far from everywhere either. If I should give an example of a country where, for example, compulsory mathematics graduation in that traditional form is, then it is the current Austria. But as I say, the minority of countries in Europe is the one where they're compulsory math graduates. I also want to stress that I had a discussion on whether or not to maintain compulsory mathematics graduation, in relation to the law we have before us, with different actors in education from different types of secondary schools. I myself taught almost twenty years at the grammar school, where compulsory mathematics graduation is not really a topic, where for our seniors there is no obligation to graduate mathematics, no threat, no problem, and if you look at the RIA for that government bill, that's what the data confirms. For grammar school this graduation is not an obstacle. On the other hand, when we talk about vocational schools where they teach graduates, not only are the numbers that show the degree of failure, so the statistics themselves and my interviews with them, with the directors of these schools, point to the fact that mathematics graduation is an obstacle to the students of these schools. I spoke to the director of the secondary vocational school in my opinion and opinion, for example, the Czech School Inspectorate of high quality in Kladno, Mělník, and they draw attention to this with great urgency. But ladies and gentlemen, not with the argument that they would somehow like to relieve their students, but with the argument that for the curiculum they have at that school, for the framework education programme, respectively. school education program, according to which they learn, so they're not set to eventually direct those children, or those pupils, to automatically master compulsory math graduation. I have to very much resist an argument that unfortunately often sounds in public space that we actually have two categories of high school students. Those who can master high school and high school - and they're great. And then those who don't have what it takes -- and they should actually go to those schools and master those schools. Then I want to reject this very hard - and it is in sharp conflict with what we should be aiming for, that is, giving every pupil an opportunity. That's exactly what the high school principal in Kladno said. I have pupils of different types, and I try to help each of these pupils to eventually grow to the successful graduation of the relevant field, whether a senior or a non-graduate student. Or to close their eyes to the fact that graduates of some type of high school education at the State Mathematics Graduate, which they choose, are not successful, in my opinion, is an expression of such a kind of respect for simply part of the educated pupils. As if to shrug your shoulders over it, so they don't do it, at least the disciplines will clear up, it is, in my opinion, a real disrespectful and unprofessional opinion that sounds in such a discussion. At the same time, I would like to point out that in a number of these fields, mathematics is usually and quite demanding and that those pupils would not have mastered graduation without having completed their studies of mathematics. This is just about success or failure at different types of schools. [[12.30 hours]] In addition to this argument that we are about to throw a part of the high school students into a test that they are not well enough, or for which they are not prepared well enough, but for various reasons, not because they are not enough for themselves or because the schools are bad enough, so there is the argument itself, as high school mathematics is actually learning. Because, as I was saying, I am my professorship gymnasial or high school teacher of geography and history, so I finally decided instead of some of my thoughts here to read you such an article, or a text written by a secondary school teacher of mathematics, a graduate of mathematics at the Mathematical-physics Faculty, that is, a person who is at first sight in the way the public debate about this simplistically leads, destined to defend the state's mathematics graduation. So allow me to maybe a little longer, but I think usefully here he read a significant part of the article by doktor Luděk Šnirch What we expect from compulsory mathematics graduation. There are various time data, so I will just state that this article was published on 27 September of this year, which means it already contains the figures from this spring's term of state math: I often come across the view that compulsory mathematics is the right direction for education for the future. The authors give a lot of undisputed reasons why they teach mathematics. But are these also the reasons for compulsory mathematics graduation, in addition to being unified for all types of schools? Skills that mathematics can develop. Quality teaching of mathematics helps to build the skills that a graduate in the 21st century needs in both professional and personal life: teaches diligence; leads to endurance and logical thinking; teaches to understand the principle of the problem, to be able to react flexibly; it builds systematic thinking in context and strengthens thoroughness and sharpness. This is especially true when the student is motivated internally and thanks to the appropriate form of teaching and the teacher has the chance to understand and understand them. That is why high school mathematics is also taught. But what does this have to do with having to graduate from mathematics in almost all secondary schools? A rhetorical question. After nine years of the Single Mathematical Graduation Test, the following questions are offered: Did testing contribute to achieving the required skills of graduates? Has testing called for a change in the quality of mathematics, a change in student and teacher approach? Are students voluntarily graduating from mathematics internally motivated to understand mathematics? And are they successful in understanding mathematics? United State Math Graduation, current model. - By the way, I'll put a note in it, maybe it's helpful in itself that all those who want to listen to this debate know exactly what they're talking about in the case of math graduation. - The Didactic Test of Mathematics consists of 26 tasks that contain 37 separately evaluated questions. Half of the points can be obtained in questions where the senior chooses from the offered options and where exactly one option is the right, so-called closed task. The second half of the points can be obtained by their own formulation of the answer, but for only four questions, the whole procedure is evaluated. For the remaining ones, only the result. It is clear that this model was chosen mainly for ease of evaluation of tests by computer. This also serves a single form for writing a reply, which Cermat subsequently evaluates. The single State Mathematical Graduation now has, among other things, the following characteristics: The Maturant has about three minutes of time for one question, he has to handle 37 questions in 120 minutes. Instead of compiling equations and formulas that are called for so much, it is preferred to insert into formulas and numerical calculation. If the question of the compilation of an expression or equation occurs, the high percentage of primary graduates who voluntarily chose their math degree fail each year. For example, this spring question number 3.2 had 85 percent failure, including the vast majority of gymnastics. Calculation technique is not allowed for state graduation, even part of calculators or watches is prohibited. The test thus actually preserves the technological state from the early 1980's and misses all the educational policy strategies that require the connection of teaching with ICT technology. This form of graduation only leads to routine calculations without much thought. The originality of the solution and thinking is actually being punished by a waste of time and thus a threat of failure to complete the test. The resulting protocol provides minimal feedback to the teacher who educated the student. Finally, the slightest mistake usually means losing points without justification. Failing such a math degree can be caused not only by lack of diligence, but also by poor work by some schools or teachers, or by tax for the impervious family background of a student. Children from a socially and educatedly weaker environment e.g. do not reach different paid preparatory courses, they have very narrow possibilities of redress if the school does not create conditions for them. Will the company make money on this if these students fail? The test substance can be partially temporarily rehearsed and so it happens. But it's far from the same as understanding it. Mathematical skills make students uneducated and short-term acquired so-called. Mathematical knowledge is quickly forgotten. After all, as a mathematician and graduate of the Mathematical and Physics Faculty, I regularly take a graduation test from Czech. I don't understand the scientific analysis because I never found the motivation to learn it. But I'm not proud of it. I understand why someone doesn't like math. He has it with her as I do with Czech and accents, he sees only formalism and useless concepts. I'm not a Bohemist or a journalist, and I don't want to be, but like somebody else, he doesn't want to become a mathematician. So what is the analysis of nine years of math math, what are the conclusions, and what did the optional state graduation bring us? Between 2012 and 2019, the decline in the number of primary graduates who volunteered for mathematics is from 40,500 to 14,500. - Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna stress this number once again: 40,500 when math graduation started, down to 14,500. - As a percentage, it's a decrease from 44 percent of primes to 21.4 percent. Second, among those who chose mathematics, in 2012 the proportion of students from grammar schools was 25.2%, in 2019 the gymnasists already participated in a total of 45 percent. For another, failure of mathematics remains at the same level or is improved year on year only thanks to the constantly growing share of gymnastics, which Cermat points out in his analysis. In fact, the failure of mathematics at all types of schools including grammar schools increased compared to 2013. Nine years of math already had a positive change to bring if the form of graduation was set correctly and the teaching of mathematics responded correctly. The form of tests is long known, predictable, there are a lot of tests available to practice. So, in the context of these numbers, does the State Mathematical Graduation support the development of mathematical skills? And if that doesn't work, do we know why? And if we don't know them, why order instead of understanding them to graduate from mathematics? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming to an end. Will there be two mandatory levels of math graduation texts for different types of schools with different RVPs, with different hourly subsidies, as many politicians have already referred to this as a logical step? By 2012, optional optional tests were higher levels. In 2012, she volunteered to select a higher level of mathematics only less than 2 percent of the graduates, and after Cermat failed to estimate the time intensity of the test and had to change the evaluation additionally, the higher level tests were abolished in the law. [[12.40 hours]] It is clear, therefore, that vocational schools have priorities in vocational subjects and, unlike grammar schools, they are paying for this in the Single State Graduation. Is that fair? After all, high school students wouldn't be successful at the accounting graduation, machining on NC machines if they were ordered by a single compulsory graduation. Now there is a paragraph that concerns arguments about why we use computing technology for state graduation and why we do not deal with the real situation with mathematical and computational instruments. For example, nonsensical tasks are being tried. I had no idea... This year, in the role of number 9 seniors, they built columns that were 500,000 meters high. Conclusion. The introduction of compulsory mathematics graduation took place as well as the introduction of the entire state graduation: without understanding the nature of the problem, with formal indication of the objectives to be achieved. A public analysis of nine years of uniform maths was not carried out, which of the objectives of the introduction of a single state graduation was achieved, which did not, and why. And the complete conclusion? The danger that a compulsory math degree will preserve the unsatisfactory state of teaching is therefore too great. Dr. Luděk Šnirch, a graduate of mathematics at the Mathematical and Physics Faculty in 1985, now a teacher of secondary school in Bruntal. So I took the liberty of perhaps a little longer to summarize the arguments why I think it is right that compulsory mathematics graduation should not be introduced in order to maintain the option of choice. However, I want to underline once again that this amendment to the law, this form of the graduation exam, makes sense only to introduce - that is, not to introduce compulsory math graduation, to maintain the current model - only if there is absolutely a promise that there will be a relevant discussion about how the completion of secondary education should look, a relevant promise that a new form of state graduation should be discussed, and a relevant promise that this discussion will not just remain in the air. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u51	Now, with a point of fact, Minister Plaga. So far, one factual point. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In that factual remark, I wanted to respond initially to the reminder that Cermat had errors there every year. That's why I signed up from the start. Yes, of course, I'm not going to pretend that the interpretation confusion was there. I'm also not happy with the fact that every year we have a competition for who catches Cermat. Because when I take this year, it really wasn't about interpretation, it wasn't about error of Cermat, it was about measuring math experts and looking for any significance that the high school student couldn't even attack, and that's what they were looking for. That means those high school students were well written. But still. I admit it, and I said it here in my introductory words, that this barren debate is already a bridgehead to the need to have a serious debate on the form of a graduation exam. I am clearly aware that not only for the graduation exams, but for all those nodal exams, such as the single high school entrance exams, it is crucial and determinating for education at the second grade of primary schools or in high school how the content of the test is designed. That's a perfectly legitimate debate. I can promise that I'm ready to lead it because it's the only way we're able to do some things very quickly. In conclusion, this may be unusual for a factual point, but I would like to thank Mr Bax for this contribution, which was clear, factual, just as I thanked Ivo Vondrák before, even though it was from the second spectrum and disagreeable with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u53	Member Kateřina Valachová will now speak in the general debate and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Government, we have heard a lot about mathematics here. To be honest, I listened carefully if I heard any argument to change the law, because the Chamber of Deputies is about changes to the law. That's not the argument I heard here. If I do this as a legislative lawyer to the tasks I have heard, then of course I have heard a number of things about executive decisions of the Ministry, professional support of the Ministry and the Ministry's work. There's been a lot of work going on here from my point of view. I have heard an argument for the amendment of the law merely one which, in my opinion, my fellow Members and colleagues, can be accepted. It was told by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. Yes, the reform of regional education funding has been postponed, so it should be noted that he himself sought to do so. Originally it was to take effect in September 2018, it is now starting fully from January 2020. This is a valid argument, because the reform of regional education funding should have ensured that not only in secondary schools, but in all primary schools, we should have ensured the division of possible teaching from mathematics, which undoubtedly contributes to improving the quality of education in mathematics. So let me sum up, for me there is only one basic argument: yes, there has been a delay of two years. However, as far as the other arguments are concerned, I must reiterate what was actually here in 2016 and why it was approved by my fellow Members in the Chamber of Deputies. Some of the contributions made me feel that the Marťani flew here in 2016 and decided to introduce, of course, without any thought, analysis and so on, something terrifying, which is supposed to decimate our youth and destroy our nation for the future. That, in my opinion, was how some contributions were made. Ladies and gentlemen, something else has happened here. As I mentioned earlier, a proposal was prepared for a change in the school law, which said yes, part of the common part of graduation, whether it was a grammar school or a secondary vocational school, to be a mathematics, a Czech language and a foreign language. Now who invented it? It would be offered that it was invented by the government of the ANO, CSSD and KDU-ČSL movement. Well, it wasn't like that, ladies and gentlemen. It was coming out and it is coming from Strategy 2020 - I note that the Strategy 2020 was actually approved by the government of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL at the very beginning, but it was prepared overwhelmingly in its content, and I have to say that I have devoted myself to this as a professional lawyer and member of various bodies, not only the Legislative Council of the Government, but also, of course, as an expert on the organisation of public administration, for at least ten years. And this report, i.e. Strategy 2020, I note in my time a very praiseworthy, unique document, nothing better was done here, the Government of the Civil Democratic Party, or under the leadership of the Civil Democratic Party. The final work was done by the administrative government, and, as I say, at the beginning of its operation very soon, it is hard to suspect that it invented the whole thing, so did the government of the ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL. Why do I say that? Definitely not because of some ping-pong, carrying responsibility and all that. No way. I say this because the consensus, I point out professional and political, is that the output from a secondary vocational school or grammar school is to be a common part of graduation, which is to contain the Czech language, mathematics and foreign language, is a long-term one. It's not a lie. As far as comparisons with the other countries are concerned. Yes, Martin Baxa is right through you when he says that not all of Europe or all of Earth is the same. Absolutely not. I also appreciate his factual argument when he mentioned that he also admits that it cannot be fully compared, because of course it depends on how education in these countries is terminated at all, how it is examined, how it is set up. [[12.50 hours]] But I'll tell you why I think it's important that the education output in high school really does this verification of knowledge from science, from Czech language, foreign language was actually contained and included in the graduation for the future. It is because the surrounding countries, ladies and gentlemen, the surrounding countries have the same math as mandatory. And why are the surrounding countries important? Well, because the graduates of our schools, whether medium or high, are part of the global labour market in view of trends that cannot be stopped. That means they won't compete with each other, they won't even compete with each other at school, high school, high school. Here I point out, I sometimes feel that, on the contrary, high school graduates are perhaps more skilled and skilled at applied mathematics than any gymnast. There's no division that he's smart, he's stupid. Also, I don't like this sorting out for those who are brilliant and are at grammar schools, and those who are stupid and are at the other schools. It's nonsense. It's a lie. If I have mentioned the natural, natural language, that is, for us mathematics, foreign language and Czech, I want to say that from a technical point of view, there is no one who, in my opinion, would question that these three competences for success in education and in life really need school graduates. As to how the debate was going and how the mandatory part, the mathematics graduation, was delayed, was here in the Chamber of Deputies. Please, this debate has been extremely difficult. Everyone had an opinion about it. It took months. It also took another month, by the way, six months before we agreed not only as political parties, but all the expert associations, I note all, were dozens of them, on how to set up government regulations, i.e. which fields are to be included in compulsory mathematics at all. Then, although about two years have passed, and I note, it was only a legislative process, the professional debate was much longer before, so then the battle followed on the government, which lasted two months, caused KDU-ČSL, and the result was that in addition to the government regulation in December 2016 about which fields, and it was indeed a very demanding long-term work on what was a consensus or rather a compromise. There was no consensus at all. A compromise. Thus, in January or February 2017, she was supplemented by measures for the initiation of the Mathematics examination. This was also approved by the government. I mean, that makes me absolutely reject the argument that the government or the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate did B first, and then they did A. No. We did A, we said what we had to do to make mathematical literacy education work, we postponed five years of starting this obligation in graduation, and then we approved it. This is the truth. So I have to say that it was a big surprise to me if I, as Vice-President of the Education Committee, and I think that this feeling has been felt by all colleagues from the school committee across the political spectrum, first attended the subcommittee on regional education in July of this year, where the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports defended the fact that there will be no change in graduation - once again: no change, and who would not have heard, once again: no change - so that, as otherwise, here it is such a tradition, the newspapers will learn that there has been a turnaround, everything will be different, and then, frankly, we have even learned that there will not be an inter-departmental review procedure, there will be no expert debate. There will be a cancellation because I agree with my colleague Vondrák that eight years delay is the abolition of compulsory mathematics graduation. But what's more, at the same time, without any inter-departmental commentary management of professional debate, let alone the impact assessment of regulation, it's such a popular RIA, they like to mention it here always in every law of KDU-ČSL colleagues, now they are absent, so let me mention it for them. I'm sure they'd make up for it. And even that it's happening - I'll tell you what's actually happening. Mathematics is just a smokescreen. What we have and even have been proposed to raise our hand to one vote is an absolute change in state math. That is what I really call a strategic, conceptual, analytical, very, of course, professional approach. Well, frankly, it's neither one nor the other nor the third. As far as the current situation is concerned, because I have to say that a number of contributions have convinced me that I am not sure if my colleagues know at all. The current situation is such, I repeat it again in my general performance: 2021 gymnastics and lycea, part of the common part of graduation, Czech language, foreign language, mathematics. Secondary vocational schools of the year 2022, and now beware, since December 2016, i.e. even before the students applied to a given secondary school or school with a degree in high school, a list of fields not covered by mathematics in the course of graduation, i.e. it does not concern them in 2022. It's a valid law, a valid state, I don't know who the students are interested in haunting. This does not apply to them: health fields, social services, social work, pedagogical fields of secondary schools, artistic fields. Don't tell your fellow Members who will be performing on the counter that this is a general introduction. I must say, I have an extraordinary allergy to this adjective. Then it's that it's uniform. That's another lie. Or even that it was perhaps the intention to make it a unified mathematics. Well, there's no way. Part of the 2020 strategy is that mathematics is to be part of a common part, it is there, it is true. In the law this is done, it is also true. But what's an absolute lie is that it's supposed to be united. This was not said by the House during the previous term of office, nor by the previous government. Two political parties continue in this government. I suppose most colleagues in the leadership of these parties know that. What did the government say in the previous term? On the other hand, on the basis of a debate in the Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of its commitment to the Chamber of Deputies, it took the telephone list of measures to run the mathematical exam that it was about to address, and it was five years or so, it is still the time, I think, that five years is sufficient time for the following to take place. And it has a little bit to do with the contributions, as you've mentioned here, colleagues. That's why I don't want to stall, but that's why we need to say it. Yes, as my colleague Svoboda said by means of you, it is false, but I have also said this in my factual note, it is false to pretend that the outputs of secondary vocational schools, schools with graduation and grammar school are the same. Well, I mentioned that it's only apparent. I merely mentioned that this is the output of our framework education programmes, which no one has changed so far, and what we have learned to God on the school committee, hopefully it will not change until the end of this government's term of office. I would like to add that the school committee does not agree with this. As far as the fields are concerned, they should also be revised. Secondary vocational schools. They were clear tasks, and they still are. And now why this is a revision of the framework education programmes of secondary vocational schools and why it is a revision of the fields of secondary vocational schools. I don't think anyone understands what that means. So: Before we had clear funding, which we have now approved, that every pupil in each school should receive roughly the same amount of funding for their education, so there was a struggle for the pupil. For at least ten years, high schools have struggled with demographic declines, each high school has held the nails of a student, with all due respect, legends, even those students who are too reasonable, let alone a high school or a secondary school, such as industrialist, quotes, not too smart, or under normal circumstances if more children were in demographics, they would never find themselves there. There are legends, I wasn't there, but there are legends, the teeth of the nails to hold the pupil because the money is connected to him. This, of course, led to a number of schools, e.g. In order to maintain as many students as possible to maintain the school, agricultural or technical disciplines have mixed the disciplines it has in different ways. So it happened, for example. You don't just have typical agricultural fields in agricultural fields, but you have technical disciplines, industrial fields, you have service areas, you have everything together. That is why the government said: the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, make it fair, let it be a revision of the disciplines, let it be clear with professional education, if it is an agricultural field, so it is a specialization education, this will be in line with the framework education programme, and this will be the equivalent of the graduation exam, including mathematics. [[13.00 hours]] This means that both the government and the Chamber of Deputies in the previous term have remembered that it is fair that if someone prepares in the agricultural field for, for example, the issue of veterinary education, so that the content of the mathematics exam corresponds to the RVP, it corresponds to the field and has been adapted to this in didactically and methodically. But this has happened before. It happened in January 2017. So let's get to work! I firmly believe that everyone is working, will speed up so that, as the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports has mentioned here in his introductory words, we have saved the children, because that is how he called us, so we have to save the children. The House has already done its job, so it would be good for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports not to tell the Education Committee that during this term of office this government will not undertake a revision of the RVP, it will not undertake a revision of the disciplines, and it will be put to work. So to sum up my relationship with the proposal in question, as regards the change in state maths in this way. Without an assessment of the effects of regulation, without commentary proceedings, without expert debate, it is absolutely out of the question, it would be absolutely irresponsible. This means that, in my view, this part cannot be discussed by Parliament at all in this way. As regards mathematics and the current state of affairs, when everything suggests that the Ministry of Education has radically changed its view since July 2019, I note that it has been several months, but it has happened, I take full account of the argument made by the Minister of Education. Yes, one of the measures for the start of the graduation exam could not objectively be met. There has been a two-year delay in the reform of regional education funding. Here, the Minister of Education is absolutely right. So at this point, I will certainly support for myself a possible amendment that would postpone the start of the joint part of the graduation exam for these two years, so that this change, which is objective, is answered fairly. Personally, I think it's fair that way. I also believe, however, that it would be fair for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to continue to fulfil the tasks assigned to it, among other things, many of them to be reflected in the Government's programming declaration. Therefore, I consider that: The Ministry of Education by the mouth of its officials may have been more skeptical than I firmly believe is the Minister. And the Minister has no doubt the intention of fulfilling the programming statement, given that there are two years left to the end of the government, he still has, he still has. Now I would like to comment on the agricultural fields. Someone mentioned it here, I think a colleague named Baxa. I also attend agricultural fields, agricultural schools. I'm going through a debate with students and students. And the truth is, if the debate is most passionate anywhere, it's in the agricultural field. Indeed, students and agricultural students are absolutely terrified that mathematics should be part of the common section in two years' time and that they would also remain a number of subjects in their professional profile section and that it cannot be mastered. It is important to add that their mathematicians join them very often in these discussions, which, frankly, I really do not suspect that they have a negative relationship with mathematics. On its own, in terms of agricultural fields, if revisions of secondary vocational schools are not processed, if revisions of secondary school framework education programmes are not processed, if God forbid they will not be processed even until the end of this government's term of office, then I propose simple solutions in terms of quiet students of these schools. The government is meeting on Monday, December 9th. That would be a nice gift to the students of the agricultural fields. If this problem exists, nothing prevents the Minister of Education from proposing - it is one line, it is simple - extending the government's regulation on agricultural fields so as to test them - if the Ministry is not ready, did not prepare for schools and for students the question of implementing compulsory mathematics for graduation for 2020, I agree, it makes no sense to stress students. But as early as Monday, we can get rid of this stress and exclude the agricultural fields from mathematics. But there's one problem. It's not a matter of the Chamber of Deputies. It is not the responsibility of Members and Members. It is the possibility of a government for one vote. And it can happen on Monday. I say this, in particular, because the first reading of the discussion has been brought to light. And I would very much hate to read in the paper that the evil Members and Members want to torture the students with a math degree. It's not like that. This House postponed the launch by five years and set out tasks for someone who should also work them out and fulfill them. Note how successful students and students are at math school. I must say that I am very pleased with the improvement in the international comparison of PISA, which compares 2015, 2019. I would just like to say that it was the government of social democracy, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement, which has increased the time grant in mathematics since September 2015 in the vast majority of fields. So I do not think that this is the only consequence of this measure. Unlike the Minister, I believe that this is primarily the result of quality teaching our mathematicians and mathematicians at primary schools and secondary vocational schools and grammar schools, because we have great mathematicians and mathematicians. Maybe if someone hasn't noticed, I'm going to the regions and to the countryside, to the municipalities, to the small villages. I don't find mathematicians there who abuse children with frontal instruction to defend themselves with new methodologies, as I always hear on television. There I find mathematicians who, on the contrary, in most cases, already use the Hejný method if someone hasn't noticed it yet, and I would even say that almost majority. Yes, yes. And the math teachers have other concerns, just for your information, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. They're worried about their parents. And they're also worried about the mayors. It's such a pun. Maybe not the mayors, but the joys. But they're mayors so far. So math girls are worried about parents and mayors. And you know why? Because parents and mayors don't usually want to introduce any novelties in schools. This includes teaching by the Hejný method. So let's just leave the argument that they're the stupid mathematicians and mathematicians who can't teach those smart kids mathematics. So why, in recent years, this has been said here, I think, again, colleague Baxa, he is always very well prepared, Mr President, by your means, he mentioned here, reading to the House the experience of a professor of mathematics at a secondary vocational school. To be honest, I believe everything he has read here, including the fact that the comparison made students in mathematics worse between 2013 and 2019. And I'll tell you why I think it happened. It happened that at least a few years ago there was a fundamental change in questions and didactics in the graduation tests, I note, on the basis of expert agreement, I would even say political agreement that we should not therefore verify our students both trained monkeys but have open roles so that we know that they really took mathematics as science. So my personal opinion is that the deterioration is related here. And as far as verbal tasks and applied mathematics are concerned, it is only very good that they are there, but I would like to put you slightly into depression, colleagues and colleagues, because mathematicians, when I ask them what they think is causing us to say the failure of our students and students, so I will know that it is the Czech fault. Again: it's the Czech's fault. I hope you didn't all fall out of chairs, because we should extend the proposal immediately, we'll cancel the Czech, we'll cancel everything. We can't do anything, that's why we're canceling. Well, that's an argument I'm rejecting, of course. And I'll just explain what's going on. The point is, of course, in verbal tasks it is important that you understand the content of the word message. If we have a problem, and I think it's more serious than in the case of mathematics, it's that our children are getting worse at reading literacy. In fact, they do not understand verbally what the role of words asks them. But the error is in reading literacy, not in mathematical skills. This is reality. You'll find out. [[13.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly do not envy the Minister of Education a gordical knot, which must somehow break, but perhaps the majority, and I think the debate suggests, we agree that there is no such thing as a trivial solution to Ivo Vondrák through you, Mr President. Here we need an honest debate, an honest debate and an honest solution. Certainly Members of the House are prepared for this Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. As far as state maths are concerned, as I have already mentioned, I absolutely refuse to change state graduations in this way. I quote, it doesn't mean that I think they're perfect or shouldn't be changed, but not in this way, not in this form. It takes an honest trial and an honest preparation. As far as math is concerned, I must tell you that at a time when this House postponed the start of a common part of Czech, mathematics, foreign language, of course, we have been debating here, and for a very long time, about how else we can give nodal points to the education system, it does not have to be just graduation, I agree, it does not have to be entrance exams, it also agrees. Many countries have a system of verification of knowledge within - but I note uniform - tests in all schools across the education system. That's the other way. Personally, I'd like to tell you that let's say it's purely civil, like Kateřina Valachová, I have to say that this trip was closer to me. But there's one problem. Someone's got to prepare that, too. Someone's working. And you won't believe it. No one did anything like that. So far, we have this system of entrance exams, which is somehow sailed, in some way implemented, and the same goes for state graduation. We've invested a lot in this. Let's not deny ourselves in those posts on the counter that, on the one hand, we want a continuation of work and a stable education system, and on the other hand, each of us will come up with a lot of genius ideas. Believe me, colleagues, often they are not as original as you might think, many of them have spoken here, for example on this subject and in the previous term, and it is usually so that when we want to make a fundamental change, it is always a question of compromise. Finally, I would like to thank everyone, not only teachers' organizations such as the Education Union or the Education Chamber, but also to thank all the professional associations, directors, the association of grammar schools and the CZESHA Union. I would even like to publicly apologize here because I have to say that when we formed the really bloody compromise - I must even remember that Marian Jurečka, as Minister of Agriculture at the time, was hanging on my neck as Minister of Education on the agricultural fields and wanted to hear about the arrangements for the mathematical graduation, and that the government had to approve the tasks for the Ministry of Education - so when this bloody compromise was born, I really knew that Renata Schejbalová was pretty upset because she said that when I heard it, when it was in 2021 and 2022, the Minister, you know, it was elections to the Chamber of Deputies, so now I know that nothing was going to happen. And I, of course, naiva, the unnerving politician, talked her out of it, that we don't, that we have an honest compromise and we have tasks, and how we all take it responsibly and how it happens. And now I'm standing here, and I'm really staring, and I'm listening to the Minister of Education talking about some sleep. So I have to say, Renata Schejbalová, the Gymnasium Association, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u55	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's a lot of things I can respond to. But I only have one minute and 55 seconds. Therefore, briefly and briefly. Now the test is voluntary. Apparently there are those who believe in mathematics, and failure is about 24 percent. You don't have to be an expert here to think something's wrong. There's no way I'm gonna allow us to crucify our future seniors in a few years on something like this, Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u57	Thank you. And before I give the floor to the next speaker, I'm going to introduce the House with note cards. Mrs Malá apologizes until the end of today's day, she apologises to Mrs Balaštíková from 13:00 to 13:15, she apologizes to President Faltýnek between 13:00 and 14:30 for family reasons, Mr Vyzula from 12:30 until the end of the day for family reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u58	By your means, Minister, you really have a genius, as I would say, a quality - to run into a pitchfork. I have to say, it's really, I can judge, compared to your colleagues, you're really the best at it in this whole debate. Yes, I did. That is why I also pushed against the will of the House, which had completely different plans at the time, against a government that had completely different plans under its programming declaration, a five-year delay, Minister. What I took the liberty of reminding myself here at the counter is the fact that the government has also approved a number of tasks, and there is really no time for you two years before something is to happen to come to the House and from the government to tell us that this is going to happen, and here, at the opening word, he told us that we are supposed to save the children. I think that marketing, including how you read my quote from your cell phone x years ago, without working anything off, just shows how you approach the subject, the graduation exam. Marketing. So don't repeat, don't write, work! Each Minister of Education has a hard time, has a role to do. Unfortunately for you, I must say that you are not engaged in the tasks that have been given you, but are constantly thinking about what might be. That's nice, of course, but in the meantime, please work. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u59	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, the Minister once again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u60	It's weird. It's long-term. Yes, you're right. You've worked against the government, against the coalition MPs, against anyone, because it's typical of you against everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u61	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Bartoň.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u62	I'd just respond to an apology to the Gymnasium Association. You know, there's no problem with graduating high school, like high school, and there's a big problem with constructions. But even gymnasium, if they feel at the level of education they provide, they can voluntarily introduce compulsory mathematics graduation within the profiling part of graduation. Voluntarily. The law allows them to. How many of them did that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u63	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u64	I think that who follows this debate all the time knows that my tone is very factual. I'm telling the facts, I'm saying what we have to do. No one picks the time of the ministry. Someone gets this, somebody gets this. The unpleasant thing is that from time to time it has to be worked out. As for my appearance in all my speeches and factual remarks or general debate, there has not been a grain of untruth. On the contrary, I must admit that when I see the Minister of Education, by your means, Mr President, in such a position, really, as I recall, he has been at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for six months, if not longer, at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, I do not understand again why he does not want to work out what he has begun before or long before me. I think my words are factual, as are the substantive comments that the movement YES and ČSSD, formerly with KDU-ČSL, now without KDU-ČSL, has been at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for some time now, in the government. And I don't know what's so awful about telling the public that the tasks have been set, happened in January 2017, and they have to be done. On the contrary, all Members of Parliament have undoubtedly had the opportunity to record in recent months about a triple turbulence in their views on mathematics graduation. I consider that irresponsible, as well as messages about the House of Deputies being seeped. I find that naive. All colleagues and colleagues sitting here know that no law of school will be passed by the House. It's not against everyone or anyone. That's reality. So, up to work, we'll have plenty of time. [[Attention on time.]] And as for the fact that state graduation cannot be dealt with in this way, I think it is professionally clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u65	Thank you and we will now continue with the factual remarks. First Mr Baxa, then Mr Výborný, then Mrs Černochová. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u66	Thank you. So I really don't want to interfere with the shooting of two government opponents here, I'd say. The Minister is not a Member. I'd be having so much fun if it wasn't such a serious subject. It's just to the edge of your mutual clashes that are going on here. I just wanted to respond briefly to those arguments by the individual expert associations. I, on purpose, presented them more as examples in my speech and not as the basis of the argument I use for it. When Mrs Valachová mentioned CZESHA here, the Czech Association of School Associations, but we also have to mention to the colleague, through the Vice-President, that CZESHA agrees to maintain the choice between mathematics and foreign language at state graduation. And I would also like to do a little bit here against the perhaps well-meaning argument that Mr Bartoň has made here. Mr Vice-President, I would not dare say that the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums led by Dr. Schejbalová is defending this system simply because she does not see on the right and left, as state graduation is easy to handle at grammar schools. I have spoken to Principal Schejbalová repeatedly about this, she is simply convinced, in principle, that there is a compulsory math degree. And I really don't think it's fair - and it's a different opinion than I do - to accuse the AŘG of having blind spots, as they say, and they only have one opinion. So many arguments by the individual associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u67	Thank you and now Mr Výborný, then Mrs Černochová, then Mrs Valachová, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u68	Thank you for the floor. As I closely follow this debate, I might ask, because the gunfight is primarily between coalition partners, and I would understand that it should take place behind the closed door of some coalition board for education, and that's where you should talk about it. And I would just like to join in what my colleague Baxa said before me about the grammar school and my colleague Renata Schejbalová, my former colleague principal, and today the chair of the Association of Gymnasium Directors, so I personally do not share the view here, because I am trying to perceive the context of the whole problem not only closely focused on gymnasium, but so I understand grammar schools. Of course, for them is primarily the goal of a high-quality graduation exam and that's where the mathematics should belong. However, it is also necessary to perceive the expression CZESHA, which is the opposite, etc. And one more thing I wanted to say, and now it's out of my mind, but maybe I can get to her, maybe I can get to her in a minute. It was about... so I'm sorry, Friday 13.25 - yeah, I know what I was gonna say, yes, I'm in the loop! I would like to ask my colleague Valachová separately, let's try to limit the factual remarks. I have my first statement on this point. Because if anyone expects us to do a quick solution and a quick meeting, it's those third-year students and school directors. They don't know what model they're graduating from next school year. And that's a big problem for the director, because today they're supposed to form the concept of graduation exams for the 2020/2021 school year and they don't know what to do. So I understand that we're not going to discuss this here in accordance with Section 90, but let's try to speed up the debate, move it to the committee, and come up with some solution that students and directors are waiting for. [[Time warning]] [[Re-notice]] I see you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you, have a lovely Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u69	Thank you. I'm not gonna take that as a suggestion. Madame Černochová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u70	Mr. Colleague, turn people off fairly, please. I want to respond to what has been said here from the mouth of my colleague Valachová, and it has touched me because I am the mayor in charge of the area of education. I was touched by her reminder that maybe the mayors here don't want to follow some of the orders that the Ministry of Education is taking. Mrs Valachová through the Vice-President, you were the gravedigger of Czech education. In your era, unfortunately, mayors, but also school heads and kindergartens, at least I can speak for Prague 2, had full mailboxes of various promises, declarations, everything, but the deed escaped. You even once attended a meeting at the New Town Hall where many of our directors still remember your idle promises. So be nice and don't take the mayor and mayor into your mouth - you've even forgotten the mayors, you've only mentioned the mayor, even though you're always careful to make it gender correct. Don't take us in your mouth! Because really, if you and Mr Chládek hadn't wanted nonsense from the directors before, they wouldn't have had any comments about practically changing the legislation here every two years, every three years someone comes in here with some new proposal. And the fact that you're actually doing a live showdown here inside the coalition, that's your bad business card for your bad work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Thank you for the comment. I'll do my best, but I'm a benevolence myself. I'm going to introduce the House to other note cards. Mr Skopeček apologizes from 13.15 to the end of the meeting, Mr Kaňkovský apologises from 13.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. prosit, Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u72	I mentioned mayors and mayors in particular to smaller rural schools, through you, Madame, in no way did I want to offend them. I mentioned what I hear from mathematicians and mathematicians that this is what they meet at these smaller schools. So I'm just reminiscing what I said. As far as the law is concerned, I would like to remind you that during the term of office of the previous year, all laws have been passed, if you check it, across the political spectrum. It wasn't the will of one coalition. Thirdly, I have mentioned quite correctly that every minister, the Minister of Education, I express myself in a consistent manner, has its tasks, and none has it easy. As far as today's debate is concerned, I have quite factually said what the current situation is, because there have been things that are simply not true. And for the last time, as far as my promises are being fulfilled, what I said in the Chamber of Deputies or in the debates of teachers and teachers, I've always kept them. By the way, regardless of the Minister's position. And I must say by your means, Mr President, Mrs Černochová, that she is surely right that I could no longer fulfill many promises because I have resigned. And I have to tell you, of course, when I've been watching political culture over the past few years, it's probably a mistake. I was supposed to do my homework, and I didn't have to listen to that from my MP right now. Finally, I strongly object to the fact that you are pushing back the debate on the House, where I defend the House as a Member against certain statements about the House's whistling, etc., or approval at first reading, or perhaps that it is the responsibility of Members to the proposal that has been put forward here in this way as some kind of coalition dispute. [[Attention, time's up.]] Those listening to this know that colleagues from the club of the ANO movement have spoken similarly, no one has become a subject of your interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u73	Thank you. Now, Mr Bartoň with a point of fact, then Mr Vondrák, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u74	I would only respond to Mr. Baxa. I certainly didn't want to set aside for Mrs Schejbalová, which I appreciate, which I also invited to the seminar that I organized. I wanted to point out that the problem with seniors is not primarily at grammar schools. They're high-school vocational schools. These risks are also mentioned by the expert team of the Ministry of Education, which evaluates the 2020 strategy and draws attention to these risks. It also points out that pupils will avoid high school graduates when they choose, although they have the prerequisites to study them, but only because they fear that they will not finish them. So there are scissors opening up here, and they'd rather choose the path of either gymnasium or the way of apprentice education. It is a threat to secondary vocational schools, as does CZECHA.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u75	Thank you. I ask Mr Vondrák to make a point of fact, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u76	Good afternoon. I am with Mr Excellent through the President. But the chaos about if and what graduation looks like, we just opened up this discussion. The law's in effect. He's ready. But we're questioning him now. And that's what I think the worst part is that we're actually making these kids nervous, that they really don't know what's going to happen. And I think this is more about whether we made a decision some years ago and we have interim reports that say it's being prepared in some way, so then I don't understand why we suddenly have to cancel everything and create maybe a false illusion that it's going to be canceled. I don't know, that's how Parliament decides. But in my opinion, this discussion is what de facto creates instability in those high schools, what will be with the graduation at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u77	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková canceled her point of fact, but now Mr Rais has made his final point of fact at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u78	Hello. 'Cause I probably wouldn't have gotten to the word otherwise... Well, I think what Ivo Vondrák said here is important. Why is the design here? Well, because somebody's terrified that there was a big death rate from the math tests, while, for example, the international PISA tests, as has been said several times, turned out politely - not very well, but solidly. So the whole thing is, if I completely simplify it, about some clerk's mistake at Cermat. We've all done tests, so we know we can put ten tricks in there, and I'm gonna take out the whole class. And I can let it go, and I can all get away with it. It's basically about setting the tests. From this point of view - it has been said here a few times, and I think that even in Bartoň's proposal - it would be useful, or at least we should discuss on those committees whether to pass the graduation tests to school level, because I have also experienced cases where one failure has basically been disappointing for at least that year. And this, of course, is the people who know the senior... So this would be removed. So I just wanted to point out that I think that's the real reason. There's no point in telling what this Cermat is doing, we all know how well he worked in quotation marks, but we're dealing with a problem that some clerk has simplified. And the second, last thing I could do. We built it in 2016, 2015 into some kind of solid state, and now we're more or less breaking it down. As my colleague Valachová said, we can amend the decrees, these farmers have always screamed here, I remember a fellow Member Dobešová, so that all of this can be dealt with by the regulation. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u79	Thank you. Mr Klaus will be zklamout, yet Mr Výborný has made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u80	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief and I'll be non-conflict. I understand the gentlemen of my colleagues from the universities, but I think that a reasonable comprehensive view of the Ministry of Education has won here. And I would ask very much that we not de-exist here both the work of Cermat and the work of the current minister, because we could really keep it that way, and then your government and your ministry managed by the ANO movement would solve the huge problem that is not at grammar schools, not at all, of course, any gymnast is totally fine, but which would be at those professional schools. If this system is not ready for this here, I think that it is a very responsible approach to what the Ministry of Education is proposing, as well as a parliamentary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u81	Thank you. And that was the last point in fact at the moment, so I am asking Mr Klaus in the general merged debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u82	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I patiently waited for the actual remarks to end, but I don't blame anyone, because I often speak in a factual remark myself. Firstly, there is an interesting phenomenon that I will partly agree with Mrs Valachová, which is the mathematical proof that I am a humanist and in each I am looking primarily for a person. I'll also try to be non-conflict. Still, I can't help but think that the effort to discuss this law in the '90s seems totally undignified and embarrassing. Those are just serious things, and the effort to get it off in a quarter of an hour, everything is going to change again, it really didn't work out so well to start a debate here about this law. Now, in a matter of fact. The law has been prepared for a long time and its content has been simplification and deburcratisation of state graduation, with what it will do to the state and as if to do the schools, to withdraw to those so-called. Didactic tests. That was the thing that, I think, all the people across the resort from the left very strongly supported, and I support it too, which means that the state will deliver tests, test math, Czech, English, those who have a five, so those who have a four and better, go on to the school part of the graduation, and they're already running the school in some way. So far it's been okay. And I would support the Minister here with this proposal. And then what happened was that suddenly another part of it flew in, and that's canceling mathematics. And I can no longer agree with that here, because, Minister, you must realise whether it is your role to defend the education, the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, or whether it is your role to chase for a few votes of 17-year-olds and 18-year-olds. I think it's a), and secondly, I don't think it's gonna work for you either, because the pirát are suggesting that graduation be for participation or something like that, so they're still gonna take those voters away from you on this thing, so it's not exactly happy. [[♪ Laughing and applause ♪]] Then I often heard the name of Director Schejbalová from the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums. So here I have to say that she teaches our Kuba, so I would also like to thank her very much for her opinion - and persistent - in terms of math graduation. And I'll keep going. The whole time I've been watching the public space, we've been talking about it - teachers aren't serious, weak students come to college, they're all just money flowers. And the solution? We're canceling math. Well, I don't know, some of us here have the mathematical or basic logic of some weird. Mathematics arguments are hard to learn, so we wait until 2090 to learn well - that is also not a solution, we will already be dead because of the climate crisis, or that is not the solution that we could offer to citizens. [[♪ There's a laugh ♪]] Everyone also often - the mayor here talks about worries, logically, so I will speak as the headmaster of the school. As soon as the state graduation started, I introduced a mandatory math degree in the school section a lot harder than the state. It wasn't very popular, we had a lot of humane-oriented students there, but every year I could throw victors when the state graduation results came out and we were the first in the Republic. Or that removing everything from schools that seems difficult to someone and in schools is only supposed to be easy and fun, this is not the way for the Czech Republic. And now I'll take one more main argument. I've got more of those kids, not just with Principal Nad Stolou, I've got a first-year-old too. Well, first grader comes to school, learns to read etc., but he's got four hours of calculus. In second grade, four, then five, then five... And that's a plus or minus goes on until graduation. So a quarter of the money, effort, teachers, textbooks, everything. And then after 13 years, we're gonna say -- it was just fun, we're not even gonna try it, because somebody thinks it's hard. [[13.40 hours]] So if you're serious, you're standing there, Minister, and you're telling them not to be in first class, whether they're dancing or not, to do something else. I won't agree with you, but that would be logically correct. That's how I'd see it, that you see the world, and I'd try to convince you that you see it wrong. But it's like putting that effort in, those textbooks, the teachers, the hours and hours of time, and then saying, "That's not even going to be tried, it doesn't make any sense..." Because again as a 27-year educator, I'm going to tell you that those students can't do what they don't try. You can think of that with some of those modernistic speeches of people who haven't taught in their lives and only write about it, but the reality is completely different. So we're going to propose an amendment in the sense that the original godly ideas of this law are preserved, but that math is not to be applied because it threatens the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, the level of education and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u83	Thank you, too. There are two factual points. First Mr Kasal, then Mr Martínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u84	Thank you for the floor. I would like, in one part, to support Mr Klaus through Mr President. In 2016, we changed the education of doctors and changed it in the sense that until then there was only a test, or participation in some education, but we had to return the exam, which basically corresponded to the first test, because those people didn't know how to do it. And the moment they had to learn to rehearse, it got much better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u85	Thank you. And now, Mr Martínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u86	I just have to respond briefly to the Chief Disinformer in the House of Mr. Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u87	Please, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u88	Through Mr President. 'Cause what he said here was that there should be a graduation for participation, he probably made that up, 'cause no one in the pirát said anything like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u89	Thank you. And now, Mr Kolovratník, in the debate. Mr. Zahradník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u90	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I patiently held the debate, even though I was going to the schools after such greats as Václav Klaus, Kateřina Valachová, Ivo Vondrák, I feel like I'm about to recite a poem from Jaroslav Seifert, myself, an ordinary member of the Economic Committee. But I'm gonna try, and maybe my performance will be all the more interesting that I may not have that operational blindness, I'm not an expert in education. And I apologize to the Minister, but I will hold the position that many of my previous speakers have set here, said, and mine is the same. I don't understand it, and I can't identify with the motion to cancel the compulsory math exam. And maybe the line with my expertise, with transport, with the economic committee will be quite understandable. As part of my parliamentary trips, I often drive around the Pardubice Region, where there is a very strong engineering industry, where there are manufacturing companies. One company after another says they're calling for technical education and technical disciplines. What's that got to do with each other? I also attend schools - Secondary School of Industry and Teaching in Chrudim, absolutely perfect school, Car School in Holice, which has the apprenticeships and graduations. In all cases everywhere in the region where I've been and talked to these people, so they say: do not bring the boundaries closer together, do not resign to quality, but try to separate the level and the quality of those disciplines that are senior, increase and do not resign to quality. In short, and it sounds here, we have to have the courage to say it, the graduation isn't for everyone, but it's not bad, it's not worse. On the contrary, those fields that are apprentices and have more technical disciplines in their curriculum in the next years, more practice, and they don't have to prepare for the graduation, for the theoretical parts, so they just get the technical expertise. So really, colleagues, the call from the field is in the opposite direction. The second reason, and it has been mentioned here several times today, the Ministry of Industry, Karel Havlíček, what you see everywhere, the move on the goal and the strength in not being complete, to support science, research, innovation, to educate ourselves and to push and to try for the highest quality, so we cannot suddenly say here how the Minister explained it in the introductory words: we have numbers that students are failing in graduation, so we will cancel it, we will not do it. That's the opposite of the point of view. And perhaps the third argument I want to support is my personal experience and my family. I have a number of teachers in my family, mostly primary education. When I asked them about this, teachers who are with children and see what trends are, what development is, they all say: please don't resign on quality, don't cancel graduation, but instead let's focus on whether we are able to prepare our students from primary schools or then from high school. My son is a sophomore in high school, Gymnasium Dashická, one, I suspect, of the seven or ten best schools in the Republic, the grammar school since sophomore year and then from junior year he offers the students seminars so that they can specialize, and for example those who have just graduated from mathematics, those fields and computer science, IT, the artificial intelligence that Ivo Vondrák mentioned today, close to getting ready for. So for me, this was really a step in the wrong direction, and perhaps with these arguments from the practice of meeting companies, with secondary schools that are also engaged in apprentice education, I think this is understandable and clear. And I believe most of you will see it the same way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u91	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Zahradník, Mr Juříček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u92	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to reassure Mr Kolovratník of your assistance. Ever since Marie Terezie decided that we all have to go to school, we all understand that education, and we think we can talk into it. In the end, our Empress is perhaps the author of the statement that education is and always remains a policy, so that is why we are so intensive and very often dealing with education here. I would first like to comment on the terminology at all. We're talking about the current type of graduation as a so-called state graduation, as if we were somehow showing that what was before, that way of finishing high school as if it wasn't a state exam. But it's not true. Since 1849 after Exner-Bonitzův's reform, the Czechoslovak and Czech graduation exam has been a state examination in Austrian education, of course that supervision of the state was carried out there by the head of the graduation committee, usually a prominent official in the field of state or public administration in education. The math wasn't usually easy. It's a tough field, it requires focused work, preparation, there's no way to talk, there's no substitute for some communicative skills, so there's always been some kind of effort to get math and, more importantly, the final exam out of the education system. Sometime in 1775 it was even mentioned in the curriculum, whose author was Gratian Franz Marx, that the teaching should serve only for fun, which I can hardly imagine is actually the case. From that year 1849 to 1908 mathematics was a compulsory part of the graduation exam at grammar schools and it was also written from it, of course, in addition to Latin, Greek and teaching language. This lasted until 1908, when the discussion on the intensity of the graduation exam culminated. The exam was really challenging at the time, maybe half, maybe a third of the students just didn't go to graduation, but the debate ultimately resulted in the fact that the written exam was canceled not from Latin, not from Greek, but from mathematics. So there's always been a threat. [[13.50 hours]] There was also mentioned the basic goal of the graduation exam, which is included in its title, i.e. graduation means adulthood and graduates of grammar school in the 19th century had written on their testimonials that they were found adults to study university. So they gained the right to enter the university, but not the right, of course they had to pay for the study. What's the math good for? That's what we're talking about from the front, from the back. We are all expressing our views on this with different motives. I have to go to my, let's say, probably burdened and in my incompetence to admit that I'm a math teacher, a big part of my life I taught mathematics, whether at grammar school or then recently at college, so it's probably not a secret that I'm going to praise mathematics. I'm gonna praise her as an object that isn't meant to be just students bifling some patterns, how sometimes opponents from the graduation exam try to tell us here that it's not an object for bifling. They learn how to solve problems, learn how to start, what tool to use, know that they have reached the result, and learn to interpret the result correctly. And this can not only serve to pass the classification successfully, or eventually to pass some final exam, but it also serves them in life. Of course, what bothers me a lot, and thank God, it didn't sound like one or two exceptions here, is that many celebrities and opinion makers question math saying that even though they went through graduation, they were troubled by the great suffering and then never needed it again. Sometimes they didn't need the sequences, the tangents to the ellipses, or the derivative. That is possible, but they have certainly learned one outstanding thing, and that is hard work. It is simply impossible to achieve results in mathematics without the hard work. Perhaps only some genius from the Lord's gifted can come before some math problem and solve it with just a sort of look at it. But that's not usual, and it's not right. So hard work is a thing that isn't quite the main value in today's society. Students would prefer not to have to prepare themselves so hard and systematically. They prefer objects that can be communicated in some way, perhaps with the help of the Internet to get them as topics, then to incarnate them in various seminary works, usually more or less skillfully copied. Unfortunately, math doesn't provide that for her. But once we withdraw the obligation to undergo the math exam, we will rid our society of one of the outstanding values, and that is the direction to a goal, to a conclusion. The company seems to be saturated, everyone gets - mostly, maybe not all of them, but most people think they have a right not only to everything, but also to be entitled to a graduation exam, which they have to achieve, however much their prerequisites are not good for. So I'm also one of those who intercede for the math exam being preserved. I could imagine - and here, even in the context of my previous appearances in the previous parliamentary term, when we also spoke about this, I say that I would be willing to bear greater differentiation in the exam. A challenging exam at grammar schools, perhaps less demanding, practically oriented in vocational schools, and perhaps calmly, even as it is now optional for those schools, let's say, medical or purely social, to make graduation optional. I would like to mention the Minister's idea - the Methodical Cabinet. It was a good experience and participation in the events they organized at the time, however well-provoked they were, so they formed a certain link between teachers of mathematics and gave them the opportunity to communicate with each other and to feel a certain status community. I would also like to commend the Minister here for meeting with representatives of the Unity of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists, which is an institution that has been going on for more than 150 years since 1862, and that perhaps at least in the corner of its mind they perceive and will continue to deal with their arguments. So once again, my opinion is that math graduation should be maintained, and that is why I will join those who will submit proposals to amend that clause on its abolition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u93	Thank you. And now, Mr Juříček, if necessary, will be followed by Mr Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u94	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I'd rather look at it through the market that wants the market. We prepared this concept of technical education from kindergarten schools through elementary schools, through secondary schools and universities, and eventually doctoral studies at the Association of the Car Industry about 20 years ago. Likewise, he eventually took over the rhetoric of this direction of technical education, the Confederation of Industry and Transport. All entrepreneurs, all companies that go towards what the Czech Republic supports today, and that is actually industry and its downstream and parallel pillars. Let us remember that industry makes about 35 percent of gross domestic product for the Czech Republic. And today, education in the field of technical education, even if we subtract from that the quasi-technical disciplines that are in secondary schools, actually education is only in the area of about 18 percent of students who are really technically educated. And now I follow up on what Professor Vondrák here also said in the end through the President, what Martin Kolovratník said and finally what Mr Václav Klaus said through the President. We have been training something since we were young, and of course we are trying technically to make sure that the future of the Czech Republic, which is a small country in the world, and we just have a chance to make a living in some way, not in all the ways of the educational fan that we already have today, so for God's sake, it is not possible for us to resign precisely in connection with when you need not only in the fields of industry, but food, agriculture and, ultimately, even in those industries, more dynamically developing as health care, so we simply need to have a technical science education supported by mathematics. Everyone wants it here in the Czech Republic, we're all talking about it. And we, who were educated in the 1970s and 1980s, all of us remember how high our expectations were. And if we don't change the high demands and we still go the way that we're gonna give 60 percent of the people a college education, then where's the natural Gaussův curve where college should really go through the people who have what it takes? And math graduation is, of course, one of the natural choices and filters of whoever gets into that college. Let's face it. It's not bad if 20 or 30 percent of students don't graduate from math. Well, they just don't have it in them and they'll work in the field of, for example, a nurse, but without a math degree. I mean, what's the problem? He's akorát not gonna go to college because that guy just couldn't do it. The other thing is, if you look at it from the point of view of philosophy and from the point of view of personality psychology, the ontology of human psyche says that if you build a higher barrier, then the bifurcation of human personality will show that we are able to overcome that barrier. Those who want to. Those who don't want it won't beat it. But those who want to, it's no problem at all that they're gonna do the math degree. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] [[14.00 hours]] And remember what we had to do back in the '70s and '80s. In secondary schools, there was no problem with deriving and integrating eventually in a triple integral. And then when we needed college and we needed to do for example. Professor Novotný's elasticity and strength exam, so we were able to integrate eventually even in polar coordinates, because - and until today I remember that, and until today I'm applying - otherwise I wouldn't have moved the company where it is today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-005-999.u95	[[He's coming in.]] Mr. Ambassador, there's a lot of noise in the House, I'll cut you off, then you can proceed if you like. [[Thank you.]] However, it is customary to close at 14:00 even though we do not have a third reading and the meeting day is within 19:00. Given the situation, I guess I'll have to end the negotiations. I will introduce the House with a note, Mr Výborný apologies from 13.45 until the end of the day for family reasons. I will now ask Mr Juříček if he wants to continue his speech. I don't think so, so I'm gonna take it that it's over. For the record, the Minister is no longer reporting with a factual remark, so we will interrupt this merged debate at this moment. Members of Parliament Rais, Mrs Hyťhová, Mr Staněk, Mr pojezdný, are still registered. I thank you for your attention, today's meeting day ends with this given the situation in the hall and the mood and we will continue this meeting on Tuesday 17. 12. when the first point of point number 3 is placed at the moment, the House's press 326, on the tracks. Thank you for your attention, that's all. Have a nice weekend.
