ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u1	149. Government information on the toll system selection procedure In accordance with the tradition, an authorised member of the Government will speak first, then the plaintiff of this point, Mr Jan Bartošek, will take the floor. And then there is the written application for the debate submitted by President Jaroslav Faltýnek. So please an authorized member of the government, which in this case is the Minister of Transport, to take the floor now. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me inform you, before I speak to you on this point, of one thing that is important to me today. I'm a little sad that I can't be there, but I understand that this is an important thing. Now at 11 o'clock the construction of the section of the D35 Opatovice - Time motorway starts and by the end of this month we will start two more sections on the D3 motorway bypass České Budějovice. That means we're gonna add 32.5 kilometers of new highways to the built-up 180 kilometers of highways by now. So all those critics who say there's nothing going on at the Ministry and that they're not coming over, so please, they're coming over and we're going to have almost 220 kilometers of highways built on a green meadow, I'm adding for everyone. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] However, let's go to the myth, because that myth is going to be selected on these motorways. In advance of my speech, I would like to stress that I have never opposed the myth in the House plenary. But what I must remind you is that we have regularly informed the Chamber of Deputies' Supervisory Committee about the preparation and conduct of the tender procedure for the toll system supplier, and we have often discussed it on the Economic Committee. Everything took place in the great interest of the media, so there is no way to say that it is a classified, non-transparable process and the House or the public would lack information about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u3	Minister, I'm sorry, some colleagues complain that they can't hear and are interested in hearing your comments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious subject, I beg you to calm down. Mr. Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u4	A number of untruths spread around the tolls of the tender are still in the same circle of people, and I am glad that I can bring them to the right place, as I have done many times. First of all, however, I must fundamentally reject any association of current events, or police interference from last week, with the activities of the Ministry of Transport. There is no indication that an extension of the contract with the existing operator or successfully terminated tender to the future operator should be the subject of an investigation. Therefore, I can offer nothing but a reminder of the events that have happened around the toll tender, which are widely known, but in light of the new events, we may be able to evaluate these things in a different way than before. I will be back by 2015 - and it is about the whole course of the tender - when I came to the Ministry to enter a competition for technologically neutral myth after 2016. It turned out quite quickly that this was not technically feasible. The reason was not time distress, as is often mistakenly stated, but the fact that the contract did not account for its end or for the transmission of the system to another operator. As early as March 2015, I informed the government that the State had purchased an almost complete myth selection system by the original contract, but the copyright that it could offer for use by the new operator should not have obtained until the end of the contract, i.e. January 1, 2017. I'm sure it wouldn't hurt to remember the 2006 contract and its amendments. The winner was Kapsch, up to the third on the tape, which was due to the fact that the first two cheapest offers were excluded from the competition. I would just point out here that the company, or the consortium Fela Management AG, Ascom Damovo and the ABD Group, submitted the lowest bid from the bids submitted at that time. The second was Autostrade SPA, 17.5 billion, and the third was the consortium Kapsch with a price of 22.094 billion, these are VAT prices. In addition to the above, that the contract did not count on its end, although it was for a period of ten years, there was also a provision according to which the myth selected above 90 percent efficiency of the system will be divided equally between the state and the company Kapsch as an operator. It must be added that the system operated for ten years with an average efficiency of 99 percent, so the operator went from this provision to 150 to 200 million crowns a year. Moreover, it is a provision that the Supreme Audit Office has criticized loudly. But that's not all, ladies and gentlemen. Right three months after signing the main contract, the then Minister signed an amendment with Kapsch, by the way, a few months before the election, in which the essential terms of the contract changed. According to the original contract, Kapsch was also to deliver all electrical and data connections, contact and distribution points infrastructure to the State. This June 2006 amendment stated that the said cases, i.e. the connections and infrastructure, will remain in the possession of Kapsch or its subcontractors. In other words, it meant that the state lost assets in hundreds of millions of crowns and much more complicated overcomplicating toll systems and, moreover, the dependence of toll systems on other entities increased. But that's not all. Another addition, still in 2006, was allowed to use power Kapsch instead of fixed connections to the toll gates. So the contract demanded that there be fixed connections, Kapsch promised it, but he couldn't equip it. Another problematic amendment was signed by the new minister in 2007. In this Appendix, the level of first-class road charging has changed. In the original contract, Kapsch undertook to collect the toll not only on motorways, at that time it was 986 kilometers, but also on another 2,580 kilometers in the first class. Yes, you can hear me well. In other words, Kapsch declared in 2006 that its microwave technology was suitable for charging 2,580 kilometers of ones. This supplement reduced the charging range to 155.9 kilometres of first-class roads, i.e. to about 5 percent of the competitive range. So it was not a zero rate that is being discussed today, but a cancellation of a substantial part of the contract. In other words, Kapsch carried out a completely different contract than he competed in 2006. The complete icing on the cake is the supplement with which Kapsch obtained the right to deliver his toll infrastructure to all tolled communications, for which the building permit will become legal until the end of 2017, i.e. all year after the end of the contract. So when we got, ŘSD, building permits by the end of 2017, we had a duty on these sections to build highway toll gates. It's like everyone's counting on Kapsch to choose the myth forever. None of my predecessors did, and probably couldn't do anything to prepare another competition, which we started to prepare from scratch. We knew that, as part of the care of a proper economy, we were obliged to insert into the new competition an existing system owned by the state, which was simply not possible thanks to such a cleverly concluded contract. I'll take a little turn here. The candidates for the selection of the myth were then not obliged to use it in their tender procedure, which also occurred, but did not count on it even Kapsch himself. But this does not change the fact that everyone had to have it at their disposal and decide whether to offer the state more favourable conditions using the system, using or without part of it. Although in 2015, Kapsch and I had intensive negotiations to agree on an earlier approach to the system and cooperation in handing it over, this did not happen. At that moment it was clear that the competition could simply be announced, as it was entered as technologically neutral, new competition cannot be. However, our coalition partners were reluctant to take note of this reality at the time. [[11.20 hours]] Here, I'll take a little gag. I have heard criticism from several Members that the Ministry has failed to manage the toll competition because we have not been able to make better use of the existing system we have from Kapsch and that the state is not choosing the myth itself. On Tuesday, Mr Jurečka expressed himself in this spirit through Mr President, who said that we could not handle the whole situation, that we could use this technology. To remind him of his involvement in the government. In the first half of 2015, I brought to the government and the Coalition Council a proposal on how the state could run the toll itself, but also on how to compete with the operators of the existing toll system to make better use of it. It's also a matter that the pirát have called for in recent written interviews. Do you remember, Mr Jurečka, through Mr President, how you threw me out of the coalition board with these proposals? And you personally voted against this kind of material? And I was clearly told that I had the task of launching a large technologically neutral contest for a new myth. In 2015, Prime Minister Sobotka announced that he wanted a big competition in which satellite technology can succeed. During 2015 a number of coalition negotiations and disputes were held on this subject until mid-2016. Even then, Prime Minister Sobotka threatened to call me off if I didn't prepare the competition, and I repeatedly explained to him that it just wasn't real. The three-year extension of the toll system contract with Kapsch was finally approved by the government on 11 August 2016, with the need to prepare a new competition in parallel. The amendment was concluded 29. 8th year 2016. We have committed the operators to the transfer of the system and, among other things, negotiated a discount that has saved the state over three years around one and a half billion. In parallel with the debate on how to ensure the operation of the myth after 2016, we discussed parameters of future competition for new toll operators within the coalition and government in 2015 and 2016. At that time, our coalition partners pushed for the greatest possible extension of the myth to the roads of the first class. There were also opinions that we should lead the myth to twos and threes. If you look at the debates in the media at the time, you'll find a passionate defense attorney for that amount of charging. On this issue, a transport coalition board was set up to decide it. The position of the Ministry and the ANO movement and mine were rather restrained, we cloned to maintain the current charging range. However, in no way did we agree to extend the myth to 3.5 thousand kilometers, which was the position of KDU-ČSL in particular at that time. Finally, the Government's resolution, based on the recommendations of the Transport Coalition Board, was to extend the toll system between 850 and 3000 kilometres of first-class roads, with a specific number of kilometres being determined on the basis of a toll study by Deloitte's manager. The government then took note of the proposal to extend the myth by 900 km of first-class roads. Only then could the Ministry of Transport begin the preparation of the toll tender, in whose tender documentation the required charging range was also required. The first phase of the toll competition, which we published in June 2017, was intended to enable applicants to familiarise themselves with the tender documentation and to obtain all necessary information about the current toll system. By 24 August 2017, the candidates had the opportunity to enter the competition and to demonstrate the necessary qualifications. Four candidates entered the competition and all successfully qualified. In order to assess their tenders, a selection panel was appointed to the Ministry, which stated that all four met the qualification conditions and advanced to the next phase of the procurement procedure. Therefore, at the beginning of November 2017, the Ministry called on all interested parties to supply and operate the toll system to submit an offer. As early as mid-November, we noticed the obstructive behaviour of Kapsch, who tried to drop the toll tender before the candidates just came up with the offers. At the same time, a number of experts, consultants and commentators who suggested to cancel the tender before we knew the result. The argument was that after Sobotkův's reign, nobody really wanted to expand the myth anymore, and that is why the contract needs to be changed. I warned in vain at that time that it was a proposal from the realm of dreams and fantasy, for in such a case we would certainly not be able to compete again in time or arrange otherwise. That's probably what this was about. It was about getting us into a time emergency so the state would have to close another amendment with Kapsch. That's naturally without Took, called off for inability to write a tender. In doing so, the UOHS also began to behave very unstandardly. In November 2017, at the initiative of Kapsch, he issued a preliminary measure prohibiting the Ministry from concluding a contract in the ongoing procurement procedure. By February 2018, the Antimonopoly Office initiated three administrative procedures with us at the initiative of Kapsch. According to Kapsch, the Ministry was to violate the principle of transparency of the selection procedure by passing the terms of the tender on USB disks which could differ for individual applicants. It was also intended to be ambiguous procurement conditions and so on. The Ministry defended the preliminary measures and other actions by all means of law and, at the same time, made public notice of the very non-standard conduct of the Office. For example, we were required to issue documents that we did not have to conduct under the law, preferably immediately or within two days. Here I would like to quote from the press release of the Ministry of Transport, November 2017. "The Ministry of Transport considers the procedure of the ÚOHS to examine the supply and operation of toll systems to be very extensive and meaningful questions as to what the real reason is." The award procedure for the electronic myth system was won by the consortium of companies CzechToll and SkyToll with a price of 10.75 billion for administration of the system for 10 years. The Ministry has decided to do so 11. 4th year 2018 on the basis of recommendations from the selection committee. The winning bid was 2.7 billion lower than the second best from Kapsch, compared to the last tender in which the state paid around CZK 27 billion for 10 years, it is 16 billion cheaper. The result was an increase in the campaign against me and further pressure to abolish the tender, which also happened. In May 2018, the Authority decided that the contracting authority had infringed the law and cancelled the award procedure for the selection of the myth. The keys were flash drives whose use of the law is definitely not prohibited. According to the Authority, the breach of the law was to take place on the grounds that the Ministry allegedly did not find such a technical solution as would guarantee the competitors that they would receive the same information about the procurement procedure. This conclusion was preceded by, among other things, our findings and the subsequent complaint that the Office had tampered with the disks incorrectly. The Ministry of Transport even lodged a complaint with the ÚOHS on the manner in which the proceedings were conducted, as it was not possible to verify whether anybody had tampered with the evidence of proceedings which were not included in the file. I could mention here a number of other weird things that we have continuously pointed out and protested against. But at the time, it didn't seem weird to anyone. To question some, it was only in the light of the fact that the President of the UOHS has complied with the degradation that we have put forward against the first instance decision. Personally, I have to say, I'm not surprised at the decision to decomp. The decomposition is first addressed by a breakdown commission composed of independent experts who make recommendations, and it would be very unusual for the President of the Office not to identify with such a recommendation. [[11.30 hours]] Even without succumbing to the appeal to abolish and rewrite the tender, we were getting into a considerable time frame. By the end of August 2018, the Office's first-instance decision was repealed, but until the Authority's new decision, the provisional measure prohibiting contracting entities from concluding contracts with the selected tenderer remained in force. The Kapsch complaint itself was rejected by the Authority only on 20 September without, however, abolishing the precautionary measures which prohibited us from concluding the contract. Yet, on that day, to the surprise of many, we closed it completely legally. The Ministry gave up the right to decomp and the interim measures were abolished by law. We have chosen this procedure to defend the interests of the state and prevent other special-purpose objections and delays. In order to make sense of our many years of effort, the Ministry was obliged to conclude the contract by the end of October 2018. According to the contract, the new operator had to get 14 months to prepare the point system - no, the new system. We barely made it. If we decided to re-enter the tender, we wouldn't have made it. For such a competition, it is not only legal time limits, but also that competition participants will turn to the Office for the Protection of Competition, which has no binding terms. And why would you think that if the tender of the UOHS lasts almost half a year today, the second time would be shorter? [[Nesroz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on one more thing. Among other pointless claims about how the state had lost and how Kapsch would have collected the myth for free, only if he could, came from this company sometime in July 2018 an offer to the state to collect the myth itself. Supposedly, all he had to do was buy a unique operational-personal know-how from Kapsch. I must say that we have been rather informal with this offer, although by its nature, and we have concluded that it is another decoy that has been set up for us. Besides buying our system a second time, we're supposed to buy people who can quit the next day. The law does not logically allow the state to buy companies in this way. Not to mention that Kapsch sought to transfer all the cost centres of the system to the state and would keep the profitable parts under his curate. In addition, Kapsch does not operate the toll system itself. A substantial part of it is provided by subcontractors, which the state once again had to compete with, and as we know it takes time that we did not have. Not to mention, in such a case, we would be forced to operate the system on the basis of a service contract with Kapsch, which Mr. Feix kept silent in his offer, and never said how much the state would have to pay per year. Overall, it is quite obvious that the proposal was just another way to use the time pass that they put us into, and to continue to be fully dependent on existing suppliers when choosing a myth. By the way, the chance for the state to run the myth alone was here, but not in 2018, but already in 2015, as I said earlier. That brings me to a complete conclusion. As I have already mentioned, during the years 2015 and 2016 there were political arguments within the coalition as to whether it was possible to immediately announce the tender for the next ten years, whether to expand the charging range, etc. These were political issues, and I was not necessarily involved in the debate on their solution. However, I can confirm that these were various negotiations on the coalition floor plan - party chairmen, the management committee for the myth or transport coalition councils. The negotiations on the amendment with the agreement Kapsch, naturally also on the preparation of the procurement procedure for the new toll system operator, its evaluation and announcement of the winner, were already fully directed by the Ministry of Transport and its experts. Such a contract or even an amendment to it is, for the idea of about 300 parties to the professional legal text, which you need to carefully discuss and agree with the counterparty. Tenders shall be evaluated in the procurement procedure without any other than formal contacts with tenderers through the contracting authority's profile. And so it was in this case. That's practically all I can say. And, as I said at the beginning, neither the Ministry of Transport nor I personally have any information that the law enforcement authorities are dealing with an amendment to a contract with Kapsch or a procurement procedure to select the myths on which the Ministry worked during my duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u5	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to other apologies. Mr Rozner apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Lesák from 14.30 to 19.00 for work reasons, Mr Richter apologizes from 14.30 to 17.00 for work reasons, Mr Grospič from 12.00 to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Jan Kněžínek from this morning's meeting for work reasons. Just to explain the next step. We included this item in the agenda at the 13th meeting, now we have a 27th meeting, and that is when President Jan Bartošek proposed it. Therefore, even after the firm inclusion of this point, he is the appellant, and I am now asking him to come forward. At the same time, I ask him to then become in accordance with the tradition of the rapporteur on this point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, honourable Members, no doubt many of us have a number of questions for the Minister on this issue, and therefore my speech will not be too long to ask. However, I would like to clarify why the KDU-ČSL has decided to include this item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. Those of you who have a good memory may remember that KDU-ČSL suggested the inclusion of this point at the House meeting on May 22, 2018. Well, almost a year ago. It's not a new topic. Even then, we pointed out that a number of uncertainties that should be clarified accompany the selection procedure for the toll system. The will of the government, virtually. The government coalition was different. Although the bod has been included, it has not moved into the program because it has shown that the government does not really want to inform about anything, probably with the hope that the whole topic will go away and we will not have to deal with it. Perhaps if the government were to inform the Chamber of Deputies on the KDU-ČSL initiative, we would not have had to witness the events of the last few days. It could have been without the police at the time. I'm afraid we can't do this without her nowadays. The People's Party has long warned that the YES movement has not been able to properly prepare the tender in the Ministry of Transport since 2014, namely an open toll tender. Unfortunately, this was reflected in 2016 when this system was extended without proper competition with Kapsch. And now it turns out that last year's tender also attracts great attention. It is also important to mention that we do not fight past wars, but concentrate on what is happening now and here, so it is important to mention the role of Mr Faltýnek through Mr President, when I can express myself not only as President of the KDU-ČSL, but also as Vice-President of the party that was in the previous coalition government. We do not remember that it would fall at the level of the coalition council of the government, or so-called. the monitoring committee for the collection of tolls of the system, a mandate for Mr Faltýnek, to negotiate the collection of tolls of the system, or to negotiate matters with the Office for the Protection of Competition. The colleagues who participated in the previous government really do not remember that the mandate that Mr Faltýnek is talking about would be real. It may have originated somewhere inside the YES movement, but that's another matter. [[11.40 hours]] A few months ago, we were dealing with a disaster on D1, where snow in the Highlands surprised us in the winter. Last week, a train accident in Brno that confirms the growing number of railroad accidents. And now we're dealing with a toll system. What's next? The Ministry of Transport is clearly the weakest member of the government and the selection procedure for the toll system is one big skeleton in the cupboard of the Ministry. I hope we all get a proper explanation on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u7	I thank President Bartošek, who will be the rapporteur of this point at the same time. I am now initiating a general debate. The order will be as follows: President Faltýnek is registered with priority right, followed by President Stanjura with priority rights, and then it will be the turn of the Members who have joined the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the floor. I want to thank my colleague Bartošek very much for his opening words. And in my speech, of course, I will partly respond to the mandate-insubordination, because I have never, my colleague, ever said that I had a mandate - through Mr President, I apologise, my colleague. Never. And my colleague Bartošek - I am unfortunately now, because my colleague Bartošek mentioned it, I did not have it in my speech, which I prepared this morning. I simply wanted to avoid specific names, specific ministers, but Mr Bartošek basically asked me through the President to appoint the Minister of Transport, Mr KDU-ČSL, Mr Šimonovský, who was standing at the beginning of this matter. I'm so sorry. It's not in my speech. No name, I want to be completely politically and factually correct. So, folks, I didn't say anything, I'm starting over. Hello, esteemed colleagues. Allow me, as I announced on Monday, to explain my role in the so-called. cause myth or the case of the Fallinek. At this point, it doesn't matter what we call it. Since last Thursday, the name Faltýnek has been quoted most in Czech media. And some media is trying to turn me into a thief and a criminal. Okay. So let's start with what the whole case is all about. Well, we all know that, don't we? It's about money. That's all it is. It's just about the money. Big money. [[Messenger. Janulík from the bench: Money.]] As my colleague Janulík rightly points out. He's bright. It's about big money. This whole case is about the money of our citizens, our colleagues, our colleagues. And the point is that our state will save about CZK 15 billion in ten years from the previous period when choosing a myth. And I'm asking: Friends, does anyone miss the $15 billion? Doesn't it? 15 billion - that's what it takes, I don't know. Like 100,000 crowns a year for all our teachers, for example. Maybe. And about that, colleagues and colleagues, our journalists haven't written a single point yet. Not a single bar. Not a word about our government and Minister Tok's savings - Minister Ťok - has spared our citizens CZK 15 billion! 15 billion crowns! That's his credit. And you know, fellow Members, what's the difference between Faltýnek and Took? You know that? The question is very simple. It's a huge difference. [[Fun in the hall.]] It's a huge difference. Faltýnek co-negotiated only 28 percent discount with the then operator with the Transport Minister's team in 2016. Only 1.5 billion. Only 1.5 billion for three years, of course. And the Minister chose a winner in an open neutral tender, which will ensure the selection of the myth in the next ten years, and he has already said so, a total of 10.75 billion, so he has saved our state roughly CZK 15 billion. That's the difference. That's the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to explain my particular role in this matter, let me make a final comment on the media. You know, I've been there before. Here, in the Chamber of Deputies. Do you remember when you, as the Chamber of Deputies, twice handed me over to prosecute the Capi Nest case? What did our media say back then? Do you remember those headlines? Even Public Czech Television - Public Czech Television! - wrote on the bar all day, all day on the bar on ČT 24: Faltýnek member of the management of the farm The stork nest. They didn't even take the time to look into the business register and check that I was never a member of this body. Never. Do you remember my argument here in the Chamber of Deputies against that police charge? Some might. Which, from my point of view, was untrue and purposeful at the time. According to the charge, I signed a fictitious and purposeful stock deal back then. My argument that the contract that exists cannot be fictional is that no one wanted to hear it. Only - Professor Válková through Mr President, except for the prosecutor who dismissed my accusations. There. And now, why did Faltýnek mess with the myth? The story is very simple. And it began in the summer of 2015, here in the Chamber of Deputies, dear friends. Perhaps some colleagues will remember that there was a coalition council in the Prime Minister's office, which dealt with the myth, upstairs in the Prime Minister's office. At this coalition council was Prime Minister Sobotka, Mr Birke, Mr Bělobrádek, I think Mr Jurečka too, I am not sure, Minister Ťok, Mr Volný and I. And at that coalition council, Prime Minister Sobotka called on Minister Ťok to finish his old contract with Kapsch by the end of July 2015, so that the government can lay down the conditions for a new tender for the selection of myth after 2016. If that is not the case, and so did the Minister, he said that the Prime Minister actually called him off if possible. [[11.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was an ANO movement for the transport department in the last election, and even now it has the responsibility of the ANO movement. The choice of myth is and has always been a political matter. This has always been discussed politically. And there was a threat that we would not be choosing a myth after 2016 - although the theoretical situation. The state will lose 10 billion a year - theoretically I say - and God forbid the Czech Republic will become a free zone. We heard all sorts of ideas back then. The minister remembers it - paper coupons. I think that's what the Prime Minister's predecessor said back then, that it's okay and all that nonsense. However, it was also a shame that the ANO movement failed. These reasons led me personally to enter this matter as Vice-President of the Movement. I have taken this mandate myself. This political mandate. I didn't ask for a mandate from the Minister. I didn't even ask him to do it because I felt the need to help politically, shield and resolve the situation. And I did. And I did. You know, I'm used to solving problems instantly in my whole life - active life, I think. And since I was politically in charge of the transport sector in the movement, I simply took the mandate and began to solve the problem, together with my colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, of course. And do you know what the main problem is, colleagues and colleagues? He's already said it here, Mr. Took. I haven't seen or read his whole speech, we have only partially coordinated the procedure, so I apologize that I may repeat some of the things that have been said here, but it is said, friends, that repetition is the mother of wisdom. And we all need to bring back some things to each other and bring back some memories. The main problem was that the government, the Ministry of Transport - and now I don't want to name who was sitting there, but I already said it in my opening speech, which I didn't actually say when I responded to my colleague Bartošek - competed in 2006 the winner of the ten-year toll, i.e. by the end of 2016, and concluded contracts with him that didn't have an endgame. Those contracts just didn't have an endgame. They didn't even deal with handing over the toll system after 2016. That in 2006 there were four participants in the tender, most of whom were excluded and only Kapsch remained, I do not want to comment and the Minister commented very in detail. But for your information, and it has also been said here and the revival of the memory of some colleagues - Kapsch then offered CZK 22 billion for ten years. This was their basic offer - 22 billion crowns for ten years. Autostrade from Italy 17,5, Fela from Germany 15 and A-Way LKW Maut from Germany 33. And like I said, some of them were voted out, actually, all of them, and they won the Kapsch. But that's not all, unfortunately. During the duration of the contract - and also here the Minister spoke of the amendments - several monstrous amendments have been concluded. I call it monstrous additions. And I don't comment on who closed them, what time it was, but it was just monstrous additions that even increased the original price. And most importantly, the contract didn't solve its termination and handing over documentation for the launch of a new tender. And these things had to be resolved quickly. That's why I personally joined the myth solution. With only one goal. With only one goal. Cancel these pointless and disadvantageous additions to the contract, negotiate discounts and allow a new tender to be launched. How did that turn out, ladies and gentlemen? The Minister also spoke of this. It turned out like I said in the introduction. There was a 30 percent discount for three years. I am still talking about 2015, 2016 - because some colleagues are still confusing and sticking together. And I say: the difference between Faltýnek and Took is that Minister Ťok and his team are much better because he negotiated for the state and our citizens a much higher discount than in 2015. In 2015, a discount of only 1.5 billion for three years, this year or last year, less than half. Less than half. Those pointless additions have been canceled and the possibility has been created to write a regular, technologically neutral tender for the next ten years. We just did it. Although I know a lot of you didn't believe it. So what's the result? We have a new myth selection system for 2020 to 2030, which will cost us approximately CZK 15 billion less. Our citizens, the Czech Republic, will cost us a myth selection system of roughly CZK 15 billion less than in 2006 to 2016, and 2019, including the three-year transitional period. Colleagues, doesn't that sound weird? We here today have a price that our state will pay to the new toll system operator by more than half as low as in 2006. Doesn't anybody care? Please answer this question yourself. And now back to my role and my mandate. I don't want to, and I can't comment on the police investigation. The police are doing their job, and I have provided them with maximum cooperation and I am prepared to continue to do so, of course. However, as far as my mandate is concerned, I have told you the political one. But I'm also an MP. And under Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, pursuant to paragraph 11, the Member shall be entitled to request from the members of the Government and the Heads of Administration the information and explanations necessary for the performance of his duties. As far as my communication with the representatives of the Office for the Protection of Competition is concerned, it was, in my opinion, in accordance with this provision of the law. [[12.00 hours]] The last thing I want to comment on is the role of the Transport Coalition Council. It was also discussed here today, also mentioned by President Bartošek through the President. This transport coalition board was composed of experts from social democracy, KDU-ČSL and the ANO movement. This coalition expert body has dealt with transport issues, not only myths, but also myths, but also from the point of view, and this has been said here in the report by Minister Ťok and I fully confirm this, the issue of the extent of first-class road charging or any other possible charging range. The result of this debate in this transport coalition council was a compromise, and I am not commenting on it, it was simply a coalition compromise on charging another 900 km of first-class roads. And this parameter was approved by the government and incorporated into the terms of the tender. So I, Jaroslav Faltýnek, have never said, Mr Bartošek, through Mr President, that I had a mandate from a large coalition board or a transport coalition board. I never said that. I have taken it myself, my colleague, through the President. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, between 2015 and 2018, all our political opponents were expecting, and I say, they were looking forward to the ANO movement's myth problem. And what's the result? YES, and with significant savings thanks to Minister Took. And it's a political problem again. If we don't make it, it's a political problem. We did it, and it's a political problem again. So the case is a myth or a Faltýnek, whatever, it's a political struggle. It's a political struggle. I respect that for myself, I respect this political struggle. I only ask you to do one thing, my fellow Members, in political struggle let us use factual arguments rather than speculation and prejudice. Albert Einstein once said: "What a sad time we live in when it is easier to break an atom than human prejudice. " Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u9	I now have one application for Mrs Pekarová's factual remark. However, before he gets to the microphone, I'll read two apologies. It is Mrs Radka Maxová, from 14.30 to the end of the day, for working reasons, and Mrs Monika Jarošová, from 14.30 to the end of the day, for working reasons. I will tell Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to prepare himself with priority rights. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried very carefully to listen to both Minister Took and President Faltýnek, and I have not been answered one question that I have been asking myself since the initial publication of this case in the media, and therefore I want to ask both of the two gentlemen a question. President Faltýnek, through the President, I would like to know one simple thing. I am not an expert on transport, tolling, public procurement, but I am interested in the fact that, according to your words, you have repeatedly said, and here again, you have saved the state such huge amounts of money, why you did not inform about it in any way, perhaps through the media at the time. If I had any such significant success, I don't know how you fellow Members, I quite like to brag. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] It seems to me like a natural reaction to a policy that wants to be re-elected, which does good for the citizens, that it goes with such a thing and informs the media. That seems to me to be a very fundamental, interesting and special position in this matter. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister whether he really knew that Mr.Faltýnek was dealing in this way, either with representatives of the company Kapsch or with the director of the ÚOHS. Just a simple question, please, a simple answer. Did you? When did he find out about this? Whether he, like the rest of us, was surprised by this when the police began to take an interest in the matter and, therefore, when for the first time since Mr.Faltýnek, the vast majority of us, I dare say, all the citizens of this country, have learned how much money it actually saved us by acting. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u11	We have two facts here. So the MP, chairman of the club YES, Jaroslav Faltýnek. Mr Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u12	Thank you. The answer to that question from my colleague Pekarová, I'm sorry, is a very simple answer. My colleague, through Mr President, do you know a medium in the Czech Republic that is interested in publishing positive information? I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u13	Now with the de facto President of the KDU-ČSL Bartošek Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u14	Thank you. President Faltýnek, through Mr President, I found your speech to be the most bizarre expression: I took the mandate. That's very interesting how it works for you in the movement. Apparently, anyone in the movement can come in and say, "I'll take the medical mandate, I'll take the mandate for something else." Or, in that case, you have an exceptional and luxurious position within the ANO movement, and you have become shadow minister of the Minister of Transport - both for the ANO movement. Because either you said to yourself, the minister is incompetent -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u15	Please address yourself through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u16	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. Either you have said to yourself, Mr President, through Mr President: the Minister is incompetent enough that I have to do it for him, and you have your own motives that have led you to pursue the myth. It's very strange that within one side you have a need to substitute your own minister. And one more thing from your speech. I agree with you, there is a great deal of money in the myth and it is necessary for the competition to take place as a standard, and the state has to proceed with the purpose of saving. I'm in agreement with you. Anyway, if you're saying that the myth is the subject of political warfare, I'm asking you: is this also an investigation of the police currently underway part of the political struggle? Do you want to question the independence of the police in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u17	Now other factual points. I have three applications here. I will read the order: Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, Mrs Pekarová and the President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš will prepare. Three actual applications so far. Please, Mr. Ferjenčík, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u18	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond, through Mr President, to the statement made by Mr Faltýnek that the media are not taking positive information. The media is taking over your claims about how much EET is supposed to bring, even though you're sucking it off your finger. So I'm surprised you wouldn't boast about saving $1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u19	Another factual one, Mrs Pekarová, will be prepared by the President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u20	Let's see. So if the media weren't interested, which I doubt, because I believe, when I see one of them here that she would be very happy for such information, then why didn't you brag about the website of the ANO movement or, perhaps, on your social network, on the social networks that I'm sure you're also using? It's a psychic that you can influence for yourself what he's going to write. Whether it's your personal website or your movement. I don't believe you have any interest in informing such success.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u21	I will only ask that you address yourself through the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now Chairman of Pirates Ivan Bartoš. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u22	Thank you. Hello, everyone. I would only react briefly to the matter of the mandate. I had the opportunity to talk about this, I think I was in the debate with Minister Hamáček, where it still worked last week: I had the mandate to negotiate this - and then Minister Ťok distanced himself from it. On Sunday, in a political TV debate, I asked if anyone had a mandate. It is the case that he has some paper, a mandate, there is a record of an authority that has said in some way: Mr. Faltýnek, so you are in charge of this negotiation. And only since Monday this week, and it was a nice time to come up with a story by Thursday so that such paper might not exist, so today we hear from Mr. Faltýnek: I took the mandate. I'm just gonna... Either I have a mandate, somebody gave it to me, there's some evidence to it. Well, if it isn't, then suddenly the mandate is picked up like it's from some sort of cash register. So just to give the story of the "I had the mandate" right, since Sunday, the story has been different than last week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u23	We will now return to the general debate. I have two priority rights here. So Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman. And the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I will divide my speech into three parts. I would first respond to the speech of the Minister, then to the speech of the Chairman of the ANO Group and then to the matters that interest us in the citizens' democrats. I must justly admit that the Minister has fulfilled the point that we have nine months on the agenda and has submitted information to the government about the toll system selection procedure. When I say this very simply, and you know that I am one of the Minister's frequent critics, if I think that something is not doing well, on the other hand, it is also true that we are able to find a common position in the field of transport. I will only recall the two amendments that we have passed together, whether they concern buying out or speeding up transport infrastructure. I am saying this to document on specific examples that civil democrats do not have a hundred-zero that no matter what the Minister does, they criticize him. We had a dispute with the Minister about how to continue after 2016. And the Minister certainly remembers the joint meeting at the Ministry of Transport, in no restaurant, in no hotel, when the Minister was optimistic and thought that the extension for those three years would compete, he assumed that there would be many interested people who would run the system after the end of 2016, with a proper open tender being prepared in the meantime. I was a skeptic. The truth turned out to be true to me. And the Department of Transport then actually proceeded to extend the contract out of hand. In the law, we have such a nice official name - negotiated procedure without publication. But it's an extension or an assignment from the hand. I didn't criticize that. I was rather criticizing the Minister's opinion that there would be a competition because I didn't believe it. I said that the moment I compete, or I would like to compete with the extension of the existing system, even if the competition had taken place, no one but the existing operator could win. The minister then took the JRBU route. I think it was the only solution at the time. The debate was about the length of JRBU for that period. But that's over. So if I wanted to evaluate the Minister's speech, fill in the item, give us detailed information in my opinion, or detailed information, reminds us of the timeline, the milestones of the individual... And what I'm saying is, in that open tender, according to all the indications I have, the Department of Transport has acted strictly, strictly according to the laws in force. Strictly. I will then comment on this in another part of the speech, where, in my opinion, this procedure, the legal procedure, the legal procedure, was seriously threatened by one's actions, whether consciously or unconsciously. I think the Minister knows, because then I'll refer to his words, which I can also sign from his performance. For President Faltýnek - and I do not address him, so I do not have to through, so I would tell him the explanation. Firstly, not every day I learn a new thing in the Chamber of Deputies. Today I learned that Minister Táok's greatest political supporter was President Faltýnek. It's a new thing to me. I think he's even more surprised than I am, Minister Ťok. But it sounded on the microphones, and it's in the tapestry. And that's how it's supposed to be. Members of their own party are to support their minister. No offense. President Faltýnek, to cloud it and distract it, and he did quite well, I have to appreciate it, so he said I saved $1.5 billion and the Tok is better and saved a lot more. Mr. Faltýnek, now through the Vice-President, I address you directly, and that is the difference between giving someone a job out of hand and competing. And I don't think it's surprising that if you give something out of someone's hand, that the price isn't as advantageous as when you compete. And if you're analyzing the civil democrats' output to the toll tender in detail, then you have to say that before it was written, our terms were fairly simple -- to make it an open trial, to make it technologically neutral, so that the competition wasn't written for Kapsch, but not even written against Kapsch. Because if it were for or against a particular firm, the condition of open procedure would not be met. And that's what happened. And throughout the course, whether the first phase, the second phase, the evaluation, the withdrawal, the decision of the UOHS in the first stage, in the second stage, we did not comment. When someone asked us, we said: there is an open tender, let's wait until all the authorities that can enter into this are shut down, and then we can evaluate it. We were disciplined, and in no way did we help the Minister to achieve a better outcome, as President Faltýnek. And objectively, I have to say, the competition was a success. It is not true that many were looking forward, or everyone was looking forward, we were not looking forward to failure. We believed that the state could do it because it is good news for the Czech Republic and we are not destructive opposition. However, President Faltýnek here said that he was part of the negotiating team at the first stage when the contract came out of the hands of Kapsch for three more years. Legitimate question is, how did he become a member of the team, if he took it himself and... [[Chairman Faltynek from his place: I said so.]] Well, being a member of the team means I'm dealing with a candidate. Although he is the only one, I suppose and I think I am not mistaken that Minister Ťok has appointed a negotiating team that has addressed a specific candidate under the Public Procurement Act and discussed the award and conditions of the contract. President Faltýnek said he was part of the team. [[Chairman Faltynek taps the bench with a voting card.]] I thought you wanted to check out. And you're just knocking. I'm sorry, because we're not voting. So, Minister Took the Vice-President, was President Faltýnek a member of the negotiating team that dealt with the candidates? Yes or no? Has he been acting as a contracting authority or a representative of the contracting authority? We're talking about the first three-year contract. Yes or no? According to President Faltýnek's words, the answers should be: Yes. Yes. And there may have been an impression among the candidates, whether specific or all, that President Faltýnek represents the contracting authority. And I really don't care, as representatives of the opposition, if any coalition council - big, small, traffic, health, social - gave someone a mandate. It's perfectly logical in our eyes. The Minister of Transport has responsibility for the transport department. No one else. Whether someone advises him whether or not to listen to his advice is his business, his decision, and his responsibility. Also, if there was a problem with the myth, we wouldn't be asking Mr. Faltýnek how he handled it so badly, but we would be asking logically Mr. Minister Took. I said it on Tuesday, and then I kind of liked the expression that Mr. Faltýnek's performances are the fairy tales of a sheep's grandmother. He kept doing it today. Instead of focusing on what is public space, what happened last week, it's a non-standard meeting with the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, so he started: It was, it wasn't... in 2006 - you all know who, I won't say it - this happened. And then there were these additions. And then in 2015, it was this. And I don't really have anything to add to that part. However, I would deny our attention to November 2017, when - and the Minister confirmed it - an open tender was put out. It was a two-way street. The first round was completed when all four candidates met the qualification criteria. And it was in the period when they were actually making their price offers. That's the fall of 2017. And the Minister said quite rightly here that at this stage of the public contract personal contact with any candidate is excluded in the law. [[12.20 hours]] The only place through which the contracting authority or any representative of the contracting authority may meet during the tender, e.g. The one who took the mandate is the profile of the contracting authority. The Minister spoke of it. And once again, I can confirm that the Department of Transport has acted strictly like this. Thanks to the communication on the contracting authority profile, the deadline for submitting offers was postponed. It's perfectly legal, and in such a complicated competition, it's nothing special. It is precisely to maintain fair conditions for all applicants. I would like to draw your attention to Section 6 of the Public Procurement Act. When applying it, you will find a clear view that any contact between the contracting authority or its representative, such as whoever took the mandate, with any candidate, and rather only one of them, would lead ruthlessly to the abolition of the competition. Completely merciless. If these meetings were known at the time they took place, the only legal procedure that would be possible would be the abolition of this competition for non-transparency and infringement of the principles of equal treatment. And that's the problem we, as citizens' democrats, are talking about. And we can ask ourselves and ask ourselves, Was it a conscious or unconscious violation of the law? Was it or was it not intended to force the contracting authority to cancel the tender on the basis of such conduct and conduct? What would have happened if the tender had been canceled at that moment? The Minister and the Ministry of Transport and the Government as a whole would have no choice but to extend the operation of the existing system again out of hand. The President has taken the mandate, so let us describe what he has done with the mandate. First he met with one of the candidates to then defect to a meeting with the President of the Office, who has all the applicants - everyone - guarantee that the competition will be fair. It's already extremely disturbing. Let's describe it from public sources, and I'm not going to quote it from illegally leaked information, because I criticized it on Tuesday that we shouldn't be working with it, but I'm based on public statements from the actors of the meeting that they publicly confirm. Who arranged this meeting, and who was involved? A specially prosecuted municipal politician, perhaps a member of the YES today, or an already excluded member of the YES. This person, allegedly unknown to no one, organizes and attends the meeting of the first Vice-President of the movement, who took the mandate to solve the myth, with the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition. Which - I don't know if by any chance - is also a member of this chairman's decay committee. I think there is very little talk in public space yet about the role of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition. He was the first to refuse such a meeting! He first, because he's a guarantee of fair treatment for all the applicants. And he's the guarantee that every public contract will go by the law. And the government left it with a simple sentence: the presumption of innocence. I'm not talking about criminal acts. I'm talking about the trust of the contracting authorities, but also the applicants, mostly private companies, that the competition will go well. Which one of you, who of these candidates has the opportunity, through the intermediary, to organise a meeting with this President and discuss the question in question? They may be, but they won't be all of them, I'm sure. I would like to ask the Government to take this seriously, because I think it is a scandalous and unacceptable behaviour of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition. So a person with a mandate that he himself took, at that time, can be understood by all other participants as a representative of the contracting authority, talking to one of the candidates at a time when it is completely out of the law. And then he says-- let's remember the stories of the sheep's grandmother: First, it is because he had the mandate of the Transport Coalition Council. I really don't care. So that the other members of this, I do not know what I would call it, the Advisory Council, say: I did not have a mandate. The second explanation was: This was to save one and a half billion in three years, when the Kapsch was running it beyond the original contract. This isn't exactly the time. When the contract was concluded in June 2016, as the Minister said in his opening words, we can hardly believe that in November a year later, i.e. 18 months later, someone negotiates a price that is 17 months signed. And as President Faltynek says today: I have saved one and a half billion! Minister, what was your team doing when he dealt with the Kapsch, when the humble President of the Faltýnek, who didn't even inform anyone? So only in his spare time did he take the myth and negotiate one and a half billion, and he hasn't told anyone modestly yet. He's not gonna praise himself! Nobody's gonna write it, not even the trust paper. Not even in the difficult conversations in these newspapers, when a representative of the ANO movement faces sneaky questions of the type: How do you do it that you are so good? You're even better than we thought! How did you do that? And so on. I understand that when faced with such difficult questions, it's hard for someone to give you any room for personal commendation that you've saved one and a half billion. So it didn't even work. And today, as a defense of this non-standard meeting, we hear, "Tock is great, better than me!" I've heard it three times. That doesn't feel like... You think that at the meeting, I wasn't at it, but the participants confirmed it, the meeting went about this way: "Hello, Mr. Chairman of the Office for the Protection of Competition. I'm Jaroslav Faltýnek. I'm sure you know me. I want to tell you that Minister Ťok is much better than me and I assume that this competition will save a lot more money than I do." And Mr. Rafaj says, "Well, that's great news. Well, have a good day, goodbye." I don't know if you believe that. I don't believe it. I've already said on Tuesday that it's a good thing that the arresting politician from Brno, the shooter of the ANO movement, was fired from ČD Cargo's supervisory board. But on Tuesday, I asked, and today I might know the answer to who suggested it. It is not quite usual for a councilman or vice-mayor of the city district to be assigned to the supervisory board of a state enterprise without being recommended from that central level of policy. I can only think of four options or combinations. He was recommended by the Minister of Transport. That's quite legitimate. I don't know if so, but if the Minister of Transport recommends someone to the supervisory authorities of the company he's in charge of, it's logical. And I am of the opinion that the Minister has full political responsibility for the nominations at the Ministry, and it is his business as he chooses the nominee - selection procedure, direct address or whatever. So that is the first option: Mr. Švachula chose Minister Ťok. The second option - I'm talking about political options now, I don't know what it was - was chosen by the first vice-president of the movement who took the mandate to solve the myth. I don't know how the myth relates to ČD Cargo, but there are also charges for using the railway road, so maybe President Faltýnek took it more widely. That not only the toll on the roads, but also the railroad toll will be solved. The third option - and as an experienced politician, I say it is almost most likely - was recommended by the regional leadership of a particular political party. We all know that: we have a handy man from our region, Minister, and our region could have someone there, so we recommend this person to you. Or, since Brno is a big city, it was Brno's leadership, whether political or party. These are four logical options for how the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways could have come to the nomination of Mr Švachula. I don't know which one was applied, it could have been a combination, he and he recommended it... Today, if you ask the YES movement, no one knows it. I mean, the former mayor admitted that he knew him, but he used that favorite line from "The Patriots' High Game": We were seeing each other, that's true, but we weren't close. [[12.30 hours]] I don't know how you know two politicians are close. Meeting frequency? I understand that the mayor's job line of business is running the city, which seems normal to me. I don't see anything wrong with that. But sending someone from the city to a state firm on a national level is no longer normal. If this person was nominated for Brno City Firms, I wouldn't ask because it is fully within the competence of the Brno Authority. So it had to be one of the four, or it was someone else. Perhaps there is another political option that gave the recommendation to the Minister or who gave the recommendation to the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways because it is formally the decision of the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways because it is a subsidiary company. I hope I get that answer today. A specific question for Minister Took. I have described the risks of President Faltýnek's negotiations with the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition at that stage of the contract that was. Do you feel the same way about the risks? Do you agree with me that at this stage, any contracting authority or contracting authority representative must not associate that the only possibility of communication is the contracting authority's profile and that when it was known that the competition had to be cancelled? I'm convinced of that. I could be wrong. But I consulted with people who are experts in competition law. I'm not the expert. That's not what Chairman Faltýnek was talking about. He kept coming back to the way that Took saved more than... First of all. I'm saying that's the difference between a hand job and a contract that's competing. And I think it's fair to say to those prices that technology is changing and the world is changing. And if you really look at the prices of laptops, tablets, phones and you criticize your predecessors, that tablets, phones or laptops ten years ago bought more than today, you can be right that it was expensive, but you always have to compare the specific situation on the market. And I am in no way defending the original treaty, and I agree with the critical description of this treaty and the amendments made by Minister Ťok. I'm not saying in detail, I don't know all the details, and I can't know all the details, but basically I agree with that. But the question we have to debate today, whether or not the toll contract was compromised by an inappropriate contact between the contracting authority's representative who appointed himself as the contracting authority's representative - "I took the mandate" - whether or not the independence and impartiality of the decision of the competition authority were threatened, whether or not the government would do something about the President of that office, we have not yet received an answer to that. If we get proper and credible answers to these questions and it is not the fairy tales of a sheep's grandmother, we will not propose a resolution. I think that then the discussion of this point has fulfilled its purpose. I deliberately avoided on behalf of our club all the circumstances that accompany illegal disclosure of information, for example, from a search warrant. We're not doing that. It might be comfortable, but I'm sure we won't quote from it, we won't ask that. I think that's what the Minister said or the Chairman of the Faltýnek. It's police business to act. The fact that we critically evaluated Tuesday, and to this day we have not changed that view that it is really extremely wrong to use a very gentle expression that it can happen, that the information will appear in the press, and the first thing the state authorities will say: it was not from us. I don't quite believe it. That's why I asked the Home Secretary. He trusts the police. I also asked the Attorney General if he had leaked it from his department. He hasn't answered my question yet. Not to me, not publicly, to make sure that the information wasn't leaked out of the second resort. I underline the word purposefully, because this is something we should not accept, and it doesn't matter whether it happens to our political competitors or to our own political party. At least our approach is always the same and I ask the same of you that we do not tolerate such things so that ministers within their respective competences are able to intervene and next time prevent illegal disclosure of information which is not public under the law. And that would have been a wider debate about the hundred and sixty, when we discussed yesterday whether or not such a thing could be published on the basis of Law No. 106. However, I have asked specific questions, particularly for Minister Took, and I would like to be on behalf of our club, if we could learn the answers to these questions today. I was already skeptical at 11:00 that we would close that point today. I don't think it's going to work out today, so I hope we do it either in a variable week or in the first week of the next meeting so that we don't get to finish that point again in another nine months or, unfortunately, another illegal leak of information into the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u25	I will now request the speech of the President of the Pirates' Club, Jakub Michálek, with priority rights, and I will read two apologies before you arrive in front of the microphone. Mr František Vácha apologizes between 12.20 and 14.30 for reasons of work. And Mr Petr Pávek apologizes between 14 and 18 for family reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And it will be prepared - I do not yet have another priority right - Mr Milan Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be more brief than President Stanjura, and I would begin by saying that what we have heard here so far from Mr Faltýnek in relation to the information that was in the media can only be described as a great mist. There were no answers to any questions that, of course, are running here, whether in the media or here from the MPs. So I'm only going to make a brief recap. My aim, of course, is not to exhaust the entire space until the end of this point of procedure so that we can get concrete answers to those questions. Given that this is a rather serious corruption scandal, because the police are talking about bribery crimes and organized criminal groups, I think it is very important that we discuss this here and at the same time avoid the information that we all know from the media, because there are already statements in the media that allegedly President Faltýnek should have told the President of the UOHS according to police documents at the meeting on 10 November 2017: "It is necessary to do what Kapsch wants to do." I think this is the subject of what we want to know the answer to, not the historical training on how the myth was closed. That's completely irrelevant right now. So I would like to sum up, through Mr President, questions about Mr Faltýnek, who should answer us. Firstly, I would like to know who has been informed about the activities around the toll system that Mr. Faltýnek has been developing. Secondly, I would like to know in what way the coordination, which, as President Faltýnek said, partly did with the Minister of Transport Ťok on matters relating to negotiations between the President of the ÚHOS Petr Rafaj and the director of the company Kapsch Karel Feix. Three. In your statement, you said that you met with all the participants in the toll system tender. Can you please state how many times and for what purpose you have met or communicated with representatives of the company Kapsch, CzechToll, SkyToll or Chairman of the ÚOHS by Petr Rafaj? Four. Can you please explain in particular how you calculated the amount of 1.5 billion you mentioned in your performance? This has been partially answered, but I think only partially. Five. In police documents, according to Law, you are described as an intermediary between the director of the company Kapsch Karel Feix and President of the ÚOHS Petr Rafaj, while the search warrant states that both of these persons are being investigated for suspicion of receiving bribes or bribes. So can you explain if it's true that you were acting as a mediator, or what was the role of a mediator? Six. According to the police documents quoted in the Journal of Law, during the meeting on 10 November 2017, you told the President of the UOHS: "It is necessary to do what Kapsch wants to do. " Can you disprove or confirm that you have made this statement and possibly comment on what it has to do with the fact that it is not possible to undermine the independence of the UOHS? Seven. According to Law, your meeting with the director of Kapsch is described in the search warrant as follows: "The meeting resulted, inter alia, in agreement between the two on the next procedure, namely that Faltýnek will arrange for the decision-making of the Rafaj in the case of an electronic toll system for the benefit of Kapsch at the President of the ÚOHSu Rafaje. " So is this characteristic true or not? Did you really promise Mr. Feix that you would arrange for Mr. Rafaj to influence the decision of the HOUSE? [[12.40 hours]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I hope it doesn't... That's not from Mr. Faltýnek, it's from SPD colleagues. Then I'd like a response from Mr. Faltýnek. And the last question, number eight, concerns the councilman of the ANO movement of Mr. Jiří Švachula. And it has already been heard from President Stanjura. I would like to ask you for the eighth time, through Mr President, who pushed the accused councilman of the ANO movement, Mr Jiří Švachula, into ČD Cargo's Supervisory Board in 2017. If Mr. Faltýnek doesn't know, I'll ask the Minister of Transport to comment. I don't think what's been said so far is an expression of the nature of this case. We're pretending that the essentials don't exist here. And I think the excuse that the media wouldn't write that is completely misleading when your chairman owns the Lidové noviny and the Mladá frontu TODAY through the trust fund. The approach you have to the media is absolutely incomparable with the rest of the political scene, especially with regard to those media that are owned by your President or which have very close business relations with your President's holding. Thank you for your attention and for answering these questions in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u27	I now have a request for a factual remark from Mrs Pekarová. But before you reach the microphone, let me read three apologies again. So Mr Richter apologizes today from 14:30 to 17:00 for reasons of work, Mr Radim Fiala does not apologize, and Mr Aleš Juchelka apologises from 14:30 to the end of the negotiations for reasons of work. Madam, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm trying to get that answer from the Minister here because I'm afraid we're about to end this point again, and he won't have any room. So again, I call on him to answer the question I asked. I didn't just ask Mr. Faltýnek, I asked you, too, Minister, a specific question. If you knew about this, he was informed of all the meetings, what Mr. Faltýnek was involved in. And so the answer still didn't come out here. So I would hate for you to keep your mouth shut until the end of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u29	I now call on Mr Feranc to step forward. And Mr. Marian Jurečka will be ready. And, as the honourable Member has announced, I would just like to remind you that we are negotiating until 13:00 at the moment. So I would like to remind you that I will interrupt the meeting at 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u30	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on what has been said here on the subject of myth. I think I know something about it. I worked at the Department of Transport as Deputy. I am glad that the Minister here explained the time consistency, because in various performances they are constantly out of ignorance, perhaps from the intention of mixing different stages, stages of dealing with the toll system. I'm so glad he explained it, and I assume everyone understood. The question of the Faltýnek case. I don't really want to deal with the actions of law enforcement authorities. None of us, I hope, have seen the original documents. And I don't want to deal with it as a variety of media speculations. However, I will stop at one media speculation, and this is media speculation - Faix asked Faltýnek to arrange for cancellation at the UOHS. Crime! When I compared it to the case, I said it was a dog wag. But I was thinking one more movie, maybe you know it - Minority Report, where crime was preceded. The problem with this speculation is that the crime didn't happen. The President of the Bureau has not canceled the competition. On the other hand, he canceled the first-degree decision, thereby canceling the competition. That's for the record. I'm just saying, a crime that didn't happen, or a crime without a victim. But I'm just responding to media speculation. And I don't want to stand up for anyone. I don't know the police documents, unlike maybe you. About what was said here. Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Bartošek said we proposed that point in May 2018. Why wasn't the House discussing him? Well, there was a competition in May 2018. She's been declared 17. 6. There was, I think, an appeal against the first decision. Well, the competition wasn't over. I don't think he's happy to interfere. Another matter, said a colleague here, Michálek, asking questions. And how is it that politicians meet, MEPs meet with someone? If you're all going to claim that you haven't met, for example, Mr. Director Kapsch, then look at the contact list first. But I don't see anything illegitimate about an MP accepting someone. The problem is different. And I have here an official document that was discussed by the Economic Committee. 19 days. 6. 2018, at the time of the competition, the Ministry filed a breakdown and fellow pirát suggested a point on the issue of tolling system where they describe how the competition is bad, non-transparable and so on. It's okay. The problem is, it's directly from Kapsch's submission to the UOHS, directly written. Maybe that's how you felt, I understand. And most of all, what shocked me was that I was already saying that on the committee - the Pirates Club then recommended the Ministry of Transport to withdraw the submitted decay of the office. What would that mean? Well, the competition would have been canceled, it wouldn't have happened. What would have to happen? Well, the deal with Kapsch. Fortunately, the Ministry of Transport has undoubtedly disobeyed the well-meaning advice of the pirát. Luckily, the pirát didn't run the Department of Transport. So it turned out the way it did. In conclusion - I repeat again, I know how this myth thing went - I want to say one thing, I think important. Myth is a huge IT system, you all know that. Those aren't the toll gates. And the fact that it was able to compete, and perhaps for the first time in the history of the Czech Republic, the supplier of the IT system, I consider it a huge success. Huge success. And it belongs to the Minister of Transport, Deputy Minister Kopřiv, whom I know, Mr Krumphanzl and other people involved. I thank all the politicians who expressed their support at the time. So, once again, thank you for doing this, and that it didn't turn out the way some people suggested, maybe naively, some wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u31	Mr Polanský will now make a point of fact. And Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared in the general debate. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u32	Thanks for the word. I thank the speaker for reminding me of my document which I brought to the Committee on Economics in June, which raised some interesting questions about the tender that no one has ever given me an answer to. Now, get to the point. You quoted part of the chapter called the navrhovaný procedure. At the beginning of that chapter, the statement I proposed that the Economic Committee be accepted as its own. I'll read them. The Economic Committee asks the Government to carry out an independent audit of the economy of the entire plan to obtain a new electronic myth system according to the parameters anchored in the contract number Z22017015974. Date of September 2018. [[12.50 hours]] In the next chapter we describe how we think the situation should behave on the basis of a document forwarded by the Ministry of Transport to the Audit Committee. So I'm going to read the whole short-term solution. Pirates support the implementation of variant B3, or B2, referred to in the previous point and withdrawal of the submitted degradation to the UOHS, i.e. B3, B2: a new procurement procedure to ensure the operation of the existing system by a new supplier, or B3: ensuring the operation of the existing system by an organisational component of the State or by a state enterprise. I'm quoting the Ministry of Transport's material. I will add the long-term solutions offered by the pirát to move on. The current toll system will cost indirectly, or in the form of outsourcing, B2, B3, to operate for the next five to ten years. The proposed extension of the selection of 900 kilometres of first-class roads is not realized. [[Nesroz.]] After the toll system is closed, the Ministry of Transport will focus on two activities. First, the substantive intention of the toll bill, where it will primarily regulate the principles and long-term concept of charging the road network in the Czech Republic, and second, a technological study of the feasibility of the system without the cost option of tolling the system based on technological development. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u33	There. I now received another factual, chair of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek. Well, your two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u34	I was going to ask Mr. YES not to draw attention from the case we are discussing here, Mr. Faltýnek. It wasn't me or any other member of the Pirate Club who would deal with President Rafaj, so let's stick to the merit of the matter. And please, if you could not leave the remaining very short time for President Faltýnek and Minister of Transport Táok to introduce us to the answers to these questions, and not that there will be another ten members of the YES who will be singing to the Minister of Transport, how many billions we have saved. I don't think that's the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u35	So, another enrollment, Mr. Marian Jurečka. I will ask you to speak and prepare Mr Polanský in the general debate. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u36	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, Members, said here in the opening part when the Minister of Transport, Mr Took, Chairman of the ANO Faltýnek Parliamentary Club, spoke a lot of praise for how we actually have a great Minister of Transport, an amazingly functioning Ministry of Transport. I confess, I am a little astonished, because even though we are discussing some of the materials on the Economic Committee with some of our colleagues for the YES movement, we often hold back on the quality of the Ministry of Transport under the leadership of this minister, what legislative pasquilis we have here in the Chamber of Deputies, which we are then correcting with amendments. However, to the substance of this point, which we are discussing here. I'll take a few recaps. Minister of Transport Tok here spoke about how he joined in 2015, how he wanted to solve the problem, what difficult pitfalls he had, why it couldn't be done. And I think that if today's tapes are studied by law enforcement agencies, the appearances that have been here before will be given a lot of interesting suggestions, which they should also deal with when they are already saving this matter. And I will recall some important facts in this matter. In 2016, the Minister of Transport Ťok repeatedly brought material to the Government asking for an extension of the selection of the myth for Kapsch under the so-called negotiated procedure without publication. A large part of the members of the government at the time said in their opinions that we do not see any reason for this negotiated procedure without publication to be applied to the extension of the toll system, that there was sufficient time to prepare the competition. The Minister here used the argument that there are some additions that simply did not allow a new public, publicly competitive entity to take over the myth selection system after 1. 1. 2017. It is evident from the public output, but also from the personal meeting that there was an entity that offered that, in a possible tender, he was prepared to submit a better offer first and despite all alleged obstacles made by the Minister and the Ministry of Transport, from 1. 1. 2017 operate myth selection and secure revenue to the state budget. It was SkyToll that made the offer that day. And there were these amazing numbers that were able to negotiate a discount. Let me remind you that this company's offer was one billion lower each year than that allegedly super negotiated discount at Kapsch. For the years 2017 to 2019 the state could therefore save another three billion crowns. I will also remind you that the decision of the Office for the Protection of Competition with a completely ridiculous fine today is being examined by the European Commission. The European Commission has asked the Government of the Czech Republic about this matter and the government has not responded to the letter from the information I have. So that's the first part of this story. The fact that a negotiated procedure has been entered here without publication with insufficient arguments. I think if the investigators play the tapes from the government's meeting on this subject, they'll get a lot of interesting information. I remember that the Minister at the time did not want to say his personal position as a guarantor of public procurement in this matter, and finally after the second meeting of the Government, she read the opinion of the Legal Department, which was, I would say, at least, at least debatable. Then I will also remind you that the Minister mentioned here that in 2015, 2016, but also in 2018, he had an offer to run the entire selection system on his own. He owns the infrastructure, the Customs personnel are involved today, and there's just some part of the alleged know-how that Kapsch is offering here. He was very lax about it. I missed a study that would say why I did or why I didn't. Why the state can or cannot take over and run and save so much money. How is it possible that some countries in the surrounding countries can do that? Are there such supermen? We don't have the superman? Then when we look at another mosaic of the story, there is a great suspicion as to how the Minister of Transport fulfilled the principle of a proper economy. If he prepared a tender in which he stated, as a necessary condition, that a toll would be collected on more than 900 kilometres of first-class roads, and repeatedly said that this condition is necessary and constant - what led you, Minister, to decide that 14 days after you signed a contract with SkyToll, there would be a zero toll rate on those 900 kilometres? Why does the state here through us taxpayers have to spend money building a system out of which they won't raise a crown? How is this change in the position of the Ministry of Transport defendable and explainable? I haven't heard that answer from you anywhere. Then I will also remind you that, for example, Kapsch said that if there were to be a toll after 2020 on express roads, that is, it would not have to build infrastructure for those 900 kilometers, so the offer was 3.85 billion cheaper. So, in sum from 2017, if you really did, Minister, take care of the proper economy, the state, the Czech Republic, tax payers, as the chairman of the ANO Faltýnek movement said here that what could be for the money, for the discount that was negotiated, we would save another seven billion crowns. So I think these are pretty serious moments. And I believe that it is the care of the proper economy, the change in the position of why we are competing to a certain extent, 14 days after the treaty is signed, that is what I hope is what the law enforcement authorities are interested in today. Why the Minister of Transport has made such a change, which means wasting our taxpayers' money. And I would ask if the Minister of Transport Ťok could respond to how the Ministry of Transport is building, or the Government of the Czech Republic to the questions of the European Commission in the case of both JŘBU's 2016 contract and now last year, whether the law was broken here and whether the Ministry of Transport's approach, but also the Office for Competition Protection, was in order and in accordance with our and European legislation. Thank you for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u37	So now, with priority rights, Minister Ťok the floor. However, we have one minute. So we're gonna ask the minister to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u38	So just for a very short time, because there's been a lot of things said here that are a lie. One. The European Commission was saving the myth for SkyToll. And this investigation, this infringement, is over, so it hasn't come to any violation. At the same time, it did not spare, and it had no reason to save the new tender, because it was a condition for us to even achieve the infringement. And the second thing I would like to say here to Mr Jurečka through Mr President. The police have already saved the extension several times and postponed it and have not come to the conclusion that there was any error. So I'd like you to publish this kind of lie here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u39	There. We have 13 hours. I'm interrupting the meeting, we'll continue with the interpelations at 2:30. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-002-149.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by not wasting any time. The next item, item, number 158, is:
