ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u1	97. Jan Birk, Pavel Kováčik, Karel Tureček and Zdeněk Podal a bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and on the amendment of certain laws (water law), as amended /German press 321/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 321/1. I thank my colleague Kupek for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table, and we can begin with the presentation of the petitioners' representative. The word is... Not yet, when the House calms down a bit... Ladies and gentlemen, please hold debates that are not related to the law of construction in principle outside the Chamber - especially in front of the table... I'll wait a little longer... Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, as has been said, I am the representative of the petitioner, fellow Members Pavel Kováčik, Karel Tureček, Zdeněk Podal, who are trying to issue a law amending Act 183 Coll., on spatial planning and construction rules, building law, and on waters and amending certain laws, so-called. Water law. Let me describe very briefly what is the aim of the proposed adjustment. Above all, it is an increase in the resistance of the landscape to the effects of drought and water retention in the landscape in response to the ever more frequent occurrence of so-called. Metrology drought. The proposed proposal seeks to achieve the creation of a special group of landscaping measures for water retention in the countryside and to facilitate their authorisation, as well as the authorisation of a legal area defined by the so-called "circumstance'. small water cannons. Off-road modifications. In the list of cases for which territorial consent is sufficient, the construction of field treatment for water retention in the landscape is added, the maximum allowed size with the appropriate depth of one and a half metres, including and a maximum permissible area of two hectares. The terrain modifications used for water retention in the landscape will not require, in view of their nature, a building permit or an announcement. This field treatment is not subject to housewarming. The construction of these lands is limited only to land which does not border with public roads or public areas. Also small waterworks. Building the definition of the group is added to the list of cases for which territorial consent is sufficient. small water cannons. These waterworks will have a maximum permissible area of 2 hectares and a height of a dam of less than 1.5 metres, will serve to cool and accumulate water and will either not be subject to technical security supervision or will not meet the criteria for classification in the fourth category of technical security supervision. [[or]] For this waterwork it is sufficient to declare the water service and it will not be necessary to apply for a building permit under Section 15 of the Water Act. In agreement with the notification, water management is to be considered as permitted, minimum residual flow rate per determined. If the notified waterwork is subject to technical security supervision, the consent to the notification shall be deemed to be classified in its fourth category. These waterworks can only be used on the basis of the approval or approval decision. For the above-mentioned landscaping and small waterworks summary, further adaptations are proposed as part of this amendment. The possibility of granting territorial consent will also be possible if the intention is outside the built-up territory or a pauseable area and if the intention is located outside the protected territory under Part Three or Fourth Nature and Landscape Conservation Act and the binding opinion of the nature conservation authorities is not required. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little comment. I want to say that this amendment was consulted primarily from the workshop of the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, consulted with the present Minister of Agriculture Toman, with the fact that, of course, I was asked as a representative of the petitioner, and I thank my colleagues who signed under this law. So I ask you to let this law into the first (?) reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u3	Thank you, Mr Birke. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Martin Kupka to present the news report. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u4	Mr President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a group of Members Jan Birke, Pavel Kováčik, Karel Tureček and Zdeněk He submitted his bill to the House on 1 November 2018. The proposal was then sent to the government on 5 November, and the government sent its position back on 4 December, and on the same day it was sent to all Members just like the 321/1 press with a neutral opinion. As has been said, the whole proposal is motivated, in particular, by creating better conditions for the construction of works to be used to contain water in the countryside. The proposal clearly responds to a number of serious findings that the land is drying up in the Czech Republic, and the Czech Republic is taking various steps to prevent further drying. The intention to simplify the construction of such works to all builders by simplifying bureaucracy is clearly one way to also strengthen the construction of elements that will hold a point in the Czech landscape while strengthening biodiversity in the regions of water works, possibly terrain modifications. The draft law does not entail any new obligations which would impose a financial burden on the state budget. It does not impose any burden on self-governing localities or on taxpayers. It can be objectively stated that its approval would reduce the administrative burden on those who, whether as private investors or as those who, as representatives of self-government, would intend to build such waterworks or such landscaping, would, of course, be relieved. At the same time, the proposal is compatible with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not contradict any European legislation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Tomio Okamura is entitled with priority, Mrs Vrecionová will prepare herself. Mr Vice-President, before I give you my word, I apologise to Mr Farský for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 15.30 to 17.15 hours for working reasons. And now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft amendment to the Construction Act has one objective: it tries to simplify, speed up the territorial consent regime and accelerate at least some construction projects. Zdeněk Podal, a Member of the SPD, was also involved in this proposal. What puzzles me is the opinion of the government, which has taken only a neutral position on the proposal, with the reason that it is said that the proposal is inconclusive. It is the government that has failed in the long run. The government is unable to process the amendment to the Construction Act so as to be simple, transparent and speed up construction, at least above the level of African countries. You hear me well. According to the Doing Business report published by the World Bank, the Czech Republic is in the processing of building permits in 127th place from 185 compared countries. In fact, the situation is much worse, because the World Bank evaluated criteria other than the very length of the construction process. If we consider only the length of the construction permit, the Czech Republic with 247 days is even in 165th place. This is indeed a terrible business card for the five years of the government of the ANO movement, which has been under the authority of the Ministry of Regional Development all along. They're not working, and it won't get any better. The government of the ANO and ČSSD movement, which is in fact at the end of the second term, has been ruling for the sixth year, has absolutely no moral right to reproach our Members for incompetence. Concepts, system work, that's the primary task of government, ministers and their apparatus, that's what citizens pay for. The level of the existing construction law and the level of the work of government politicians and our authorities show quite clearly that their work is one of the worst on the planet. Construction, construction of investment units, family houses or, for example, waterworks and communications, this is the business card of a civilized country. When someone says the word we work hard, let them first remember the simple fact: Our legislation and the work of bureaucrats has brought us not to the level, but below the level of equator Africa. And the World Bank's numbers prove it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u7	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. Now, before I give the floor to Mrs Vrecionová, I state another apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Monika Jarošová from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. And I'm going to ask my colleague Vrecionová to wait, because I have a de facto comment from Mrs Pěnčíková. No? Then make a mistake, the better. You have your word. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, Madame, gentlemen. I would like to thank the petitioners very much for this proposal that we are discussing here today, and I would like to ask you all very much for his support. We've been talking for years about how to fight drought, what needs to be done to keep the landscape from water. And I think this is the first step, the first act. I spoke to a number of people who wanted to build a pond or a small water area on their property, and I can assure you that this is an entirely superhuman task. And the construction law, in its present form, is really one of the major obstacles. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] However, while I have the floor, I would like to draw attention here to other issues that need to be addressed and which we are already talking about repeatedly. The point is that we will be discussing the amendment to the forest law in the foreseeable future, where many owners are essentially prevented from building even a small water area, the current form which obliges them to pay a considerable amount for exemption from the forest soil fund. I've been alerted by representatives of the Department of Agriculture that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u9	I will interrupt you, my colleague, and ask the House again for peace. Please, let us respect that the one who has been given the floor speaks in the House and transfer the other debates to the lobby. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u10	Thank you, too. I was assured that there was an order by the Minister, which of these owners, or rather, imposes on the financial... trade unions of the environment, so that they would not collect this fee, but it is obviously a mess. Either the representatives of these respective unions don't know it, or they're actually afraid to let the owners know that the regulation will be amended again. That is why forest law would need to be amended. Furthermore, I was also very surprised because, at some time in November, on the Committee on Agriculture, I spoke to the Bureau about the fact that it would be good to amend the real estate tax, because all the landscape elements that are on agricultural land are managed as the so-called other area and are actually burdened with much higher real estate taxes than the agricultural land around it. This means, unfortunately, when we have actually been talking for many years about how we need to support the emergence of new landscape elements, pools, winds, marshlands and so on on agricultural land, so unfortunately, and I have heard this, I hope it is a rumor that some farmers even plow these landscape elements because they pay a much higher property tax. That is why I was very surprised by what farmers have recently turned to me with. And I'm gonna take advantage of the Secretary of Finance sitting here. I wanted to ask because the tax authorities started applying a higher property tax to these landscape elements, even in the press. I'm prepared to interpel the Minister on this matter. There hasn't been a change in the law, probably just a change in the behaviour of officials, when they're actually demanding farmers this year to prove that the wetland is really a wetland, that the pool is a pool, that it's not used for other purposes, which I think is exactly the thing that is absolutely demotivating for farmers to have landscape elements on their agricultural land, to maintain, or to build new ones. In conclusion, I am very much asking for the support of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u11	Thank you, Mrs Vrecionová. Mr Martin Kupka, now with priority right, rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u12	I took the liberty of signing up and resigning a bit from the rapporteur's role to express my own opinion on the draft law under discussion. I'm convinced that's a step in the right direction. I would also like to ask for your support. We often wonder how to motivate the creation of such works, which would really have a chance to preserve water in the landscape, and we are even trying to focus precisely on making small works that are not necessarily investment-intensive and at the same time their negative impact on the environment is as small as possible. I am convinced that when the Ministry invents financial support, it is up to us to offer legislative support in this regard. And reducing the administrative burden on these particular works is, in my opinion, the minimum we can do. I have carefully read all the comments that the government has finally discussed with a neutral opinion, and I am convinced that the risk that we, along with this simplification, would avoid protecting the public interest in nature and landscape protection is really minimal. I believe that, in this case, simplification of administration is appropriate. It's in the interest of learning to keep water in the countryside better. At the same time, I am convinced that this does not create any significant negative effects, for example, on the part of other public interest, which means that we are passing away or unable to defend ourselves effectively enough. At the same time, I think it is not just the government, but the political agendas of all the political groups. They like to mention how we should try to simplify administration on all fronts. This is another concrete example of simplifying the administration, and it is happening in the right place. Therefore, I would ask you very much to give this proposal a positive attention and support in the course of the legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u13	Thank you, Mr Kupek. That was the case in the proper debate. Now also in the debate, Mr Jan Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I will also attempt a short response, not so much to the opinion of President Tomio Okamura, in general. I mean, there's no ambition here to interfere with the competences of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister in the amendment to the Construction Act. No. Here is the ambition exactly what the rapporteur says: to simplify the administration in terms of the competence of water sustainability in nature, which is clearly a matter for the Ministry of Agriculture. And in this respect, it seems to all of us together that this proposal has a head and a heel, to put it simply. So once again, please, just like the rapporteur's colleague, for your support, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u15	Thank you, colleague Birke. Now in the debate, Mr Kováčik. We are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, Mrs and gentlemen, for quite a long time we have all been convinced here, and more and more, that important steps must be taken to keep water in the countryside. That we need to do everything we can to make sure that our country doesn't become desert after the desert, to keep life in the countryside, not just the agricultural life, but all life, biodiversity and so on. It's a noble thing to build a dam. We retain water for various needs and purposes, including its use in the landscape as a landscape element. But it's been decades since the intent to implement. While building such a small pond in the agricultural landscape, or possibly restoring one that has been there for many years, decades, maybe centuries, and then disappeared, it takes a much shorter time and is a more effective measure for water retention in the landscape. Here we have the first step - and with this proposal we have come up with it - the first step to take from words, i.e. from the mouth, the revolutionary turn into hands and we had a chance to really hold back the water in the landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u17	Thank you. I have no further application for the debate yet. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. It's not like that. We can therefore vote on proposals - not to return or to refuse because they did not fall in the debate. The rapporteur checks that this is the case. Then we shall consider the proposals for the commandment for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. I started voting number 177. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's vote number 177. The registration is 176 Members, for 136, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for another commission on the commandment? Yes, my colleague Pěnčíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Since this proposal also affects the law on conservation of nature and landscape, I also propose an environmental committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u19	Yes, thank you. This is my colleague, Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u20	Thank you. In that case, of course, I propose that the next committee be a committee of agriculture for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-006-097.u21	Yes. Anyone else on the committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote in the vote number 178, which I have begun, on the commandment of the Committee on the Environment. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 178 voting. From the presence of 176, for 98, against 4. The motion was accepted. The next proposal that we will be voting on is to order the Committee on Agriculture. We will decide in the 179 vote that I have begun. I'm asking who's for the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 179 voting. From the present 175, for 138, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this press was also directed to the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture. There has been no proposal in the debate for a shortening or extension of the time limit for discussion and, therefore, the period for discussion in the committees is 60 days. Thank you, draftsman's representatives, thank you, rapporteur, and end with item 97. Before we go any further, I apologise to Mrs Jana Krutáková for family reasons on 12 and 13. 2. for the entire day of the hearing. The next item is the item number
