ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u1	16. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 250/ - second reading On the Senate's authority, Senator Jitka Seitlová will state the bill. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u2	Mr President, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members, I will speak quietly so that I can be heard. [[The senator speaks very quietly.]] It's not because I have any opinion that there's noise, but because the layout is really so big that I'm gonna have to improvise like this. You okay? It's okay. [[The O.R.'s down a little.]] I come before you for the second time with a proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act. It is a relatively short amendment, has about four or five provisions and concerns § 47. What is the aim of this amendment? The aim is to eliminate unfair obligations imposed on owners of real estate on which the burden of distribution elements of energy networks has been set up, and to always cover the costs of translating these energy networks, even where such transfers are absolutely necessary. The current law in force for many years, and I will say before 1990, says that energy companies have the right to establish distribution elements of electricity networks on the property of owners, always. If the owner resists, there is, of course, the right and the form of expropriation. For being set up on your house, for example, it's usually that console, so you'll get some replacement. The replacement is in the order of hundreds to several units of thousands of crowns. Earlier before 1990, it was not even that, because the owners did not dare to ask for anything, we know that ownership was then a major obstacle and a disadvantage and a concern. The current law states that in all cases, where the applicant - may be the owner of the work or the person who has the translator as an operator - each of these applicants always pays the costs of the translation. The cost of the translator is about fifty, one hundred thousand, and I've even noticed recently, people write to me even 150 thousand. And we in the Senate have prepared a proposal that wants to remove the exception, when the cases are clearly unfair, for applicants to pay for this translation. It's in cases, and the law, the proposal that lies with you, it defines it as a situation where the distribution element, the console, or it could be something else, damages the object and the operator, the owner of the distribution system, doesn't make a correction, or in cases where it imposes any change on the house that triggers the translator, it imposes a law. We are thinking above all of the building law. The situation in practice is that I have cases where people turn to me, the house has to be demolished. Okay, but you have a console there. Well, you're gonna pay 150 grand to translate that console for you. In discussing this small proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act, I have not met anyone who would see the situation as fair. Yes, it's a certain exception to these situations. The debate that went well was very long and was about how to formulate these unfair cases. We have them both in the law, but in particular there is an insurance policy that says that in cases where this is not clear or there will be a dispute, the regulatory authority decides. [[11.30 hours]] And then there is another thing in the law, and it was also a very extensive discussion or commentary that goes not only to me, but certainly to you that the cost of the translator that is charged, and de facto is always carried out by the distributor or by the one who runs the energy network, are too high. Those comments come from the municipalities, they come from the citizens. Thus, we have also given the obligation that whoever carries out the translation, whether at the expense of the person concerned or at the expense of someone else, must give the person who pays the bill the cost of the item to him in advance and then settle the bill. Once again, disputes would be decided by the Regulatory Authority. It is a very short amendment, and I ask you to pay attention and consider whether it would be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u3	Thank you. I thank the House for keeping the peace. I will introduce the House to two apologies: the Member and Chairman of the pirát' Club, Michálek, apologizes to us until the end of the meeting day from 10.30 pm due to participation in the funeral. And the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes from 10.15 to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Economic Affairs number 183 of 15 May 2019 on the Senate Bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws /energy law/, as amended, House press 250. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the interpretation of Senator Jirka Seitlová and the intelligence report by me and after a general and detailed debate, recommends first of all to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to reject the press 250. Secondly, he instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee, and thirdly instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u5	Thank you. I will add that the committee's resolution has been delivered as House press number 250/2 and that, therefore, the guarantee committee is an economic committee. I am now opening a general debate to which only Mr Jurečka is entered at the moment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Madam Senator, allow me to comment on this House's press because I was also present at the meeting of the Economic Committee as a member. And I think that the resolution that has been made here is not entirely optimal here, even though it has won the majority at the meeting of the Economic Committee at that moment. But if we have repeated proposals here in the House during, for example, this term of office of the House, e.g. to abolish the real estate tax, or we are trying to straighten out unfair practices against consumers here, if we are following, for example, the activities of Mr Patrik Nacher's colleague, so let's ask ourselves a question - this proposal, this Senate amendment, makes sense in trying to eliminate some disproportion in this fair environment, which is simply not here in this case. Why does the owner of the property, who also pays properly for the electricity of his invoice, have to bear on his house, on his real estate equipment that is used for the transmission of electricity, and thus for the business of another entity? And in a situation where he's reconstructing this building, he has to bear the cost of that particular translator at that moment. Just when you think about it and you're in the situation of the person who owns the property, in the situation of a young family who needs the house, for example. tear down or do reconstruction, so it really is not fair that you are in a situation de facto serf who has to pay the costs, and moreover those costs are not even detailed to him. I would really like us to think here, despite this resolution by the Economic Committee, about the fact that this tiny amendment to the Energy Act is coming to the citizens, especially those who are trying to improve their housing in some way, which in most cases are just young families. And there were sums that said that these costs are in tens of thousands of crowns. 14 days ago, we had a big debate here about raising the charges for the real estate register. And if we were discussing whether CZK 2,000 is large, or if there is not a large amount and complicated housing costs, in this case we are talking really about the amounts that are essential, which are often close to half the amount of real estate tax that was mentioned here, which was proposed by the ODS to cancel. So please, let's not change our attitude on a flat-rate basis. And I kind of feel that in this resolution because it's a Senate proposal because it's more or less a proposal represented by a senator representing an opposition party, so we have no intention of discussing it. I'm aware of the argument that might be made here that there's an amendment to the Energy Act. But let us ask ourselves when it will be discussed and when it will be effective. And with this small amendment, we can save tens of thousands of crowns here in a matter of months, primarily for people who live in the countryside, for families with medium and lower incomes and for young parents. Families who are trying to secure their housing. So I'm asking you nicely to consider how we're going to proceed with this decision. And I'd like us to let this novel go to third reading. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u7	Thank you, and Mr Adamec has applied to the debate from the point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u8	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Madame Senator, honourable Members, I think, of course, we all agree that the problem needs to be resolved. I think my colleague Jurečka has made it very clear here, but I do not think that this is from the title that the Senator would suggest it, or that it would even be an opposition proposal itself, but rather I see great problems there, and I am very sorry that this bill, which, in its own way, is very simply presented, is perhaps four paragraphs, but the content I see very problematic mainly in legal terms. And I'm sorry the Constitutional and Legal Committee didn't take it. 'Cause this isn't even about economics. Of course, I understand that it can have very unpleasant consequences for property owners if there is any change, but on the other hand, I always say, let's be careful not to spill the baby with the tub. Because there's actually a two-track thing going on here, and something that looks very simple that could be solved by the ERO's decision, and I'm not sure here that the ERÚ is even equipped for it legally. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't, I don't want to comment here to get to the fact that any disputes are going to go deeper, end up in civilian courts anyway, and they're going to stretch out for years, so the result is going to be, I'd say, very debatable. Personally, I have no objection to releasing it until the third reading. Not at all. But I think that it really should be addressed by colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Committee, because this is not about the principle, which is clear to us - why someone else should pay someone else's service, which I understand. But the point is that we just don't have a legal problem here, which, as a result, will mean that the situation will not be better the way the petitioners intended, but that, on the contrary, it will get worse and the problems will be dealt with for a much longer time than if the civil court directly addresses it. So it is only from my addition why, of course, the Economic Committee has taken a negative position, but I say I do not prevent it from going into third reading, but then I would ask the representative of the IDA to voluntarily take this bill, to examine it legally, because that is where I see the biggest problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u9	Thank you, too. I would like to make a procedural point that we will not vote if we refuse until third reading. And the motion to return to committee discussions has not yet been made. At this point, I don't have any more applications... Mr. Jurečka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u10	Thank you. I would also like to follow up on the previous speaker and, even now, after consulting the Senator before we vote here, if necessary, on the rejection, so I would like and I would like to propose that we return this amendment to the first reading, so that, if necessary, there is room for an extended discussion within the framework of a constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u11	Returning to first reading is not an entirely possible procedure, but it can be returned to the guarantee committee. Okay, I guess. And once again, I will remind you that the rejection vote will not take place until, if necessary, at the third reading. I will ask again if anyone else is reporting to the general debate at this time. [[Noise in the hall.]] If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or by the rapporteur. The plaintiff is interested. I ask the senator for the final word, and I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u12	Mr President, honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, although I speak very badly, let me conclude with a few words. [[Voice indisposition]] The exceptions which have been put forward to this proposal from a legal point of view are, let's say, to debate, but they are not essential and they are not such that we can clearly say that this is wrong as it is formulated. On the other hand, I agree with Mr Marian Jurečka's suggestion that this may come back. And I was almost surprised that the Economic Committee, no one had tabled amendments that could not be made to make any reservations, which could, in order to make this more precise, be made. So I would certainly welcome this situation. We've been talking here since I made the proposal, about a big energy bill. There will even be a small energy law. A little energy law is already here. It's a law on energy management. There was no solution to this problem. For almost a year she met at the Ministry of Industry and Trade with these translations of the Working Commission. She met for almost a year. And the problem, even though I say yes again, can certainly always be an improvement, and I would welcome it, but in that year, we couldn't find a deal to deal with the transpositions. [[Noise in the hall.]] The distribution companies just don't want it, and that's it. So they've always been against the work committee. The year of the meeting, and there was no solution. What I'm putting forward is a solution that is the way, and I don't think it really is, as it has been said here, that it has serious errors - no, I don't think it has serious errors. And we can discuss the individual provisions that are there. Ladies and gentlemen, there are distribution companies on one side. I understand them. If I were in their shoes, I'd also be defending any exception and change. But on the other hand, there are citizens, there are property owners, and Parliament is the one who has the interests to balance. And like I said, I haven't met anyone who would tell me that the way it is, it's right and fair. So please consider how to resolve the situation. [[Noise in the hall.]] We're not just here for distribution companies, although I don't want to go against them in any way. I understand their interest. But there's an interest in removing the obvious injustice that has been going on since the last regime. A gross, obvious injustice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u13	Thank you, too. I'm gonna call my colleagues in the O.R. because we're gonna vote. For the club. Okay, Mr. Adamec, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Senator, I would like to give you our opinion on behalf of the ODS. We'll support the return, the interruption... therefore return to the committee, back to the guarantee committee, with the call on the constitutionally-legal committee to comment on the legal aspects of the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-007-016.u15	Thank you. That was quite a challenge. I'm only for those who arrived after I called. We will vote on the return of this bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. If we all know what we're going to vote on, I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's up for it. Who's against it? I'm the one who logged in to see if there was an application for a check-out. Too late. I'm sorry, in that case, this vote is confusing. I'll check you all out first. Please sign up again with your cards and we will repeat the vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, maybe next time knock. That's better to hear. Looks like the number of applicants has stabilized. So I repeat what we are going to vote on. We will be voting to return this bill to a renegotiation of the guarantee committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 96, 127 Members and Members are registered, for 56, against 55. The motion has not been accepted, so we will continue the discussion. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be duly justified. I therefore ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate or possibly has any other procedural proposals. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is interest in the final words after a detailed debate. I don't think so. There have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. Let's keep going. And now there's a point
