ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u1	21. Mr Karel Rais's motion to issue a law amending the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended by Act No. 254/2016 Coll. House print 179/ - second reading I will ask Mr Karel Rais to present his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u2	Have a good day. In the law it is proposed to exempt the first bribery transfer of the apartment in the family house from the tax on the acquisition of real estate. The existing exemption in the law applies to me. for the first bribery acquisition of a family house or apartment in an apartment building, but not in a family house. The family house can then have up to three apartments according to the regulation. This proposal, which we are actually replacing a little bit of the injustice that was in the resolution, or which is in the Senate's legal measure, so we are essentially trying to compensate for the injustice. In fact, with the similar proposal that I approach here, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš came forward in the last parliamentary term, but the House did not decide on it until the elections. I think that's the core of the problem, and I'm ready to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u3	I thank you, the proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 179/2 and 179/3. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Roman Onderka, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I would just add to my colleague Rais that the aim of the proposed extension of the exemption is to maintain this exemption only in the case of new housing projects. At the same time, however, it is proposed to maintain the same legal conditions for the possibility of application of the exemption, i.e. provided that the acquisition of ownership of the unit in the family house takes place within five years of the date of completion or start of the unit used. I consider this proposal to be a technical standard which should be adopted without a problem and, accordingly, it looked like a discussion in the Committee on Budgets, where we agreed with it. As rapporteur, I recommend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Vice-President Okamura entered first and foremost.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement supports this bill, which specifies the withdrawal of the real estate tax so that it clearly applies to housing units in family homes. I would remind you that real estate is bought by people for taxed money and subsequently paid for property tax. That's enough taxes to at least cancel one. We have an economic slowdown and an economic recession ahead of us. These cyclic phenomena cannot be prevented, but their effects can be mitigated. Among other things, by making life cheaper for people and businesses and at least by strangling the economy with taxes and bureaucracy. In this respect, the right step would be to abolish the tax in question. It is better to abolish this entire tax than to say exceptions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u7	Thank you. A point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u8	Thank you for the floor. Just a reaction to the previous speaker. Please don't be interpreted as trying to increase the real estate tax. I really don't intend to. After all, it is within the competence of municipalities in coefficient 1 to 5. But if we are talking about what my previous speaker was talking about, that is, fiscal impulses that would increase the chance of economic growth, it is without any doubt true that it pays to raise property taxes and reduce income taxes that punish performance. That's just the way it is. To what extent it is politically passable, to what extent it is good or bad, it is another matter of discussion. But if we are talking about taxes or levies to stimulate economic growth, it is undoubtedly taxes that are linked to a job that is linked to performance. If the performance is punished by 50% tax, it is less motivated. And far less are property taxes. I'm just quoting the second year of the University of Economics. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u9	Thank you. At the moment, Mr Munzar is the first to be entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. I may start out untraditionally because I would actually like to thank Mr Rais for trying to correct one inequality that was given that units in family houses were not explicitly listed in the lockouts. It was a mistake that they weren't explicitly listed there. This caused complications for our citizens, although the legislator's purpose was evident from the outset. Unfortunately, the interpretation was not entirely in favour of our citizens. So I very much welcome it. But on this basis, I want to show one thing - that it de facto points to a trap of certain exceptions. So let's take a closer look at the property tax. What's her character today, anyway? The state collects a fee from our citizens for buying real estate on the territory of our country. This tax has no other character. It's actually like you're collecting a fee from your kids at home for building a kit in the living room that they bought from their pocket money. It's absurd, but that's exactly the nature of the property acquisition tax today. I consider this the most absurd tax in our tax system. By paying the tax from 2016, the buyer has lost all the rest of the logic. Because what else is this tax today than punishment, fine or penalty, let's call it what we want for buying real estate? Classic housing shouldn't be a luxury just for the richest. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will come up with a proposal to abolish the real estate acquisition tax. And since we have already presented this once in this parliamentary term as a separate bill, I will also mention the alternative reduction in this proposal so that we can at least give a little help to citizens when they are building their own property. The reason I'm going to propose this for the ODS is this. This - property acquisition tax - is clearly double taxation. The builder paid VAT, the buyer paid income tax. The tax is thus collected from already taxed money. That's not entirely normal. By the way, supporters often argue that VAT is counter-argued. But what is the value added to the economy that a private person buys property from another private person? New buildings are free. So what this tax really means is just collecting a fee from the buyer for the fact that he can buy a real estate. The price of real estate is rising rapidly throughout the whole Czech Republic, especially in Prague, in Central Bohemia. Cancellation, or at least by reducing this tax, would at least partially relieve people who buy their own property. Apart from the fact that the price of real estate is rising, and we perceive the housing market very sensitively, so is the regulation of demand from the Czech National Bank. We all know that mortgages have been tightened, participations are increasing, claims are increasing for those who are taking the mortgage. So today, the person who's going to buy the property has to be saved 20, or rather 25 percent for the participation and another 4 percent for the tax. Just to give you an idea - for a young person who has to buy a $3 million apartment because he's starting a family, the tax is CZK 120,000. For a young family, it's a few months' income. And I think a young family can use that money a lot better than paying the property acquisition tax, for example, for the purchase of a kitchen line, for renovations and the like. So the money won't go missing from the economy, but it will stimulate economic growth. The tax is collected only less than 1 per cent of the revenue of the state budget. In the approved budget for 2019, the government assumes the income of CZK 12.3 billion, which may seem to be a large amount at first glance, but it is indeed less than a percentage of revenue. So for the state, it's a minimum amount, but for the responsible person who's trying to secure his own roof over his head, it's unnecessary spending. By abolishing this tax or by reducing it, there will also be no threat to the state's function, while many people will make it easier for them to abolish it. I'm gonna mention one more thing I said here a year ago. There is a great inequality here before the law to which ordinary citizens are paying, because there is already a way not to pay this tax, and that is when you do not sell real estate, but you sell the company into which the property is inserted as a capital asset. You're selling the company, avoiding paying the property acquisition tax. So, on the one hand, we have big companies that can handle it through their lawyers, on the other hand, we have an ordinary citizen who wants to take care of his housing, he's responsible for his life, he wants to secure housing for his family, and we're punishing him with four percent of the extra property acquisition tax. When I was talking about regulations, today there is a tendency to regulate the demand side, the CNB mortgage and the state, for example, regulates the demand for housing by this tax. But frankly, the need for housing will not diminish by regulating demand. We see the problem on the supply side. And the solution is not that 4 percent of the tax is collected from anyone who goes to buy a real estate and makes money for it, and then send some of the money in some way only to someone selected for housing only someone selected. There we see that the problem is the lack of flats. The current situation leads to the fact that people who wanted to purchase their own property, given the prices and the lower availability of mortgages, will be looking for more rental apartments. And there's the same problem. Not enough flats. The rents will eventually grow. And instead of investing in their housing, young people will have to pay for borrowing foreign property, thereby narrowing down their own savings in mortgage borrowing and this very tax. In my view, we should support the citizens' own efforts for their own responsibility, which property housing brings. And one of the methods that is very fast and effective is not going to hurt the state significantly is the abolition, or at least the reduction of this tax. I would like to ask you at the third reading to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u11	Thank you. Another is entered in the general debate by Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would just like to add briefly to my colleague Munzar, who was talking about the possibility that some legal entities are using to sell the entire legal person. Thus, according to the information I have from the Ministry of Finance, they consider such an operation, where there is a fictional company for the sole purpose of owning one property and transferring it, to be regarded as circumventing the law, so if citizens know that something like this is going to happen and that the Office is going to find out about it, then they are able to actually assess the tax. In addition, I would like to mention that as pirát, we support the proposed amendment. We'll support her. In addition, we are putting forward two amendments which can further improve the functioning of this tax for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic and which I would now like to justify. The first concerns the introduction of a reduced tax rate for natural persons who do not own another real estate for housing. This bill amendment proposal has the task of making its own housing more accessible to a large part of the population. At a time when the CNB is increasing the interest rate and creating stricter regulation in the area of mortgages, the possibility of reducing the tax burden on its own housing seems to be a reasonable solution. According to the CNB's recommendation, 20 per cent of the value should be available at the moment for obtaining the mortgage. It is now necessary to add exactly the amount of property acquisition tax, i.e. 4 %, which is paid within three months of registration in the Land Register. This proposal adds the possibility to use reduced rates of property acquisition tax to those who buy the property for their own permanent residence and at the same time own no other such property. The proposal is, according to our estimates, more appropriate than the total abolition of this tax. In the event of a complete abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, in addition to a significant reduction in the revenue of the state budget by more than 12 billion, there would also be an increase in speculative and investment capital on the real estate market, which would mean an undesirable increase in real estate prices in the long term, and thus a reduction in the availability of own housing. If this tax was to be abolished, other market regulation would have to be found. [[15.30 hours]] The proposal envisages the possibility of using a reduced tax rate of 2 per cent for a whole or at least half of the value of the property purchased by a natural person or more natural persons for their own permanent housing for citizens of the Czech Republic, the EU and the European Economic Area. The rate is therefore reduced to half the basic rate. The same reduced rate for housing properties is used, for example, in the Netherlands, which is similar to the Czech Republic in demographic terms. The person must satisfy the condition that he does not own any real estate intended for housing or own at least 50% of the share of such property in the Czech Republic or in another country. Verification of property ownership by a natural person in the territory of the Czech Republic should be verified by the Office on the basis of a request to the Land Register. Ownership in the Czech Republic and outside the Czech Republic and fulfilment of other conditions is demonstrated by the natural person, for example, by an honest declaration. The proposal is based on similar legislation in force in other EU countries, such as the United Kingdom, Greece, Portugal, Italy, Ireland, the Netherlands, Finland, etc. According to the Finnish model, this reduction is limited by the age of the buyer, which must meet the age limit of 18 years. The lower age limit is intended for the purpose of circumventing the law by dividing shares into minors and at the same time to protect the rights of a child who could not use the reduction in question on his own property if he were a shareholder of a parent's property. As in Finland, this arrangement is also made up, among other things, to enable adult children to become more independent from their parents and thus have a better chance of acquiring their own permanent housing for their full family life. As in Greek, British or Portuguese legislation, the proposal limits the amount to which a reduced rate of tax can be used. Specifically, it's supposed to be worth 4 million. CZK from the tax base. Value 4 mil. was determined on the basis of the calculation according to the CNB's recommendation for mortgages. In October 2018, the CNB's recommendation, which states that 20 per cent must be available for the mortgage, the monthly payment should not exceed 45 per cent of the applicant's income and the total amount lent should not exceed the applicant's income for 9 years. If we multiply the average wage in the Czech Republic for 12 months and then 9 years, we will get 80 percent of the amount that the applicant can borrow if the remaining 20 percent is saved. If we count 100 percent of this amount, we get about CZK 4 million. Therefore, the value for the reduced tax rate is set at 4 million. This means that if the purchase price of the property intended for its permanent housing is, for example, 3 million. CZK, the property acquisition tax will be paid using a rate of 2 percent. If the purchase price of the property for its own permanent housing is, for example, 6 million. CZK, the property acquisition tax will be paid 2 percent of the 4 million. and 4 % of the value of 2 million. Each buyer pays the tax itself from his share. Thus, if, for example, two natural persons fulfilling the conditions will buy property for 8 million. CZK and each will have a co-ownership share of 50 per cent, no tax will be paid. Or they'll pay a reduced tax. Similarly, if the property is acquired by a spouse fulfilling the conditions in the joint property of the spouses, the value of the reduced tax rate is set at 8 million. Kč. This provision supports the regulation's common and family life. The condition for applying the reduced tax rate is that the buyer will already have registered a permanent residence in the property at the end of the filing period and payment of the property acquisition tax, which will be accompanied by a return on the acquisition of the property. In the case of a citizen of another Member State of the European Union or of a common European Economic Area, the place shall be accompanied by a return on the acquisition of the property by proof of the place of residence declared in the property in question. This proposal also provides for Section 7. A fundamental change in the exemption of new buildings is that the exemption will be able to be used again by purchasers - natural persons - only citizens of the EU and the European Economic Area. From the available information, we know what has already been mentioned here. So that's the other part. In addition, I would like to present a second amendment, which is significantly simpler. As of 1 November 2016, the amendment to the Real Estate Acquisition Tax Act entered into force. This arrangement also provided that the real estate acquisition tax was newly paid only by the buyer of the property. According to the legislation applicable until 31 October 2016, the tax was normally paid by the seller, and the new owner merely guaranteed that the tax actually paid by the seller, although he had no possibility of forcing it to do so. If he failed to fulfil his obligations, the buyer had to pay the tax on the State for him. The real estate acquisition tax shall be payable in the form of an advance paid at the latest on the date of expiry of the deadline for the submission of the real estate acquisition tax return. The tax return on the acquisition of immovable property shall be made by the taxpayer not later than the end of the third calendar month following the calendar month in which the deposit was made in the real estate register. The price of real estate has been rising for a long time, so many buyers will spend all their resources to purchase the property. These buyers then have a problem in the short term to obtain sufficient funds to pay this tax. This may cause unnecessary problems in the context of overpayments and sanctions to people who are otherwise regular taxpayers. This proposal extends the deadline for the submission of a tax return on the acquisition of immovable property by three months. Thanks to this adjustment, buyers will have more time to provide funds to pay their tax liability. The state of change is not deprived of money, only three months will shift the cash flow of the state, which will also settle again. In the first year of introduction it is therefore possible to reduce the collection of this tax by a maximum of 25 per cent. The state will not lose this part, it will only receive it in the following year, in which the selection will be at a standard amount or probably higher, because this relief can help many buyers who can make more transactions from which they will pay tax. The introduction of this change is therefore appropriate to implement now that the economy has a growing tendency. This adjustment is based on the majority of the company. As a result of this adjustment, the State should also reduce the rate of tax defaults and thus the administrative costs associated with the collection of taxes and penalties, if any. I will therefore ask you in the third reading to support these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u13	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the open debate by de facto remark from Mr Munzar. My colleague Martínek will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u14	Yes, thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Martínek through you. He's been explaining the pirát' proposal far and wide. I would like to argue a little bit with one thing that he did not say on the microphone here, but is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the amendment that you consider your proposal more appropriate than abolishing the real estate acquisition tax. I would just like to argue here, if this is really more appropriate, because of course every introduction of any exception will always create certain inequalities. Your proposal is not quite in the wrong direction, my fellow Member Skopeček will also actually come up with a proposal, but I argue with the wording that this is more appropriate. But I want to ask you two examples, because, of course, exceptions make it difficult to assess all life situations, so I want to ask you about your proposal. If you imagine that married couples, for example, are not yet settled by SJM and one of them has to buy real estate, so as I understand your amendment, this does not apply. I'd like to answer that. And the second example is, because you're referring to a permanent residence, it may be that one spouse has to remain resident in the original place for the sake of children because of the schoolhood, so it wouldn't apply according to your proposal. These are two specific examples. I would like to answer that because life really brings far more complex situations than we can come up with amendments here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of the Skopeček will be able to wait. Mr Martínek also reports on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u16	I'm just gonna react briefly. Of course, it is not possible to take all situations by law; in any case, even in these situations, marriage mates may be able to do so, if they agree in any way, so as to reach the reduced rate. When they sell the property first, there will be settlement, or one will sell the property to another and will, of course, be dealt with after the purchase. I'm sure there are options. Of course, it would be great to take all the situations that may arise, but I suppose that is not possible in our case, of course, but there is a possibility that they can get to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Jan Skopeček's speech, which is the last one to be entered in the general debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u18	Thank you for the floor. In the introduction, I would like to support the proposal of the Civil Democratic Party to abolish the real estate tax. There are several reasons. On the one hand, I think that we would contribute to clarifying our very complex tax system. When different international institutions assess the tax system, its complexity is illustrated by the fact that we have many types of taxes. It is the property acquisition tax or the road tax that is an example of a tax that does not mean a dominant income for the state budget. As has already been said here, it is up to one percent of the total revenue. [[15.40 hours]] So, on the one hand, we would not have damaged the state in quotation marks in any way when it comes to the dramatic failure to collect the property acquisition tax, and at the same time, we would have eliminated one excess tax, and what is more, we would have saved a number of Financial Administration officials who have to manage the tax today, and the Minister could immediately release the first civil servants he promises now, so it would have room in the Financial Administration for the very officials who are taking care of the real estate tax today. Because, as I say, the cost of managing this tax versus revenue, the collection into the state budget also for this tax is not a very positive ratio. That is one reason why I strongly support that we do not go by way of exceptions, but abolish the property acquisition tax itself. The second reason, of course, is the situation in the real estate market. We probably agree that we will not find another asset or another price index that would grow so dramatically in recent years and have really had substantial and significant impacts on society. Today, getting your own housing is infinitely worse because of the situation on the real estate market than it was a few years ago. For a number of relatively large groups of our fellow citizens, property housing simply becomes unavailable because of the way the real estate market develops. The market is developing badly, virtually. prices are rising dramatically because demand is a dramatic overhang over supply. I think that's pretty clear. In the Czech Republic there is simply little construction. This is due, on the one hand, to the very complex building management, in whose complexity we are really moving on the tip of developed countries and we are at the level of developing countries. We know that this is a long-term problem, and yet we have not been able to do anything about it. Of course, a number of regulations at the local level also contribute to this, where different activist groups simply block any construction rather than building it. Adding a relatively cheap price of money to this means very low interest rates, by which the Czech National Bank, but also banks in the world have cheaper money in recent years on the basis of the crisis, of course, has motivated our fellow citizens to take more mortgages, and when we calculate that property prices are rising and the price of money is falling, the volume of mortgages is increasing, so it is clear that it must have created a situation that leads to a significant increase in real estate prices, which means that today, rather, investors who buy a third, fourth property can afford a new property, because they have it. Not that they could afford a new property by representatives of some middle class and starting families. So, of course, the excess demand over supply is a long-term problem. We can't solve that from the table. This has to be dramatically simplified by the construction process. Urban planning must be dramatically liberalized. Something must also happen with monetary policy, which is supposed to get into a normal situation over time. But we don't have any tools to deal with this situation immediately. Therefore, I think that it is a very fast and partial solution, a partial aid which, of course, will not solve the structural problem of property shortages and their high prices, so at least in part we can help those less wealthy, middle-class representatives, to get their own housing when at least they stand in such a situation, at such prices, at least they will forgive those who buy them, the tax they are collecting today. And as has been said repeatedly here, it is multiple taxation, because those who bought real estate had to make money on it first and paid income tax. The property had to stand up, so taxes for building materials were paid, etc. etc. The state has already touched on the money from the property construction several times and wants to touch it unnecessarily even from the title of the property acquisition tax, which continues to cost already dramatically expensive properties in the Czech Republic. So I strongly appeal to the Chamber of Deputies to support this proposal. In a way, it is a social measure designed to at least partially help people get access to property housing, which, in my view, cultivates ownership housing at all as such, cultivates the relationship between man and property and what surrounds him. Like I said before, I don't like exceptions in the law either. I would also very much like the whole property acquisition tax to be abolished as such. We've tried several times. This is another attempt. I believe we may find more votes for you now. However, for the record, even if I did not convince you with my output now, I would like to read it - in a detailed debate, I will sign up for the amendment that I have made and which would forgive the real estate acquisition tax at least to those people who buy the property for the first time. This means that it would affect especially young families and young couples who buy the first real estate, and each crown that they save during this purchase is of course absolutely important to them and will lead to whether they can afford ownership housing at all, or will contribute to saving at least some of the furnishings of the apartment in addition to the dramatic price of the real estate we have today. So I'm coming up with an amendment that exempts people from the real estate tax from having first ownership housing... the first ownership of the property intended for housing. I think it's, even if it's an exception to the law, so I think we're going to help a large group of especially young couples and young families that we're going to motivate and allow them to get their first house in life or their first apartment. So let me at least ask you to support this amendment of mine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u19	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. I still have an application for a factual remark from Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u20	Thank you. I still want to respond to Mr Martínek, who here responded with my first point of fact. I'm glad we agreed that by law we can't describe every situation in life. That's why I'm going back to why I got off here. Because you actually wrote that it seemed more appropriate to you, such an exception than a simple cancellation from the acquisition of the property. I'm glad we agree that we can't describe everything by law. So I see it, this proposal of yours, more like a partial step, but I consider it more appropriate to withdraw from the acquisition of the property, because we really cannot describe everything by the exceptions, and then we will be in the situation that Mr Rais is dealing with here that something has not been explicitly written, so it must be corrected and supplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Martínek's point of view. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u22	I certainly have nothing against cancellation, but if the regulatory element is ensured from the macroeconomic point of view, as I said, because I am really afraid that investors, speculators will start shopping bigger and de facto for people will then increase the price of real estate even more, even if no tax will then be paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u23	Thank you. Another colleague, Munzar, with a point of fact. Maybe I can... Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u24	I think that the abolition of property tax is precisely a measure for normal people, not for investors, because investors usually have 4 percent. It's not such a big deal for them sometimes. The question is, do they get any income from any rents and their investments, any return, if they're over ten years old, under ten years old? How's it gonna work out for them? But I think it's the real estate tax that's not a regulation against investors, but it's a barrier to normal people to get their own property.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm asking if there's anyone else for the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. We can proceed to the debate in detail, however, unless the representatives of the appellants and the rapporteur are interested in the final word after the general debate. Mr Rais has not yet submitted his final statement, nor has the rapporteur. So we can start the debate in detail and there is a colleague, Munzar, first registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u26	Thank you. As I have announced in the general debate, I am signing up in detail to the amendment, which is mentioned under number 1655 to this House press. It is actually a variant proposal where variant 1 is that the legal measure is directly repealed, which means that the real estate acquisition tax is abolished. In the event that it does not receive the support of the Chamber of Deputies, option 2 is that four percent are replaced by one percent. In case it doesn't even get the support of our House of Honor, four are replaced by two. And at least there's a small reduction in variant 4, a reduction from four percent to three, and of course we're going to promote variant number one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u27	Thank you. We are now continuing to speak in a detailed debate by Mr Tomáš Martínek, a colleague of Skopeček will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, House document number 2022, and also for my second amendment, which is prepared in cooperation with Radek Holomčík, in the House document 2062. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Skopeček, in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u30	Thank you very much. As I have announced in the general debate, I would like to sign up for an amendment under number 2212 which is exempt from the real estate acquisition tax from the acquisition of title to residential immovable property when the rightholder acquires ownership of immovable property for the first time in his life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-005-021.u31	Thank you and I ask who else to discuss in detail. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Your colleague, Rais? It's not like that. Neither does the rapporteur. There was no motion for a vote at second reading, so I can end the second reading. Thank you, draftsman's representatives, thank you, rapporteur, end of item 21. We'll continue with point 97. It's about
