ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u1	108. The proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended /House print 401/ - first reading You have received the Government's position as the Parliamentary Press 401/1 and I will ask all those who voted for the previous press and want to address other topics to address them in the foyer, so that there is peace here in the Chamber, please. I prosit that Mr Jan Hrnčíř present the proposal for the appellants. And I'll give you my word when it's quiet in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. [[President: It is Mr Spaniard. I'm sorry. Mr. Spaniard.]] I'm sorry. I'm Mr. Španěl. Mr. Hrnčíř is extraordinarily outside the House, so I'm gonna propose a bill amendment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u3	I'm sorry I didn't notice that, Mr. Ambassador. Anyway, it's not quiet here yet, and I'd really like to ask those who don't want to discuss this press or want to deal with something important, so let them deal with it in the lobby. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon again, or maybe early evening. I would like to present to you the proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others for the amendment to Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code. The proposed regulation aims to strengthen the debtor's position in the context of an undertaking so that, even without active action, it can preferably meet the principal of the debt. We come from a situation where, in particular, consumer credit, such strengthening of the debtor's legal position is appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u5	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'm sitting up here and I can't hear what you're saying. It means, it's not your fault, it's a problem in the House... And now I think the noise level is reasonable, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u6	The proposed legislation changes the order of performance of the debt to the principal first. This amendment may in some cases confer an advantage on the debtor, in particular in conjunction with paragraph 2, which prohibits interest interest. Basically, this is about not charging interest on late payments. So that would be all for the bill presentation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u7	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Jan Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u8	Thank you. Serious Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the House Press, which is an amendment to the Civil Code. The SPD club submitted this proposal this February. An opinion has been drawn up on its compatibility with EU law, which states that it is compatible. In March, the Government issued an opinion expressing its opposition. What is this proposal about? It is an amendment to Section 1932 of the Civil Code, which states in the present version that if the debtor is to pay the principal, interest and costs associated with the application of the claim, the performance is to be counted first on the costs already determined, then on interest on late payment, then on interest and finally on the principal, unless the debtor has a different will in the performance. This is the current wording of the Act. In the second paragraph, and it must also be supplemented because it is changing, it is said that if the debtor determines that he is first carrying out on the principal, both costs and interest shall be charged. In other words, the current bill gives the debtor the opportunity to determine the order of repayment that when instalments come, whether they are primarily based on accessories, whether it is defined by the wider development or the principal. The proposal before us turns it into saying that it primarily counts on the principal. Only when the principal is paid off will the interest be paid. The application therefore reads in Section 1932 that, if the debtor is to pay the principal, the interest and the costs associated with the application of the claim, the transaction shall be credited first to the principal, then to the costs already determined, then to the interest on late payment and, finally, to interest, unless the debtor exercises a different will in the performance, that remains, and in paragraph 1 of the opening decision. 2 then says that the principal and the costs already determined shall be remunerated and the interest on late payments shall not be paid. This, too, is the practice that is happening that interest will also be paid. The aim, as they define it in the explanatory memorandum, is to strengthen the debtor's position, especially in consumer relations, and to say that there is a situation where the interest rate itself is so great that the repayment of the debtor is not enough for interest, which means that it will never be able to repay the principal, and in a way it keeps sending payments without ever having a chance to repay its debt. That is why it comes with this solution and with this proposal. The Government expressed its opposition at its meeting in March, and, as I mentioned briefly, but I will now add this to it, gave a disagreeable opinion on it, stating the reasons on the four following points. [[17.50 hours]] First, the Government considers that the proposed amendment to Section 1932 of the Civil Code is not necessary or appropriate. The Government states that the regulation of the law, as proposed in this draft amendment to the Civil Code, is very unusual in comparison with the regulations of other European countries and could cause problems in normal economic life when the government complements the fact that the proposed legislation could distort some existing financial products such as for example. Transfer credits in construction savings, reverse mortgages or long-term loans repaid at the end of maturity e.g. selling real estate. Furthermore, the government does not consider it correct to exclude the interest rate of the debt only for a formal reason, when the debtor, even without the creditor's consent, announced that the transaction is made to the principal and determined costs and not to other accessories. It argues that if the debtor paid the entire principal and determined costs, the second paragraph of that paragraph would exclude further interest. From an economic point of view, it is irrelevant whether the remaining part of the debt constitutes a principal or an accessory, and the Government notes that, in its view, the amendment to Section 1932/2 of the Civil Code so far means that it says that if the debtor determines that it meets the principal first, both costs and interest are charged, it defines it as the fairer one. Again, the government repeats in point three that it considers the regulation that is in the present law to be standard and consistent with European trends. Furthermore, it notes that already in the insolvency law, in § 165 para. 4 that, unless otherwise specified, the performance granted to the creditor after the bankruptcy decision in accordance with the insolvency law to satisfy his claim shall be counted first on the principal, then on interest, then on interest on late payment and finally on the costs associated with the application of the claim. According to the amendment to the insolvency law which we discussed this year, I think it was in January, at the latest in February, and they approved it, a rule was introduced into the insolvency law which says that if the solution to the debtor's insolvency is debt relief, interest, interest on late payment and any contractual penalty which exceeds the original principal, it is up to the subordinated claim that they are paid only after the full payment of all claims. In other words, there is a limit to making it sometimes a senselessly huge interest rate doesn't mean that it still pays interest, but if, when interest is paid up to the original principal, then further payments go only when all other principals and debts are paid. At the same time, the Government does not agree with the wording of the transitional provision, which it considers confusing and inconsistent with the standard legislative technique, and of which it introduces a dissenting opinion on this draft law. That's all for the rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u9	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of Vice-President Okamura, then President Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u10	Dear ladies and gentlemen, helping people in debt traps and executions, ending usury practices, changing the system around executions and nationalisation of executors are one of the crucial program points of the SPD movement. The amendment to the law presented by the SPD today proposes in its own way to change the order of debt repayment unprecedentedly, by first repaying the debt itself, i.e. the so-called. the principal and only then the various costs, such as judgments, fees to the executor or interest. At the same time, we also propose to abolish interest rates, because we consider this to be an absolutely immoral situation, which has been set by the political parties so far, and to this day it is tolerated. The position of the government, YES, ČSSD and KSČM, which gave us a negative opinion on our proposal, is shocking in this regard. That means they don't want to help people in debt traps at all. That's what we need to say here, and I'm curious to see how the vote will turn out at first reading. In fact, I never in my life would have thought that in practice it could be any different. It's not like the first to pay off the principal and then the fees. And I never thought anyone could impose and impose interest rates and tolerate this monstrous practice for years. The reason most politicians don't care about solving this problem is because few of them will experience the essence and horror of debt traps that crush our fellow citizens. Usually, media and pseudo-professionals create the impression that debt traps cause people to borrow endlessly and solve old loans with loans, etc. Well, he, if you're owed, hardly anyone lends you anything. A loan shark and a small sum, tops. What is worth a large part of the outstanding debts are extreme judgments, fees and interest on interest. The people in the debt trap must first pay the fees, and even if they pay honestly for a number of years, their debt will not go down. On the contrary, it is usually still growing, because payments are usually sufficient only for the fees of the bailiffs and, in a better case, for interest and interest on interest. Although the new Civil Code allows for a certain degree of active choice in the order of repayment, the problem is that the vast majority of debtors do not know. I can state the specific case we're dealing with. It's Mrs. Zuzana z Březová nad Svitava. For the past ten years, they've been pulling over CZK 10,000 out of their ex-husband's bailout salary. Ex-husband doesn't pay anything. Mrs. Zuzana has paid over CZK 1.5 million in the last 11 years - in 11 years! - but a debt of 480 thousand. The crown still remains. He works properly with the Czech Railways. He feeds his family, but he's had only 7,000 crowns a month out of his salary for over ten years. She had already repaid her husband's debt, which she had not caused herself, three times in essence, because the debt was only CZK 480,000. So she's already paid it back three times! But if something doesn't change, she'll be paying until she's dead, and her debt will never end, because she'll never get to pay the principal herself. Such cases are ten-- maybe hundreds of thousands. They are a demonstration of the absolute immorality of the system in the Czech Republic, which has been set up by the existing government parties, and so do the governments. And I'm just going to name it, that last term was ruled by the Yes, the ČSSD and the KDU-ČSL movement. And before that, especially the TOP 09 and the ODS. Not only are politicians to blame, who approved an extremely immoral execution order and created private executors, started a business with debts, but, of course, also justice and courts, because a number of debts with loan shark interest and fines should have been thrown off the table. Instead, the judges approve the execution orders without any consideration. I have information that for example. The executor from Klatovy has a net monthly income of about a million crowns. Executor Vrána of Přerov, as we know, had a turnover even in billions of crowns and profits in the order of hundreds of millions per year. Private executives in the whole, in the whole Republic, certainly have at least a billion-dollar profit combined. And this money is ripped out by the poorest and most defenseless. As is known, the SPD also promotes the nationalisation of executors. [[18.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to support the SPD proposal, which would at least partially mitigate the injustices, plus, in terms of debts, it will also help creditors, because people have been paying the fees to bailouts for years, but the creditor will actually get nothing until the costs of execution are paid. Our proposal, a proposal from the SPD pen, in particular in Section 1932 in para. 1 cuts the current order of repayment, which says that the money goes first to the costs already determined, then to interest on late payments, then to interest and finally to the principal. And we are replacing that sentence by saying that money goes first to the principal, then to the costs already determined, then to interest on late payments and finally to interest. In Section 1932 we also add paragraph 2, which reads: The security and the costs already determined are remunerated. Interest and interest on late payments shall not be paid. That's an important sentence. So these two sentences, which sound so simple, can fundamentally change, will fundamentally change - if you help us, Members of the other parties - and will help hundreds of thousands of people in the debt traps we have in the Czech Republic. Of course, hand in hand with this SPD also proposes termination with usury. We've been sitting here for x-months now on our bill to put an annual interest rate on costs, the so-called RPSN, to prevent loan-lending. By the way, the interest ceiling on loans - this law applies in most countries of the European Union. And here the government coalition of the ANO, CSSD and KDU-ČSL movement rejected it to me last election period, this law, so we submitted it again. These parties are on the side of loan sharks. Apparently, they are satisfied for some reason that hundreds of thousands of people are in debt traps, and they want more and more to get into them. And this is a big economic problem for the Czech Republic, as well as a big social problem. So I wanted to ask you, while I'm talking about it, also, the esteemed government coalition of the ANO, the CSSD and the KSČM movement, to finally release you to the first (?) reading and adopting our bill to cover interest on loans, as is the case in most countries of the European Union. The SPD doesn't suggest anything out of the ordinary. On the contrary, we propose standard proposals, common in a civilized world. Again, I wonder why and for what reason the other parties are defending these proposals. So either they're dealt with loan sharks and executors or different insolvency administrators, or you just don't care. One or the other. And, of course, our third proposal, by the way, is that we want to nationalize the bailiffs. However, the problem is that we have the proposal written in rough terms, but it is such a legislatively complex proposal that it is necessary for the cooperation of the Ministry and other authorities to put the proposal together correctly in a legislative manner, because we are an opposition party. However, government parties do not want to cooperate. They don't want to help us become executors. Again, we can see how the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement stands up to this problem, but the same system was supported by KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09 in the last parliamentary term. Of course, they were also in government, and they did nothing about the system. Back to our proposal, which we are discussing here. The present provision of Section 1932 provides, in the same way as the previous legislation, that, in the case of the performance of a cash debt which does not cover the entire debt, the performance shall begin first on its accessories and then on the principal. However, the current provision of the new Civil Code is more detailed and also sets the order of performance for each type of performance. The new Civil Code states here in paragraph 1 that the performance will first be based on the already determined costs associated with the application of the claim, then on interest on late payment and then on interest. The costs already determined in connection with the application of the claim shall be the most typically declared by the Court of Justice. The first paragraph states, however, that the debtor may show a different will in the performance. Typically, the debtor could determine that the amount it is carrying is to be used on the principal. By this particular determination, the debtor would improve its position under the undertaking, unless, of course, the second paragraph would relate to that advantage. And I'm talking about it here on purpose, so that one of the opponents of our proposal doesn't stand up here and say it's already out there. It's not there, and it's not so much that people in debt traps can use it. That's why we're presenting the novel. Our proposed paragraph 2 states that the right to such accessories from the accessories of the creditor will arise directly from the law, i.e. even without prior arrangement with the debtor - and that is the point. That's the important moment. The proposed regulation from the SPD, the aim of our amendment, is to strengthen the debtor's position in the context of the commitment relationship so that even without active action, he can preferably meet the principal of the debt, and this is an important moment. We come from a situation where, in particular, consumer matters, such strengthening of the debtor's legal position as well as creditors is appropriate. Once again, I stress that hundreds of thousands of people and their families, when I put family members into this, it is over a million people who face debt traps, and it is a big social and social problem. These people are desperate, often working, and the state is not able to relieve them and meet them so that they can normally be included in the normal social life. So the benefit of our proposed change is the actual fulfilment of the second paragraph, which states that only the already determined costs and interest payments on interest on late payments and excluding interest are due from the remaining accessories, because we in the SPD consider interest on interest to be inappropriate and immoral. It's really a monstrous thing that other parties here have adopted into the law. And we want to change it, we want to cancel it. The current legislation is not logical when it gives the debtor the option of choice, but at the same time the only logical choice, i.e. advantageous for the debtor, sanctiones all the components of the accessories. What is the point of such a provision is not clear unless, therefore, the intention is not to draw as much money out of people as possible. And I think that was the intention of the legislators who accepted it back then. Perhaps one of you might argue that in Europe such an adjustment to the order of repayment is not usual. Another rather shocking finding can be added to this. On the contrary, nowhere in Europe or anywhere in the world in the countries we have researched information, there are no such outrageous fees to bailouts and other debt repayment costs as in the Czech Republic. That's reality. That's it. The costs of execution are ten to one hundred times in the Czech Republic compared to other countries. And again, we want to turn it into an SPD, but we need the help of the other political parties, because we don't have a majority here. Not to mention that the Czech state also takes 21 percent of its VAT from those desperate people in debt traps, thereby increasing people's costs by one fifth. I have already repeatedly asked Prime Minister Babiš to make an exception in this regard and not to pay 21 percent of VAT on execution. He told me he didn't want to do it, that it just couldn't be done, that he wasn't interested in at least a fifth to cut people's debt traps. I told him myself. I told him last spring. Unfortunately, the YES movement is not interested and neither is the government. So perhaps you will at least support our proposal for our bill to go to second reading, and then we will talk about some compromises. We think our proposal is, of course, optimal, but if anybody sees it differently, I hope you'll move on and then we'll have fun, but so we can really help those people in debt traps. Of course, people who have insurance benefits are still receiving penalty payments and fines from the VZP, that is, from the health insurance company and the district social security administration. And so state institutions throw citizens into even greater debt instead of being able to accommodate them. It's also a crazy condition. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention, and I ask you once again to support our proposal and release for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u11	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next person in the order by which Mr. Ondřej Veselý's de facto remark is, I'll read the note. Mr Václav Votava apologizes today from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Jan Chvojka from today's meeting from 17.45 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mrs Dana Balcarová from 18.00 to the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna surprise SPD colleagues today. I'm going to rise above the raids that go against the ČSSD, and I'm going to deal with the actual thing. I must say, in this case, in general, I agree with the idea that is here. I, too, find it horrible - and I am happy to support proposals that will go in the right direction - that those people who have something to pay back will never actually get paid back. And it's actually kind of a paying perpetuum mobile. Because of rising interest rates, and that's the principle you're putting forward, they just never get to pay off the principal and actually pay back until death. That's awful, I agree. Let's forget about debt, that's another model, and let's get to your thing. I think the idea is right, but I'm not sure about the implementation. I think what you want should be directed into execution and enforcement. I don't think the Civil Code is entirely appropriate. Because if I take a general example of a mortgage. If any of you didn't have a mortgage, I had it, so there's some interest-rate ratio set up for you and the principal, you're pre-arranged. Of course, it's not a perpetuum mobile. You know what amount you're finally supposed to pay, and so on. If we're talking about the principle that you're promoting, it's about execution or enforcement, so I think we're gonna get to the common idea. Please try to think about it, and then the model would be acceptable to me. I can't imagine that with the Civil Code. However, the principle seems good to me. In this I agree with you that it is not possible for some debtors to never, even if they pay back honestly, get to pay off the total debt simply because the interest increases faster than they simply pay back, because they simply are unable to pay back more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank you for the factual point of fact. But I'd like to respond to that here. He's always here, like, someone who's a lawyer and all that, like, says that it's legal and that way, and they're looking for some arguments to reject it or why not vote for it. I know that Mr Veselý here, through Mr President, is a lawyer. But I wanted to assure you that we consulted several law firms, not one. And even some executors. This means that our proposal - I know that legal science is that every lawyer can have different opinions and it is a hundred opinions. But I want to make sure, but quite factually, that they have been consulted several times. It is also consulted with the Parliamentary Institute, it is examined even. This means that we have been consulted several times from all sides, that from a legal point of view, there is definitely a way into this. However, I do not question because I myself am not a lawyer, that there may be another way. But I wanted to point out that this is definitely one of the right ways to - or I to be above it, that it is one of the right ways to need it, but it is definitely the right way to do it. That several law firms, plus the Parliamentary Institute, have checked it out for us, and we've consulted with the bailiffs who wanted to talk about this. That means it's double-checked that it's a really professionally correct path. Maybe there's another one. I can't tell now because I'm not a lawyer myself. Well, that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u15	Thank you for keeping time and with priority rights, President Výborný. Vice-President Filip will prepare himself with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would only like to modify the vote number 992 for the House press 375, which was the amendment of the ODS's administrative order. I'm high for voting for rejection, and I voted no. They do not question the vote. That's one thing. And let me just make a quick comment on the proposal that the SPD is making here. The proposal is certainly going in the right direction. Because the things that are happening here in the framework of executions are clearly wrong and immoral. We've agreed to this for a long time. There's got to be something to do with it. But I'm here to join what my honored colleague Veselý said. It really needs to be dealt with conceptually and not by this non-conceptional intervention in the Civil Code. That's the whole problem. Of course, right now, and I'm just reminding you, we have a complex amendment to the order of execution that's being discussed here. The government is also preparing this solution. I would really advocate that this issue be dealt with legally as it should be, so that we do not accept pasquila unnecessarily here. But I say we agree on which direction we are going, and we want to deal with this issue quickly. Just as we want to address the issue of executions in children very quickly. I believe there'll be a complete match here. Just as we will be dealing with executions for those who receive old-age pensions and so on. I think we're in agreement here across the MPs. But this solution, which is here, we really do not consider it entirely conceptual. That is why I would recommend either redoing it, or let's do the same thing, which also makes legal sense and has a head and a heel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u17	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Spaniard. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond through Mr President to Mr Výborný. It may be possible to create a conceptual and more extensive solution. I'd just like to say that for a long time, I thought that every debtor was the architect of his happiness or his misfortune. It's not like that. There's a lot of debtors who fall into this with all sorts of scams. You'd be surprised how bad guys we thought we'd already turned, transformed, and done things a whole different way. And he targets the weakest. I think we owe these people a lot at all. And what's wrong with just avoiding interest rates? I don't understand. Please think about the fact that not everyone is so good. That after the 1989 revolution, people fell into a new age in a way, let's say, more natural, capitalist, and some simply couldn't adapt, were trusting, were robbed, and are in difficult life situations today. Let us at least help them with small things before we find a better global solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u19	Thank you. At this moment, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I must say that I agree with my colleague Veselý, but on the other hand, let us discuss when we will be dealing with this comprehensively. Whether it is the will either to find a consensus across the political spectrum on when the execution will finally become a priority of the Chamber of Deputies, or whether the government will have so much time and will to submit a change to the executor and execution law. I have tried this several times, and I have submitted the last broad amendment already during the parliamentary period 2010 to 2013. It was the House Press 610, there were 56 amendments and it was the most comprehensive amendment ever tabled to this Chamber of Deputies. I failed because at that time the will of the right-wing coalition of Petr Nečas and Miroslav Kalousek was not interested in protecting people at all and took execution as an object of business that is advantageous, especially for those bailouts, even though execution is the exercise of state power. It seemed logical to me, therefore, that we should not privatise state power and that it should be taken care of by state employees and that they should proceed in favour of the creditor, but with the protection of the debtor's rights. Then there could be no such executions as were read or read here on other occasions. [[18.20 hours]] For example, there is no objection - that is to say, a valid objection - to the particular executor who gets the execution case. This must be dealt with in a way that can be dealt with by a court to which we can turn, because no one can be taken away from its legal judge. And I can, of course, blame the legal processing of the proposal quite effectively, but I have no intention of doing so. I don't intend to, because we can say that we're going to go the way that this is going to go back to the plaintiffs, and we're going to say yes, it's not part of the Civil Code, it's part of the executor law - which I consider more correct. But we have a proposal here that is not legally impossible. Remember, when the tax payer changed only during the purchase contract of the property transfer tax, when it was clear that the original concept that was in force under Civil Code 40/1994 Coll., after its amendments, so that whoever received the money had the money to pay the tax, and here the tax was paid - of course it was reflected in the price, it was projected to others today - and the legal guarantor was the other one when it was, for example, privatization of state property, because there the buyer and the seller were also obvious. [[Nesroz.]] And at this point, we suddenly have a solution for not putting it in the Civil Code. I think that it is possible that this provision of the most general legislation, i.e. the Civil Code - and it is the most general legislation, so it was designed. I didn't vote for him because I consider it a construction that doesn't, in a way, fully correspond to contemporary social relations, it's more like a civil code that skipped a few periods back to the concept that was developed here at the beginning of the 19th century in 1811, and we have, I think, been over that time several times. The attempts at the amendment were more likely to end when we're arguing about trust funds today. It's true. That's because we implanted long-standing legal institutes in the new Civil Code that prove inappropriate for material law at the time of the 21st century. But, on the other hand, why not lay down the most general legislation, the Civil Code, what is the priority of the repayment? Maybe it's construction. I even think it corresponds to the social need we have here today, and we can commit not only to the bailiffs, we can commit even those who find that right, and in that case we will be clear that the judge cannot proceed differently, because in the most general regulation, he will be bound to the extent that even the individual loan agreements will be constructed. I can blame a lot of things, but on the other hand, I don't blame the construction itself, and I suppose we could just let the law go at first reading, hold a seminar, and then we can figure out which way to go. Perhaps then colleagues will withdraw it, because, for example, the government will by then submit some more complex amendment to which we can comment, yes, even from the point of view that this bill cannot be addressed, because it is not designed. He expresses a very narrow part of what happens between creditors and debtors, and in my opinion, he regulates it in a quite understandable way. That's also the thing where we have to tell ourselves, in that legal consciousness, if we are going in a way that is acceptable, and that knowledge of law is also given by how much people accept that this is the right thing to do. We often adopt a standard here, which raises the awareness of the traditional joke, especially in our legal community, that - please do not seek justice, these are two very different categories. So I'm in favour of letting go of the first reading. I am not satisfied with the standard, I cannot say that I am completely resolved that the law should apply as it is written, but I think it is still time for us to talk about it in committees or seminars, or at second reading, to make amendments that would lead to the objective pursued, because it pursues some objective. This means correcting the most disgusting - forgive me - attempts to exploit privatized state power for the benefit of those who have tried to take it for themselves and who are indifferent to the interest of the creditor, they are indifferent to the debtor, but their profit is priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u21	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Grospič with a factual remark, I shall read the apologies. Mr Jan Birke apologizes for today's meeting from 18.00 to the end of the day for working reasons, Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík today from 18.00 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Jan Bauer from 18.00 to the end of the day and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček from 18.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Grospič has the floor and his two minutes of factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u22	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I am also aware that the Government has expressed a disagreeable opinion on the draft law, although it generally agrees to strengthen the position of debtors in commitment relations, and considers that the new regulation is neither necessary nor appropriate. The government considers that it could disrupt some of the existing functional products. In the Government's view, the current regulation is also fairer and considered standard. However, I would also like to say here that the Government's position on this can be pointed out from my point of view that the insolvency law to which it refers does not address the problem at all. It only addresses the outcome, whereas the proposal that we are discussing here now is an effort to address the result. This is important to me, as well as it cannot be clearly identified with the Government's view that the proposed regulation does not address the link with the provisions of Section 1806 of the Civil Code, which allows interest on interest to be negotiated. The rule that it has the right to interest on interest arises whenever it applies only to claims of a liability of a nature, even if it is an effective and direct liability, a primary act, not a breach of the contract, and always and ever since the claim was applied to the court. From this point of view, I therefore think that this proposal has, of course, a number of shortcomings and is a question of its further development. But I think that a helpful step in relation to debtors and strengthening the position of debtors and solving the problem would be the release of this law until further reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u23	Thank you for keeping time. We are going back to the general debate, where Mr Dominik Feri is first in line, and Mrs Jarošová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow ministers, Vice-President Okamura spoke earlier than ever until I said suspiciously long, but never mind, I finally got there. First, a brief response to what Vice-President Filip mentioned. The fact that our civil, valid and effective civil code returns in some parts of it and in some of its principles to the general Civil Code of 1811, is undoubtedly true, but that does not mean that it would be the principles that are overcome because, for example, in Austria, it is still true in Liechtenstein, and half of those provisions have not been amended in Austria. And the other thing is that we are inspired or inspired by the most modern codes currently in force in the world. So it's a complete introduction. [[18.30 hours]] What Mr Okamura mentioned here was a demonstration of rhetorical political exercise. I'm sure it's necessary, but it's a matter of fact wrong. So Vice-President Okamura here quoted something about judgments, a judgment decree that has been abolished since 2013 by the founding of the Constitutional Court, the plenary of the Constitutional Court. Totally out of it. He mentioned that executors have a million. That's how nice it is in the debate. A million. The bailiff takes a million a month. But let's ask those executors at the small offices how much they're taking. After all, they fight very often for a bare living, some months of loss, and they can only dream of a million. At the same time, Vice-President Okamura mentioned something on which I think the whole proposal is built. Because he started confusing the principal for the debt in that speech. He said the debtor would pay the creditor back the debt, what he borrowed from him. But what he borrowed from him isn't just the debt, we don't borrow very often in the context of some business-law relationship or consumer relations for a good word, when you don't have to pay any interest. You're just paying the money in some way. The debt isn't just the principal. That's what we need to separate. So are the interest. But now let's move on to the proposal itself and why I will propose a return to work at the end of my speech. Vice-President Okamura put this in such a very strange dichotomy. He said that we either don't want to solve this problem because we don't care, or that we're agreed with the bailiffs. And I'd take the liberty of bringing another aspect into it. Perhaps we personally will not support the proposal in this form because it is simply very poorly handled by legislation. And I would like to mention some very controversial points. Well, do we really know what this proposal will bring? Do you know that, colleagues from the SPD through the President? Do you know what all this applies to? You're talking about consumers here, but here it applies to all the money debts. This also applies to commercial companies. This applies not only to liability debts but also to debts for other legal reasons. That means, I don't think you have any idea what this proposal will all be about. The very important thing that unfortunately did not come out of the mouth of the petitioners in this hearing is that if it is paid out of law first and executed on the principal, the principal is reduced as such, the interest is reduced, which will be a significant change, which the creditors did not count on and will probably not count on and which is mainly not calculated. Because you can't just say it - let's put the principal before interest. This will have tax implications - where is there any tax analysis? It's a parliamentary proposal, there may not be a RIA, but there will certainly be tax implications. It will have implications from the point of view of, say, some normal economic relations, i.e. what impact it will have on creditors, what impact it will have on debtors, and what impact it will have on the accounts, because banks report otherwise both the principal and the interest. There's not a word about it in the explanatory statement, not a comma. The design was written with a hot needle. When we were told that we were not interested in this problem or that we were agreed, the rapporteur mentioned it very honestly and the government mentioned that we had adopted some changes that would really help debtors. That means, if we're talking about real helping those over-indebted, for example. The lady mentioned here by Vice-President Okamura, the way out of the debt trap when she is wearing multiple executions, is not that we change one substantive provision in the Civil Code, but it is that the lady enters into debt. And now it will be able, because it will no longer have to satisfy 30% of the claims of selfless (?) creditors, but only what I pay the insolvency administrator, that's the thousand-coron and the thousand-coron. We accepted that. If there's a case of a child debtor who's having an execution, there's already a proposal that we're going to be doing now in the subcommittee. We're going to discuss an amendment to the insolvency law that makes it easier to de-debt for children. Another example. As part of the amendment to the insolvency law, we have also classified the interest above the amount of principal in subordinated claims, which are simply not dealt with as part of the normal debt write-off, which is not paid. The man will be in debt without paying what's beyond it. That means, it's definitely not that we don't care. We're dealing with it. But we're dealing with this with specific substantive steps, not some marketing catchphrases. And perhaps other things that can practically help and that we can deal with. This debt may even come to this amount because it simply takes quite a long time to find the procedure. This means that the appellants can certainly focus on the speed of decision-making of the general courts. At the same time, designers can also focus on how the participant actively applies, i.e. the defendant, his procedural defence or instruments which are served on him under the Civil Procedure Code, i.e. I wonder if it's too fictitious to decide. Surrogate delivery. That's something I mentioned when we were talking about those child debtors. The court will send you a simple challenge. At the end, he will add a clause - do you agree to be decided on this matter without a regulation of negotiations? You're not taking over, you're being reported to the reporting room, you're being delivered to a replacement, you're making a decision. Then the creditor has the execution title in his hand, and it's about to go into execution, in execution. That means, these are things we should look at, we could look at. And I do not defend myself at all, however unusual this wording, which the petitioners suggest, is within the framework of continental law, to talk about it. But the crucial thing is that it's something that changes the market itself. This is not just about consumer relations. This does not apply only to consumer credit, however much it can be used. It's just a slash. A very small crest. Thus, a fundamental change is simply conditional on a consistent economic analysis. For this reason, I propose that this proposal be returned to the petitioners for completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u25	Thank you. I've noticed your proposal. With factual remarks, Mr Grospič and Mr Španěl are registered. I'll read an apology. Today, from 18.30 to the end of the meeting, Mr Marek Výborný apologies for the reasons of his work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u26	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, of course, I do not want to be here as a defender of this press and of the bill, because I think that it also needs considerable work to be done on it if it should become part of our current legal order. However, I think that it is clear from this law that, as regards the adjustment of the order in which debt redemption and its accessories are taking place, the proposed text, as I see it from the outset, must be replaced by interest on late interest, so that the text must be replaced. Paragraph 1 of Section 1932 should read that if the debtor is to pay the principal, interest and costs associated with the application of the claim, the performance shall first be credited to the principal, then to the costs already determined, then to the interest and finally to the interest on late payment, unless the debtor expresses another will in the performance. But I think that the proposal put forward simply has its reasons. It is true that, if the debtor's position is strengthened by the fact that there is, in effect, a reduction in the total amount to be paid by the debtor, on the other hand, this may also give rise to an opposite effect in the event of an increase in interest and therefore, ultimately, it will not bring about any strengthening of the debtor's position or legal certainty. So I just wanted so much to mention the line by your means, Mr President, to my previous speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u27	Thank you. The next one, with a factual remark, shall be made by a Member of the Spaniard. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I will also respond by your means to Mr Feri. I will read to him the 1932 paragraph one more time. 2. And I don't think one of us can read: The security and the costs already paid, Mr. Feri. The principal and the costs already determined shall be charged. Interest and interest on late payments will not be paid... Please don't interpret demagogy here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u29	Well, thank you for keeping time. In the general debate, the next one is Mrs Jarošová, and Mr Radek Rozvoral will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only supposed to borrow as long as we know that we are able to pay our commitments. That's a well-known truth. Unfortunately, none of us know what fate will do to him in the future. None of us are included in this room. The debt of the Czech population was CZK 2.27 trillion at the end of last year. Most of these funds include mortgages and loans drawn to finance housing. According to a survey carried out last year, one fifth of the borrowers are left with only the cheapest food and clothing, five percent of the borrowers are left even for that, and 15 percent even said that they don't know exactly how much they owe, at a time when we are experiencing unprecedented economic growth. I'm asking what happens in the event of a recession. Many debtors, due to their over-debt, are caught in a debt trap, from which there is a very difficult way out. Many families are unable to pay in execution, some face several executions at the same time. Debts are supposed to be paid, it's out of the question. On the other hand, however, I know that subsequent charges, such as interest, late payment fines and fines to executioners, often in the final sum, are much higher than the amount due. The executions have become a good business, and it is clear that many of these conditions can also suit. It also shows that the debtors' claims are being traded rapidly and successfully. On the one hand, our concern should be that what has been lent is returned, but under conditions that will not be liquidated and will not plunge debtors into the spiral of debt traps. It is unthinkable for several thousand debts to become a million-dollar debt over the years, which often rob debtors of a roof over their heads. Therefore, we propose that the debtor pay the principal first, then the other claims, and cancel interest on interest. That is what this amendment is supposed to contribute to. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and I beg your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u31	Thank you for your performance. I would like to ask Mr Radek Rozvoral, who is enrolled in the general debate and who is the last registered in writing at the same time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, let me comment on the proposal by the members of the SPD movement of 13 February this year, amending the Civil Code, Act No. 89/2012 Coll., as amended, and consists in the adaptation of § 1932 para. 1 and 2. The proposed amendments to the legislation are conducted with a view to strengthening the legal position of the debtor's position in the context of the commitment relationship. We believe that the proposed legislation will have positive social implications for citizens who have entered into a crisis financial situation, because it will help these people very much if they pay the principal first, then the costs already determined, and only then the interest on principal and costs. Furthermore, this proposal cancels interest payments on interest, as we consider it inappropriate and immoral. This amendment reflects the current situation regarding debt traps, or debt spirals, which expresses a situation where an individual or family is unable to fulfil its obligations to creditors. The result of this situation is sanctions and the debt is increased by periodic penalty payments. Many people deal with this situation by further loan or credit, but in most cases they are unable to repay even these subsequent loans and fall into debt traps. In the event that a person is already in a debt trap, there is nothing left for him to do but to proceed to it by consolidating or dedebting. Consolidation consists in merging all debts of the debtor into one debt for the sake of simplification and clarity, when the debtor's debts are settled by one entity. Debtor or personal bankruptcy is basically a bailout method that was introduced into the Czech legal system by insolvency law No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and ways of solving it. This law regulates the process of enabling debtors to get out of their legal situation when they are no longer able to pay their loans and loans properly and in due time or are clearly unable to do so in the near future. The entire debt relief process is managed by an impartial court, which alone has the power to correct creditors' claims. The debtors then look for different ways to get out of the debt trap. Dozens of companies offer financial consultancy services to debtors, but for which debtors have to pay large amounts without guaranteeing that aid will be successful. In this context, I would like to share several facts and figures published in its statistics by the Czech Executive Chamber for 2018. The number of newly initiated executions in the Czech Republic last year exceeded half a million, exactly 505 120 executions, and although there was a decrease of 106 445 executions, this number is alarming. The total number of people in execution attacks the 900,000 limit, of which nearly half a million people have three or more executions and a little more than 150,000 people have even over ten executions. About half of the executions are up to CZK 10,000. On average, this results in more than five and a half execution procedures per person and the amount recovered exceeds CZK 63 000 in one execution. As far as geographical distribution is concerned, the highest proportion of persons in execution falls within the Czech Republic under the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, where it is around 15 percent. On the contrary, the least obligatory is located in the Zlín Region and the Vysočina Region, where it is around 3%. Finally, I would like to mention that, for people who are caught in a so-called debt trap, paying interest on interest is a powerful demotivating element not only in their current situation, but will also have negative effects on their future. Our SPD movement considers this situation to be highly alarming because these facts are reflected in the formation of the social climate in our Republic. That is why it is our duty to help these people out of their plight. Our SPD movement has within the framework of the package to help these people prepare a law dealing with the nationalisation of executors and the law to abolish usury. Today, we consider the proposed and discussed amendment to the Civil Code, consisting of the amendment of Section 1932 in the first and second paragraphs, as an instrument to help improve the situation of people in debt traps. For this reason, I ask you here to support this bill amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Bělobrádek is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, we have rejected some of the SPD's proposals, their predecessors, because they were simply legislatively total amateur patlanins that would be made by type: if my teeth hurt, we cut off your leg, and that will solve it. I believe that the only solution is to return this standard really to a recast. And maybe it would be good if some of your members instead of pulling money from your side and then building a villa if you paid for it with some proper legislation and really then made standards that would be acceptable. It's also not true that we wouldn't do anything. In the past period, for example, KDU-ČSL Klaška helped in this area and now, as has already been said by Dominik Feri, other things have been said and others are being prepared. These are indeed proposals that you have prepared, which have significant defects, and they really need to be corrected. So it's no effort not to help people because it's a really serious subject, but you have to prepare it properly. So we're definitely ready to get back to work, and if that makes any sense, then help it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u35	Thank you. I will ask the newly-arrived Members to keep their voice down. With priority rights, Vice-President Okamura is registered, we are approaching the end of this point, we will be voting shortly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u36	I would have responded to Mr. Bělobrádek's former KDU-ČSL chairman. I would like to remind you that this year's Sudeton German Landsmanšaft convention, which has Nazi roots, was attended by the Czech Ambassador in Germany and a member of the KDU-ČSL Tomáš Jan Podivínský and also attended by the former Minister of Culture Herman. Mr. Bělobrádek took part in it. Let us remember that the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft is an organization founded by Nazis, fascists and German chauvinists. KDU-ČSL rides to these conventions. I'll be specific. [[18.50 hours]] In 1949, one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, the so-called Eichstätt Advent Declaration, was announced, where, among other things, these requirements appear - I quote: "Our inalienable requirement is the return of our homeland to the linguistic borders of 1937. It is about establishing a sustainable relationship between Germany and its West Slavic neighbours. The readiness of the Čech and Polák to return their homeland to the exiled Němec was also a prerequisite. All these tasks must be addressed only within the framework of the federalist organisation of Europe." This declaration for the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft was signed by KDU-ČSL MPs: former Kameradschaftsbund, member of NSDAP Becher; member of the Henlein movement Brand; SS Sturmbannführer, bearer of the gold party badge NSDAP Brehm. I'm going to continue with the list, and I'm stressing again that they hear it on TV and on social media, and we're going to promote it, and we're going to give it. Participants of these conventions - Mr Bělobrádek for KDU-ČSL, Herman for KDU-ČSL, Ambassador of Podivínský for KDU-ČSL. And every time someone comes out of KDU-ČSL, I take the priority right, I'm gonna read this place for two and a half years. I'll read it on TV. [[The speaker speaks very strongly.]] The same applies, of course, - similarly I have written cases, privatization cases and other cases for ČSSD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u37	Mr Vice-President, I would just like to interrupt and call you to the point, because after all, we are discussing the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u38	I perform with priority rights. Now I'm performing with priority rights. Outside the general debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So further this document was signed by SS Hauptsturmführer, the NSDAP Hergl official, to know at which conventions KDU-ČSL attends. It was also signed by a member of the NSDAP and Nazi journalist Hönig. He was also signed by a Nazi and in 1938 a member of the Sudeton German Freikorps Lemberg. It was also signed by a member of NSDAP, a collaborator of SD Turnwald. It was originally signed by the Social Democrat, for the occupation of the police officer of the unit involved in the executions of Czech patriots in Kobylisy Franzel. I'm just pointing out, you guys go to these conventions. Those conventions are attended by KDU-ČSL politicians. And there was Mrs. Marksová from the CSSD, the secretary. And there was an MP Korte from TOP 09 to talk to each other. [[The speaker speaks very emotionally until the end of his speech.]] Furthermore, this document by Sudeton German Landsmansaft was signed by a fellow Nazi secret service, a senior official of NSDAP Zawadil, former Nazi Schreiber, former Nazi Preissler, a member of the Sudeton German Partei Schütz, Social Democrat Jaksch, Social Democrat Reitzner, spiritual Sladek. And these people are called by the Minister of Culture Herman, a colleague of Mr. Bělobrádek, Bartošek and others, called them dear compatriots. And part of the Sudeton German Landsmansaft is also the organization Witikobund, about which the Czech Ministry of the Interior wrote in its official report that this organization Witikobund - I apologize, I don't speak German, I speak English, Japanese and Czech, so I apologize for the pronunciation - so this organization Witikobund is clearly linked to Sudeton German Landsmansaft, they wrote - and I will quote from the report of the Ministry of the Interior: "Attention also deserves the organization of the Sudeton German Nazis Witikobund, which spreads anti-Czech views in the Landsmansaft environment." You participate in events, and repeatedly, the actions of an organization that spreads anti-Czech views. And the Witikobund program is to atone for alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation and to further eliminate lies about German crimes, including so-called Holocaust culture as an expression of non-German thought. This is attended by KDU-ČSL politicians! And I'll quote it here every time. Every two-and-a-half years till the end of your term, if you and your lies and SPD nonsense go on a microphone. Every time! I'll always quote it! To hear it hundreds of thousands and millions of citizens of the Czech Republic. And if you're gonna go back to reacting to that, once again, when the next meeting starts on Tuesday, I'm gonna go with priority rights, and I'm gonna read this here. And on January 25, 1950, the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft set up a meeting in Detmold, where a second basic statement by the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft was accepted, which once again claimed legal claim to the homeland and to reclaim the homeland. Among the 17 signatories, it was once again crawling with former NSDAP officials: Logdman, Tins, Staffen, Wollner, Leibl, Schmidt, Schneider, Diewock, Benatzky and others. And according to your former Minister of Culture and High Representative, they're nice countrymen. Dear countrymen with a Nazi past! And you still support them in the fact that they want to make their own convention in the Czech Republic! So if there's anyone extremist here, then we're with this extremist party that meets Nazis and fascists, an organization that's based provenly Nazis and fascists, and the Home Office is pointing it out, so we never want anything to do with them. And I'm telling you here again for the third time, so that Mr. Bělobrádek, who is now pretending not to listen, so I'm telling you through the President, every meeting, every meeting at the moment that you go to the microphone and you tell your lies, I've got it in my bag like I had it now, I'm going to go get it right now, so I'm gonna go to the microphone with priority, so we know exactly - exactly what KDU-ČSL is. That's what we're going to name. And it's up to you. It's up to you if I'm gonna be here, if I'm gonna go in my bag for it, and if I'm gonna read it over and over again. That's the truth. The truth about KDU-ČSL!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u39	Only technically - I apologize to the Vice-President, he has been acting with priority rights, he can do whatever he wants. That's right. Mr Bělobrádek is registered with a factual remark, and Mr Španěl and Mr Černohorský will be prepared. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u40	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, through Mr Okamura, I am only afraid of the Lord. And threatening someone like you doesn't make me curious. I had one of those at the slaughterhouse for dinner. That's the first thing. [[Sudden huge noise in the hall.]] Second thing. I have to tell you, your AfD colleagues, your AfD colleagues wanted to come to the Sudeten Němec reunion as well. But they don't want neo-Nazis there, so there are Social Democrats, Christian Democrats, Greens, there are other parties that are both represented in the Bavarian and German Parliaments. I was there, yes, and I sat next to Mrs Knoblochová, who was awarded the Karel IV Award. He's the president of the German Žid. She's a descendant of people or a descendant of people who died in the Holocaust. And she was honored and very much appreciated by the Sudeten Němec giving her this award. And I can also tell you that what you're talking about here, I haven't met any of the people you've been talking about. And I have just come to support the Sudeten Němec because Landsmanshaft has agreed and, after five years of trial, the very extremists who opposed it have been recognized by the court that giving up property claims is correct and that the amended statutes are correct. It's something else if you react like that, of course you can. I'm looking forward to it. I don't have the advantage of priority rights. And I might as well explain to you that what you're saying here is complete nonsense. It's exactly the same as when you're covering for Matteo Salvini as your friend and how we belong. [[Attention on time.]] And he wants to bring refugees here on the basis of mandatory quotas!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u41	Thank you. I don't have anyone registered with factual remarks or a debate. I'm looking from the diaper. I am ending the general debate. Is he interested in...? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I appeal to you to support this proposal, please. And I'm going to say it very capidly. Let's put this law on second reading. We've been babbling around for days with bigger shit. You just saw that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-011-108.u43	So please, I've summoned the other Members to the O.R. I have a motion here to return the motion for completion. I will put this proposal to a vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of returning the proposal for completion? Who's against it? Voting order number 996, 152 Members of Parliament signed in for 82. [[versus 17]] The motion was accepted. This concludes this point. And since it's 18.59, in agreement with the club presidents, I'm done with today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock with answers to the written interpelations. Have a good night.
