ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 195/ - second reading The Minister of Transport, as I said about an hour ago, apologized from the meeting. And I have here a government resolution in which the Prime Minister informs the President of the Chamber of Deputies that he has been charged with discussing this press with the Minister for Regional Development, Mrs Klára Dostálová, to justify this press at second reading. It's at the rapporteur's desk, thank you, Madam Secretary. And Mrs Květa Matušovská, as rapporteur for the press, is also in place. [[The general part of the Members speak very loudly among themselves.]] I can't give the Minister a word yet because there's too much noise. So if you are discussing a subject other than inland navigation, I will ask you all once again to bring these debates into the foyer! I'll wait. [[The noise has eased.]] I think that the situation in the House is now such that we can discuss press 195 in a dignified atmosphere. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport is submitting a bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The main objective of the bill is to ensure the transposition of Directive 2016/1629 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. Furthermore, Directive 2009/100 is amended and Directive 2006/87 is repealed into national law. The complete transposition of this Directive will be achieved through the adoption of implementing legislation, which is also remembered by the empowering provisions contained in the draft law. In particular, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, the basic conditions for the operation of vessels on inland waterways, the process for approving the technical competence of vessels, the issue of certificates of vessels, the conditions for shortening and extending the period of validity of certificates of vessels and the establishment of a new registration of certificates of vessels demonstrating compliance with harmonised technical requirements, including ensuring the transmission of the selected data to the European database of hulls and their deletion. The draft law also brings further changes beyond the framework of that directive. The most significant of these changes is the introduction of an obligation on operators of certain vessels operating on specified transport-related waterways to equip the vessel with a vessel tracking and tracing equipment and navigation chart display equipment and information on the position and movement of vessels. The legal anchoring of this obligation represents another step in the gradual implementation of harmonised river information services in the Czech Republic. This measure will in particular lead to increased navigational safety, environmental protection and traffic efficiency. Part of the proposed bill is also partial regulation and addition of certain provisions of the Inland Navigation Act based on experience from application practice, as well as the implementation of several terminology changes and modifications of legislative technical nature. The Economic Committee recommended the consideration and approval of the draft law, as amended by the approved amendments, which contain solutions to the following factual areas: the drawing of digitised photographs and signatures from existing information systems when issuing a licence, sacrificing a case in a common danger, allowing the performance of activities relating to the prevention of the safety of navigation of the Ministry of Transport and the State Administration, updating references to Union regulations and legislative technical adaptations, including a change in the date of entry into force. It can be summarised that the Ministry of Transport agrees with all the amendments contained in the resolution of the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We, at first reading, ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. We have the resolution of the Committee as House Presses 195/1 and 1952, and now I ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Květa Matušovská, to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, the Economic Committee discussed this House's press at its 22nd meeting on 12 December 2018. It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House Press 195, as approved by the amendments, as commented by the Minister here. We all have it under the House press in the 195/2 system. In fact, it empowers the rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law, instructs the rapporteur of the committee to present a report on the results of the discussion at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Bauer is the first member of the debate, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly share with you a few comments and, above all, the unpleasant feeling that I have taken from the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to say that the amendment to the Act on Inland Navigation at first sight, and this also follows from the speeches made by my previous speakers, seems to be a problem-free proposal, which concerns, in particular, the transposition of the European Directive, and if I had not witnessed a very unpleasant experience at the meeting of the Economic Committee, where, after a turbulent discussion, we have come to the conclusion that this is not only a necessary transposition of the European Directive, but that other new paragraphs, which are fundamentally entering into the business of small businessmen, in this case people who are engaged in ferrying and who operate ferry boats, are also a front for the adoption of European documents, I would also feel that this is a smooth standard. The essence of those in quotation marks, which have so-called the smooth transposition of European law, is that it is the small entrepreneurs who operate, among other things, in the territory of the city of Prague, but also in other parts of the Czech Republic, where we have our rivers, ferry boats, so-called. ferrying, which has a very rich history in the Czech Republic, and through these, whether for the sake of deliberate or unintentional new paragraphs in this transposition directive, there is a new obligation to install and buy new navigational instruments, in this case transponders worth some 120-150 thousand crowns, which basically means that these are things that are about priced at the level of purchasing a new ship or buying some repaired ship. We are, and I must say that I am very pleased by my colleagues from the Economic Committee, which has raised this unfortunate phenomenon within the framework of this bill. In an effort to help the Czech ferrymen, I have read two amendments within the Economic Committee, which remove transport ships from this obligation, which are small ships up to 20 metres and into the transport of persons over 12 people, and after the discussion I think we have reached a very reasonable agreement on the compromise that the Ministry of Transport has finally recognised that the obligation imposed on ferrymen in particular is beyond the scope of this directive and that this is an unnecessary thing. The gentlemen's agreement was that I would withdraw these two amendments and in the coming days we would try to find a compromise with the relevant Ministry to resolve this issue and help remove Czech carriers from this extreme obligation from this bill. I must finally say that we have agreed and, through my person and colleague Martin Kolovratník, we have tabled an amendment which is included in the system under document No 2072, which is why I would like to ask you to take note that this compromise proposal is available here, and I hope that it will find broad support in the future vote on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. In the other two things, I wanted to take advantage of the Minister's presence, hoping he'd be here. She is only here, Madam Secretary, but I would like to say that the complications of the operation of ferry ships, but in general ferrying is not only in those sections that, in my opinion, were smuggled there not with good intentions, but other problems also concern the decree itself, which is a sub-law standard which very hard sets out the conditions under which transport ships in the Czech Republic can build at all. This is also a matter for discussion, and I would like to ask the Minister, through Mr President, if she could convey this problem to the Minister. Another problem, in my opinion, is also disproportionate requirements for captain's exams or for those who are the transport ships here in Prague, in South Bohemia, where I live, in Lipna, but in other places in the Czech Republic they then control the boats. So I also think that there is a fundamental problem that should appear in the sub-legal standards, it should be addressed, and this small group of people, who hold this centuries-old tradition, are employing a considerable number of people, helping. So thank you for your attention and, in the context of a detailed debate, I assume, together with my colleague Martin Kolovratník, we will sign up to this document 2072. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u7	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník is now next in the general debate, followed by Mr Pávek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u8	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. In fact, in my speech, I will only follow up on the previous speaker, Mr Bauer. We really, and I'm going to abstain from the political evaluation or commentary of the situation, but we really did find out on the Guarantee Economic Committee that the Ministry's initial proposed transposition is unnecessarily large, I'm going to say an extreme obligation to those small, whether recreational or transport ships, which should be equipped with such a robust system, and there is no rational justification for that. And I can confirm the deal that finally happened. Mr Bauer withdrew his proposal and, after the agreement, we, together with the legislation of the Ministry of Transport, communicated the wording of the final amendment, I see it as a joint one, and agreed that colleague Bauer was the originator, so in a detailed debate, he would sign up to it. And very simply, in Section 32e, it is therefore said that ships that are a recreational craft or a ferry ship need not have such a duty. In my comment, I will mention one more thing that we think remains open, and we do not want to deal with it in this amendment of the law. The amendment, at the same time, parallel to what we are discussing, introduces a new view of what is a big ship and what is called. a small vessel. It now defines that the small vessel is a ship which is less than 20 metres, but also has a transport of 12 passengers or so. etc. But, for example, the so-called ones. the ferrymen say, they come up with the argument that they are being transported on that waterway always on a fixed road, only from point A to point B. So they do not move anywhere else and would like to discuss any further adjustments. But at this point, the agreement is that we will no longer go into this issue, at least as part of this amendment. I believe that when I return to this amendment that we will reach an agreement and that the Ministry of Transport, which is therefore informed and coordinated with the text, will agree to it on the Economic Committee. I still want to say a few words for myself on the next amendment that I tabled during this day. It is rather a minor technical specification, which really goes into the depths of technical detail. At present the system is such that the Ministry of Transport in the role of the navigation office has so called. the entrusted company or authorised partner, which approves, technically approves for the operation of new vessels, new ships, carries out those technical inspections, and has some historical development. And I say in this amendment that if another company were interested in this approval, which is possible, and I think it is also right for us to have some competitive environment in this area, then the new candidate should have, in accordance with European legislation and regulations, given a clearly defined implementing legislation, how he actually controls the ships and their technical condition. And logically, in this proposal, we say that the text of the technical regulation must be approved by the Ministry of Transport. He must have an effect on it. And it can't be done without him. It is Amendment 2072, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, and we will, of course, discuss it expertly on the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u9	Thank you. Mr Pávek, as so far the last member of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this is evergreen. This has been coming back to us from the very beginning, when Minister Ťok has read non-transpositional measures within the framework of this directive, which introduces an obligation - according to the Ministry of Transport, to clarify this - which introduces an obligation to install navigation equipment. Maybe for those of you who haven't been to the Economic Committee to explain, I'd like to tell you that they have the prescribed screen size - about this big. [[He's showing clearly.]] That means the smaller vessels, if you put this navigational device in, you won't fit in yourself. And when it comes to ferrying, you can't send any more clients that you would transfer from one bank of the Vltava River to another. We discussed it rather sophisticatedly on the Economic Committee. We attacked the material problems that were there. This was not a political debate, it was a very substantive debate. And the Department of Transport promised to fix it. It said, and this was the gentlemen's agreement that Mr Bauer's amendments would not be read if the Ministry of Transport himself worked up the comments that we raised on the Economic Committee and removed these shortcomings, which are basically bullying in nature and are not really needed, which bear the forced costs for those entrepreneurs, without any benefit to the state or increase safety when operating on domestic voyages. Unfortunately, it didn't. It certainly didn't happen in its entirety. This means, for us, for us, we cannot support this standard as it has been put forward, and we will bow to those amendments that have been made here by colleagues Bauer and Kolovratník. In addition to my colleague, Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President. You know, my colleague, that the definition of the small vessel is crucial, among other things, because the vessel has to buy such equipment or not. That cost is about 150,000. No ferryman would ever make money for that. So it's like it's not possible to accept this standard without the definition of a small vessel below 20 meters already being anchored, because otherwise the standard would have preceded it, the obligation to actually get the device preceded the possibility of not buying it in some way if I were to drive a smaller one. As for what you just said, you're going to load the little changeling, so in terms of the technical parameters for putting new vessels into service, I think that this should be done in a similar form to that of cars. This means that the parameters of the authorising officer should be clearly defined and should not be too free, which in this way we are sort of on the same page. So for us, we certainly cannot approve the standard in the form submitted by the Ministry of Transport, and we will have to turn to those amendments that emerged from the negotiations of the Economic Committee and had broad support across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u11	Thank you. Mr Adamec is reporting for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, I wouldn't just blame it on Minister Took. As the implementation or transposition of European law, this is what we hear here every plenary session on various bills. And when someone starts saying that it's a clean implementation, I always do, because most of the time it never is, and it turns out that it wasn't in this case either. And as I listened to my colleague Bauer when he said that these were such strange circumstances on the Economic Committee, I always ask myself such a fundamental question, in fact, why should we adopt such a bill? I understand that when commercial vessels ride the river, it's good to be followed by that transponder, it's for safety, and it's also for the owners of those ships to know where the ships are, what kind of goods they move on the water. But I certainly don't understand what kind of story when it goes down the river so everyone knows where it is when I make it very simple. By the ferry, and some of the ferry's still on the cable, so I don't get it at all. And I'm always asking myself, who's it gonna be good for? That's the famous phrase from the Pelíšek. And who you'll be good for! [[Strongly.]] Who? Well, of course, we all know those who make and deliver the transponders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u13	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. Is there any interest in the final words - Madam Secretary, rapporteur? He's not interested. Before I open up a detailed debate, I will introduce you to the fact that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. I am opening up a detailed debate. The first entry is Ms Matušovská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for House document 2118. It is an amendment which actually deals with the assessment of the technical competence of vessels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u15	Thank you. Mr Bauer will also speak in a detailed debate, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u16	I would also apply to the document that is included in the system under number 2072. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u17	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník, so far the last one entered in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u18	Thank you. I am correcting the tape - I said the wrong number in the general debate. Now I'm gonna say the right thing. I am reporting for my amendment, which is set out in the system under number 2116. Within the scope of my application, I can respond to Mr Pávek for having received a fresh dissenting opinion from the Ministry of Transport on my clarification a little while ago. I look forward to the Economic Committee. I am deeply convinced that if someone is appointed by the Ministry, they must clearly comply with certain conditions which the Ministry will itself check, but we will discuss this on the Economic Committee. So 2116. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-006-010.u19	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No. I am ending the debate in detail. Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur is interested in the final words. Because there have been no proposals that we should now vote on, so I finish second reading, discussing this bill. Initiating item discussion
