ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u1	12. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá, Stanislav Grospič and Květa Matušovská on the issue of the Act on the abolition of Act No. 99/2000 Sb., on the prohibition of supply for the Búšehr nuclear power plant /house printing 112/ - second reading We have interrupted the discussion of this point 7. 11th of this year at the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the general debate. I recall that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee, and the press was directed to the Defence Committee, the Security Committee, the Committee on European Affairs, the Foreign Committee and the Committee on Budgets. Mr Roman Kubíček, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, took the position of the rapporteur. We have interrupted negotiations in the general debate during the speech by Mrs Jana Černochová. The Member is not present, she is excused, so we are not going to give her the floor now, and I am asking if anyone is reporting to the general debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] No one applies to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words. He's interested. The rapporteur, Mr Roman Kubíček, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we interrupted at the moment when Mrs Černochová made a motion to reject it at third reading, but the rapporteurs of the various committees did not speak. So I would sum up here in the fact that most committees have interrupted the negotiations, the Committee on Budgets has not dealt with this law and two committees have adopted a resolution. One was the Committee on Security and one was the Economic Committee. At its meeting, the Economic Committee recommended rejecting this law, I am the rapporteur and the Economic Committee, so I am lecturing this opinion, and for the Security Committee, I think it was Mr Bělica.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u3	Yes, thank you. If Mr. Josef Bělica wants to speak, I'll give him my word now. Yes, he wishes to get out. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Security Committee from its 10th meeting, which took place on 21 June 2018 on the proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá, Stanislav Grospič and Květa Matušovská for the Act on the abolition of Act No. 99/2000 Sb., on the prohibition of supply for the nuclear power plant Búšehr, House press 112. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Vice-President of the House of Doctor Vojtěch Filip, following the report by Mr Josef Bělica and after the general and detailed debate 1. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. We do not hear the committee's position, which is certainly important in this case, so that we can all hear it. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll read it again: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic make a proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá, Stanislav Grospič and Květa Matušovská for the Act on the abolition of Act No. 99/2000 Sb., on the prohibition of supply for the nuclear power plant Búšehr, the House press 112, rejected; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to familiarise the House with this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u7	Thank you and I also ask Mr Benešík or Mr Lipavský whether they want to speak for the committees or the Committee on Budgets, which is represented by Mr Martínek, whether he is interested in familiarising us with the position. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u8	I just briefly said that a resolution was adopted at the 22nd meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 3 April 2019, where it first notes that the Parliament's press number 112 will not be dealt with by the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u9	Thank you. And now we have to go back to the general debate. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. Now, just to be safe, I am opening up a detailed debate. Anyone interested in speaking in a detailed debate? Yes, President Bartošek is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u10	Thank you for the floor. In the context of a detailed debate, I am making a motion for rejection at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u11	Yes, I did. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Yes, President Vojtěch Filip is interested in the final word for the plaintiff. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I would like to comment briefly on the general detailed debate. I respect that there's a motion to dismiss, and I must say I'm surprised what kind of trick attempts have been made here. The weirdest one I've ever seen in my years wasn't ridiculous, like some, like breaking up over 120 days to dissolve the House, but he was very dangerous. The House didn't accept him, and I'm glad. [[18.10 hours]] It was a suggestion that the House should not deal with the press until the end of the term of office. If we vote, we will actually introduce a practice here that a Member or a group of Members will not have the right to discuss their draft law. It is enough that most bills are not discussed here for the sake of time, but this applies to everyone. If this practice were to occur here, we would at least get out of the constitutional framework. And I point out that this is a very dangerous thing that can eliminate the democratic process from this House in the future. The second thing I want to comment on is the question of allies and symbols. You know, I have no doubt that politics is about symbols, politics is also about allies, but politics is also about the fact that allies should have respect for the right of their friends, their allies to have their own economic policies that do not in any way interfere with allied ties to anyone. And this bill, which repeals the law restricting businesses in the Czech Republic, does not interfere with our relations with either the State of Israel or the United States. And I would remind you that the device that was specifically involved was supplied by a company in the UK, which is partly owned by US capital. So we forbade ourselves to produce something, deliver something, get money for it, we had to compensate the specific Czech company ZVVZ Milevsko from the state budget because we caused it as a state that they could not realize their contract, while those who tried it, if we are the fools who will simply be more papal than the Pope, I apologize for the comparison, who will be able to free up space in the economic dispute for their delivery. Well, it seems abnormal to me. And so let me say and repeat - and I follow up on what she has said here, I wanted to respond to this, but since the debate has been interrupted, Mrs Jana Černochová, I cannot tell her now that it is absent, but I repeat again the words given by the Council of the European Union Regulation 2015/1861 that the general ban on the export of dual-use use as set out in Annex 1 to Council Regulation No. 428/2009, which continues to prohibit the export of items including goods, technology and software listed in the Missile Technology Control Scheme. In view of the above, the proposed legislation is in full compliance with European Union law. - That's what I'm saying, because nothing like that comes into the Boushehr nuclear power plant, which, among other things, is long overdue, and the law itself is obsolent, so it's useless for those deliveries, so that's the thing where, in my opinion, those who, for example, are falsely arguing here. They say it would violate our friendship with the State of Israel. I don't believe it, it's a pointless argument that really has nothing to do with the right of our businesses to supply the technology that we produce, which is not on the list of any prohibited goods to any state in the world. And then we need to realise whether those who argue in this way are really defending the interests of those voters who voted for them in the Czech Republic, whether it is a matter of defending the interests of this state or defending the interests of a completely different state. Often those interests border on treason. And I use that word on purpose to realize that those states that are asking us not to do this or that will eventually take our place in international trade, instead of our businesses that have exported there for years. Therefore, I believe that we are not to be subject to false arguments, we are to protect our Czech national interest, the interests of our businesses, the interests of our people who work in those businesses, whether they are employees, workers or managers. Because they've done a lot of honest work for you, they've got a contract that has incredibly prestigious significance for deliveries to completely different states. Because it's not really about whether we delivered this facility to the Boushehr nuclear power plant, but if we can supply it and we can prove that our businesses are successful in this international tender and when they were last successful. And the point is not that we can involve ZVVZ Milevsko in supply relations, in increasing the capacity of the Dukovany nuclear power plant or the Temelín nuclear power plant. Finally, the government of the Czech Republic will decide soon how to choose the supplier of the technology and what interests we will have there as representatives of the Czech Republic, representatives of the Czech industry. So in this respect, I would like to bring you all who are not convinced that this obssolent law is to be abolished, to ask you to reread the explanatory report, which briefly, very briefly, on three quarters of the page, to state the reasons for which the European Union continues to present the agreement, the nuclear agreement between the European Union, i.e. between all states, including the Czech Republic, in relations with Iran, and why the difference between the European Union and the United States of America. We are part of the European Union, as decided in the referendum. And I respect that referendum. I respect it more than many who call on the European Union at every opportunity. I have reservations as to how the European Commission treats individual states, particularly medium and small, and how we can be overvoted under the Treaty of Lisbon. But on the other hand, given that this is not a matter contrary to our commitments to the European Union, I would also ask you to respect our relations with Europe, which we have with other suppliers that we can communicate with. I understand that the first vote to be made at third reading is a motion for rejection. I would like him not to pass if the law had been passed, because the legislative process would eventually not end by approving the law. I can imagine a debate in the Senate, I can imagine one more time the debate in the bill proposal, which is likely to return to us the Senate, but I would still like to point out that we should appreciate the decision of the citizens of the Czech Republic, i.e. Firstly, the accession of our Republic to the European Union, our commitments to the 27th, but also our own responsibility to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you. So much for the final word. I don't think there was any proposal that could be voted at second reading, only a motion to reject it, given the simplicity of the law, and that will be voted at the beginning of the third reading. I think the rapporteur's checking up on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-008-012.u13	Thank you. Is the rapporteur of the guarantee committee interested in the final word? No. I really confirm that no proposal that we should now vote on has fallen, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Mr Julius Špičák today from 18.30 to 19 for work reasons, Mr Marek Excellent until the end of the day for working reasons, from 18:30 to 21:00 for working reasons, Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes. Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologises from 18.15 to 23.30 and from 18.00 to the end of the day for personal reasons Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes. [[18.20 hours]] The next item is:
