ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-003-022.u1	22. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union tax regulations and the prevention of double taxation /German press 572/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-003-022.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, one more time. Allow me to introduce to you the bill which amends certain laws in connection with the implementation of the European Union's tax regulations and the prevention of double taxation. The draft law contains amendments to tax laws in relation to the implementation of the European Union's rules and in the area of double taxation to be effective from 1 January 2020, with the exception of certain provisions which take effect during the course of the 2020 or 2022 mountain. The inclusion of these amendments in one legislation increases clarity for tax entities because they are not implemented by a number of separate laws, but are contained in a proposal for a single legislation. The amendment to the Income Tax Act brings unification in the terminology used regarding international treaties and complementing the transposition of the directive against tax avoidance practices, the so-called ATAD Directive. The Act on Value Added Tax provides for mandatory implementation of Union law and related legislative technical regulations. This implementation improves the existing system of value added tax in the field of intra-Community supply of goods by introducing sub-measures, introducing additional conditions for exemption for the transfer of goods to another Member State, which will lead to greater legal certainty for legal entities, as well as to increasing the quality and reliability of data in the system of exchange of information between Member States, which is of key importance in the fight against tax fraud. Furthermore, it is a harmonisation of the rules on the application of value added tax for cross-border supply of goods to a single transport and harmonisation of rules and standardization of procedures for cross-border supply of goods under the warehouse regime for a previously known customer. It is also an adjustment of the special scheme for travel services and exemption from tax on exports of goods following recent judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Law on excise duties implements EU law, which newly includes the Italian municipality of Campione d ©Italia and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano into the customs territory of the European Union and the territory of the European Union. This Directive is also formally reflected in the Value Added Tax Act without material impact. The amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration introduces a new circle of automatically exchanged information under the so-called DAC 6 Directive, an amendment to the Directive on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Taxation. The proposal introduces an exchange of so-called reported cross-border arrangements, such as recommendations, guidelines, opinions and similar documents, which have cross-border implications and fulfil the legally defined features suggesting that tax avoidance could occur. The proposal constitutes a pure transposition which in no way goes beyond the requirement of the directive. The directive allows, for example, to collect purely national arrangements beyond minimum requirements, but the Ministry of Finance decided not to use this and other expansional possibilities. The notified arrangements shall be exchanged between the Member States concerned of the European Union. The bill is based on the principle that the obligation to announce the arrangement does not mean without further, that the arrangement is defective and that it is illegal to proceed according to it. Thus, the financial authorities will not treat the notifiers of the arrangement a priori as someone seeking to avoid tax obligations. However, the absence of the tax authorities' response to the notification does not mean that the arrangement is in order and that the procedure according to it is in accordance with the law; Directive DAC 6 also explicitly requires this. In particular, the main objective of the measure is to identify weaknesses in the tax system, in particular as a result of the possibility of avoiding taxation by making profits to other countries where there is a low or zero tax. In particular, following the notifications made, systemic measures, whether in the field of international cooperation, can be taken by a national change in the procedure of tax administrators or, if this is not enough, by a change in tax laws. [[9.20 hours]] The obligation to report this arrangement conflicts with the obligations of lawyers, tax advisors and other legal professionals who must respect professional secrecy both during the inter-ministerial review procedure and when discussing the draft law in the bodies of the Government Legislative Council. That is why the Ministry of Finance communicated with the Czech Bar Association and the Chamber of Tax Advisors, so that it was affected as little as possible by professional secrecy and the directive was correctly transposed. A compromise solution has been reached in this regard, which is acceptable both to the plaintiffs of the government bill and to the professional chambers. The amendment to the Law on Special Procedure constitutes only a technical amendment following the transposition of the directive on mechanisms for the resolution of tax disputes in the European Union. The proposal was drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-003-022.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that Mr Jiří Dolejš take the floor as rapporteur for first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-003-022.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. As you may have heard in the opening words of the Minister, this proposal concerns the issue of tax avoidance, which is undoubtedly important. We all want to clog these different holes and put obstacles in the way of different tax hikes and here it has served us as an inspiration and source of law, especially the European Union. It's an extensive amendment, it's an implementation amendment, it's an amendment that concerns five Czech laws that the Minister has named here. I will mention only income tax, excise duty, VAT, international cooperation in tax administration and, of course, there was also a special court proceedings. So I think the work to discuss, the absorption of this proposal will be more than enough. I think that there is absolutely no reason to prevent this at first reading and that we are particularly looking forward to it on the soil and on the guarantee committee, i.e. the budget, that we will discuss it. It should be said that it was originally calculated that this should start from 1 January 2020. As is obvious, this may not be possible, but this problem will undoubtedly be managed in the course of further negotiations. I don't want to stall. For me, that's all at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-003-022.u5	I thank you and open a general debate on this point and ask if anyone is interested in speaking. I don't see anyone in the room. I am ending the general debate and we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? There's no one in the O.R. I've called in my colleagues from the lobby and we're going to vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote 89 registered 149, for 137, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking if there's anyone in this room who's interested in proposing a commandment to another committee. I don't see anyone like that. Thank you all, and I finish reading this proposal first. I'm opening point 23, which is
