ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the Security Corps, as amended /German press 410/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The Government proposes that we proceed under § 90 para. 2, that is, to approve this bill at first reading. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is ready. A colleague of the rapporteur Zdeněk Ondráček is also ready. And as soon as there's peace of mind, Prime Minister, Home Secretary, I'll give the floor. I ask for peace, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to introduce a bill amending Act No.361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the security forces, as amended. The reason for submitting this proposal is the decision of the Constitutional Court which takes place with effect from 30 June this year to repeal Section 48 (1) of the Constitutional Court. 2 of this Act. The aim of the proposal is to lay down the conditions and restrictions for the performance of other gainful activities of members directly in the law. So far, these conditions and restrictions are regulated by internal regulations, which the Constitutional Court found unconstitutional. A member of the Security Council will be able, with the approval of the official of the service, to engage in other gainful activities, provided that such activity does not result in a conflict of interests between the personal interests of the service, a threat to the good reputation of the security corps or a threat to the important interest of the service. If the official of the service finds that the circumstances under which the consent to pursue another gainful activity has changed, he or she shall be obliged to revoke that approval. The proposal also defines a range of activities which the member will be able to perform by law, i.e. without the above-mentioned consent of the official of service. These are mainly activities that can be done without consent also within other employment relationships - management of own property, scientific and pedagogical, literary and artistic activities and so on. I would like to conclude by stressing that, if, by the end of June of this year, the legislation laying down the conditions for the pursuit of other gainful activities of the members is not approved, the members will be able to pursue any other gainful activity without restriction, which may lead to a significant risk of conflict of interest and potentially also to a security risk. Furthermore, the proposal is the result of a compromise that arose from the work of a working group composed of representatives of security forces, trade unions and the Ministry of the Interior. That is also why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to approve this proposal in the first reading under Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to present the news report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the Government's bill amending Act No. 360/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the Security Corps, is a response to the Constitutional Court's decision of 11 September 2018, the file mark Plénum of the Constitutional Court 24/17, which annulled the provisions of § 48 para. 2 of the Law. I would like to mention here that although the Constitutional Court's finding is from mid-September, this material is only presented now, essentially after five months, and we have less than four months until the Constitutional Court's finding becomes effective. Therefore, there is a requirement, as the Minister mentioned, for the Chamber of Deputies to agree to the proposal at first reading, according to § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). What exactly is involved and what was the reason for issuing the Constitutional Court ruling, the Minister told you in the introductory words. So it's pointless to repeat it. Such a brief news report, and I would like, Mr President, to join the general debate, where I will ask the Minister some additional questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I'm opening the debate. I have Mrs Jana Černochová's application for it, and I note the rapporteur's application to the debate as a Member. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u7	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you. I will ask the House once again for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and I'd like us to discuss these things in an atmosphere that meets the demands of the law that we want to approve at first reading. Please, debates that do not concern the law are fundamentally in the foyer. Do not force me to appoint those who do not comply with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I would like to object to the hearing under Section 90 on behalf of the ODS and TOP 09. What makes me say that? It leads me to believe that, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior, instead of providing members of the security forces with more dignified conditions, actually motivates security forces and, in particular, police officers to work on side jobs so that they can play ball. I understand that, in the case of pedagogical activities, activities associated with publishing, scientific or property management, there is justification for this. But in this proposal, which still the petitioners want to force us to vote with one vote in the '90s, there's no taxable list of what those cops are gonna be able to do on that side job and what they can't do. [[16.00 hours]] I don't know about you, but it really doesn't seem normal to me that we're gonna have a security force, specifically I'm talking about cops, because with other security forces, firefighters, or even intelligence services, there are restrictions, and they have that possibility, but the criminal authority is the police officer. So here, a very vague formulation about the fact that one of the service officials will judge a possible conflict of interest does not satisfy me personally. You know, if you read in more detail the proposal that the Minister of the Interior has made to us - and I ask why he's only presenting it now, knowing that the Constitutional Court's finding is what it is, yet this government had its ministers, even social democracy had its Minister Mr Chovanec, so now you have to make a quick decision, because if we don't decide this by June, there's a problem, there's a Constitutional Court finding. I don't like that at all. You've had your minister here for quite a long time, so why are you presenting it in the '90s when it's really this crucial thing? So let me explain to you in more detail what the pitfalls in this bill are. The competent official shall decide on the authorisation of a particular member's gainful activity, while the delegation of personnel powers shall depend on the decision of the Director of the Security Corps. So it could be the regional director, but it could be the head of the territorial department, but it could also be the head of the department. The individual decisions of the service officials will have to be honored. There is no methodology to proceed, for example, in Karlovy Vary as well as in Brno. So what will they consider to be a conflict of interest in Brno? If someone is the manager of the Lednice-Valtice complex and needs to do some business as an economic operator, they will allow it in Brno, but in Karlovy Vary someone who wants to take care of the Thermal hotel will not allow it? There's really no clear methodology here about how and who those service officials are going to judge that. If someone should judge, it should be the regional director, or it should be the head of the department. Of course, if the Minister doesn't change it and it stays in this form, he's going to put a lot more demands on it. And here, in the past, we have also recorded a hearing and a call for regional law in this Chamber of Deputies, and we have even heard something about regional law from the chief representatives of the security forces. And I don't think anybody in this room can like it to admit that something like this is possible, because what has been expressly prohibited by the law and has not been legally bypassed will now be allowed by a service official if he doesn't find strong arguments for non-approval. There is no case-law or methodology that that duty officer should follow, so actually, the moment he allows one to do so, it's going to be entitled for the other, if they sue. Even if a unifying order had been issued, it would not have been binding, since the amendment does not provide for any blanket clause. I don't know if the minister noticed. The activity of "bilaterally advantageous" can be allowed, and no one will object because they will not know at all that someone is doing it, such as a municipal officer, a mechanic, a taxi driver, a bouncer. Do you really want people who spend the night driving a car to get into work and chase gossip the next day? In fact, I imagine serving in the Security Corps a little differently than allowing them to be messed up in a fundamental way, a breakthrough that has never been the case here. As I have already said, in order to unify application practice, at least in my opinion, regional directors should decide on this. A decision on matters of service, as I said earlier, will be admissible. It will be decided by the superiors of the service officials. Administrative action may also be brought before the Administrative Chamber of the Regional Court. Then there is an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Judicature may appear sometime in five, seven years. What's gonna happen until then? How will individual service officials decide? Even the unfair intentions of some political entrepreneurs may be a risk. In the past, we have seen trends in their interest in privatizing security. These people will want to participate in ensuring local public order matters. Certainly, even a commercial security service for remuneration, in which members of the security forces would work legally, will be very attractive to them. This will all be done legally. The Service Act allows members to work part-time, this proposal. So in the finals, it might actually happen that a cop is only gonna be on a side job, and security is gonna be a mess. I can give you an example. Someone decides to be a part-time cop, then maybe in their village where they live, they'll want to be a city guard. Well, why wouldn't he be? If the municipal police are set up in that town, they can. And I want to see the duty officer who's gonna forbid that officer. Besides, one will forbid it, the other won't forbid it? How, then, will the police demand what is right? Our courts will be overwhelmed. By the way, you may have noticed this, I'm sure the Minister must have noticed that in some of the security forces there is also a last-minute sense of trying to recruit previously civilized police officers, especially personalists, informatics, economists, lawyers and other service professions outside the direct performance of the service. These people may have taken their uniforms off in the past, they have the right to retain, now they will actually return to the service because their gainful activities will no longer be an obstacle to them. Proving that private personalistic, economic, legal, or informatic activity is in conflict with the interests of the service, let alone unacceptably tired, exhausted, will make it more difficult. Therefore, in my view, this trend is undesirable to defend the need for a service law for security forces. The reasoning states that the law does not entail any impact on the state budget. There's no way I can agree with that. Thousands of double-instance service procedures, including a possible court review, aren't free, do you think? Moreover, the amount of individual considerations of the service officials' corruption risks will undoubtedly not significantly reduce either. There is certainly the chairman of the Permanent Commission for Inspection of the General Inspection of the Mašek Security Corps, through the Vice-President. Well, he's gonna have a good time with GIBS! If this goes away, I can see how many of these filings will have to be dealt with by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. The attractiveness of the service will increase the more, the more extra-service activities will be permitted, but the quality of the service will be quite logically the opposite. [[16.10 hours]] Colleagues, colleagues, I understand that we are haunted here by the Constitutional Court, that if we do not accept anything, there will be a much worse version that will actually cease to apply the service law in this respect and the standard labour code will apply. I don't think any of us want that. On the other hand, this is not the way, as the Minister of the Interior puts it, for us to vote in favour, and for us to vote in favour of this by one vote in the '90s. I guess most of us agree... [[The speaker cancels a loud call and reminds his colleague: Ivan!]] Perhaps most of us agree that publishing, scientific, pedagogical, and other activities do not matter. I certainly don't mind the fact that a police officer is a test commissioner when he's a shooting instructor when he takes care of a shooting range that they have with some frat guy. I don't think there's really any conflict of interest here. But would you like a member of the SKPV for a side job doing economic counseling? Well, I wouldn't like it very much, and I don't think it would like it, it shouldn't like the Minister of the Interior, either, and that it shouldn't be enjoyed by other members of this government who voted for it, because, of course, we all know the conventions here. Colleagues, colleagues, as I say, I do not want the Minister to simply get into a situation that if nothing is accepted, the classic labour code will apply in this respect. Therefore, I have found out how it is for soldiers, how it is for professional soldiers who have their service laws and which I think would solve the problem that the Constitutional Court has put police officers in, and which would solve the problem that the Minister of the Interior is now facing. In addition to the fact that I propose the veto, I propose to return this proposal to the Government for revision with a request that the Government of the Czech Republic take as a model the provisions of Section 47 of Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on the soldiers of the profession, and she did it according to this draft, because it is absolutely fine. Even practice has shown that there is no problem, so why couldn't the same apply to security forces, specifically the Police of the Czech Republic. In this provision, § 47 is, allow me to quote: The soldier may exceptionally, exceptionally, exceptionally, engage in gainful activities only with the written consent of the service authority, provided that such activity does not affect the performance of his service or other important interest in the service. That's just all there is to it. And this provision, if the Minister of the Interior proposed Hanáček, I will certainly not veto this proposal to get back to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss it in the 90s, that is, one proposal. But we cannot vote for this proposal, as it was tabled, in the '90s. And I would really ask that police officials come to the Security Committee, which will deal with this, perhaps also representatives of other security forces, to tell us what the practice is with them, even though - as I said a little while ago - it makes a fundamental difference, because those police officers are the law enforcement authority. They're not paramedics, they're not firefighters, so this conflict of interest right here could be the most important part of the police force. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry I kept you for so long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u9	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. She made two factual points. I respect the rapporteur's interest in the debate, but a factual point, first Jiří Bláha, then Milan Brázdil. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard an emotional speech through a Member of the ODS. I'd pause over two things. The first is that we called our fellow citizens gossip. We're all really gossipy at that point, because those cops are actually saving the works we all do. We all break speed sometimes, we all go to red, we all do things sometimes, so actually we all declassify ourselves into gossip because I don't believe that Mrs. Černochová follows everything. And the second thing that was said here was that, exceptionally, we should allow those who are law enforcement authorities, such as police officers or soldiers, to make extra money - this has been said several times. Remember that these people are normal citizens of our country, that they live in families, that they have needs and do not often have the opportunity to earn a normal life through their service conditions. And we're gonna ban them from making an official profit, and we're gonna keep the state that it is today. This means that there is a condition where those who have those families and are forced by their family into it: either you bring the money or leave the policeman alone, and they do it with love and are able to find free time to earn extra money, so they come to earn money black. If you don't know it and you don't know it and you're not familiar with it, then go to those regions and those cities and ask them how they live and you'll know that they're already working this way today. [[The President enters the speaker: Your time is up. No, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u11	Please don't make me be completely heartless. Please, my colleague Brázdil, a point of fact. Then Mr Ondráček, then Mrs Černochová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'll be factual. The way I see it, it's basically softening the hardness of the service law. I'd put in a good word for it, or I'd feel positive about it. These people can do something, and they can do a lot of other things, and they'd probably like to make a living, and if they have time, I'd let them do it. And most importantly, I would see the positive that maybe even medical rescue services, which today are regional and are a major component of the IZS and are outside the IZS, maybe that would also make it possible for the rescue service to eventually become a full member of the IZS and that eventually the doctors who are currently afraid to go into the Service Act or the paramedics, because they would eventually be willing. And maybe it would just open this door, and the IRS would be uniform, and the main components would be under one ministry. Well, that's my opinion, and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, will be prepared by colleague Černochová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u14	Thank you. We have spoken with the Minister about the seriousness of this press. Dear Minister, colleagues, after a discussion with several former colleagues in our country, there have been questions of a general nature, where this debate does not seem to break down the conditions, as each supervisor sets out individually, whether this will not happen. I suspect you'll answer that I'm sure you won't, but the way it's presented so far, I don't think you can quite guarantee it. Let us try to give one particular example and see if the Minister will be able to answer us. I'm not expecting it today, but we're gonna have it on the committees, so we have time for that. Today I can basically sell surplus from my own management, like apples, honey from beekeeping. I think it's called a yard sale or a yard sale, up to a height where my tax liability doesn't arise. As far as I know, it doesn't bother anyone nowadays, and basically many of the members involved in this activity do, for example. The sale of honey. I think this was also based on the binding instruction of the Police President, who was issued for the modification of the aforementioned Section 48 of the Service Act. My question is to find out whether, according to this new regulation, every setter, beekeeper or small farmer will have to ask permission from his superior and he will, according to his 'lib', decide whether to issue or not to issue a permit, or even subsequently revoke it for breach of certain conditions. [[16.20 hours]] I also note that such a member will not be released in the event of a breach of those conditions, but will only be removed from his rank, which ultimately leads to his dismissal from the service. I think, therefore, that someone has not quite thought of this proposal. But maybe I will be answered, and the doubts that my colleagues and I had in discussing this House with the press can be distracted. Because explaining the difference between keeping accounts for SVJ, when I am a member and owner of an apartment, and managing my own land, or selling surpluses from my own business, I don't actually see the difference. I have to invest time, my work, my reason and my energy everywhere. It is not just a setter or a beekeeper, but basically everyone who is lucky enough to have some results that can be monetized. For me and many of my former colleagues do not see the fundamental difference between teaching without permission, writing books, making an interpreter, all of this can take place, and even in the past held, often during working hours, during business hours, and the activities where I sell apples, honey, cabbage or Christmas trees, which I grow in my own free time on my own land. I will be pleased to have this working group within the committee to answer these questions, so that we can give these colleagues who have dealt with this activity under current legislation and now have these doubts and have asked me to ask the Minister of the Interior, or the petitioners of this law, whether they will have to apply this time, or whether they will continue this steady practice, that if they are growing apples or keeping bees, that this will not be a problem for them to continue their service as a member of the Security Council. Thank you for any answer and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u15	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now, Mrs Černochová in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The word gossip, through you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Blá, is a term that is also used in scientific literature. Maybe you should ask your former Home Secretary, Mr. present-Metnar Secretary of Defense, what that word means, and maybe he'll educate you a little bit. Otherwise, every time you perform, I see those smiles on your faces and your colleagues' faces. They're always very excited about your performance. About what my colleague Brázdil said here. He's absolutely right. It's possible with the paramedics today, they're not under this law. But this is what I consider to be an example that they are actually professions that are exposed in terms of some physical stress, and what can it do if someone after three years (?) which spends in the woods cutting down trees, so the next day he will go to work and deal with his common cop agenda. The problem may be the same as with the police officers, it may occur in the prison service, because they are all members who are under this law. You know, I understand, and that's what my colleague Ondráček said right here, that some activities should not be forbidden. And it's all I care about is having an exhaustive list of what's possible and what's not possible. So that there's a methodical instruction that says that the regional director who's responsible for this is in charge, and not that it's actually someone who's a direct supervisor and who might also be in the same situation, that the sub-contractor will have it, too, and it's stupid for him if he's allowed to do so, so don't allow the co-worker who's under him to ask for it. We will get into rather unpleasant legal situations where some people will actually demand that the same rules apply to everyone. I think that's probably the biggest stumbling block that could happen if he went through this proposal. Otherwise, Mr Bláha's speech through the Vice-President. Mr Bláha may not have realized this, but members of the Security Councils have a number of responsibilities that result from their status as officials, who have to carry out their duties impartially, properly and conscientiously, and are obliged to comply with the duty of service, to obey the order of the superior, to perform the service procedure at the time of their leave, Mr Blá, through the Vice-President, and to fulfil the other obligations laid down in the Staff Regulations. Furthermore, they are to refrain from acting which may lead to conflicts of interest in the service with personal interests, deepen their expertise and maintain their physical fitness, perform the service in such a way as not to affect their political, religious or other beliefs, and not endanger the good reputation of the Security Council. And for that, Mr Blá, through the Vice-President, there are advantages for this, which compensate to some extent the damage that the performance of duties brings to the service. They are granted a six-week leave, paid full salary for one month of incapacity for work, after 15 years of service they are entitled to a two-week stay and after the service they are entitled to a pension. So much for what was said here in the earlier comments. As I'm saying, it's not my goal to cause the Home Office a problem so there's nothing to pay for the labor code. My aim is to unite in this respect what is true for the armed forces with the Security Corps, namely those who are law enforcement authorities. If the Minister chooses the form of a taxative enumeration, or we are familiar with a methodological instruction to clarify how specific ministerial officials will approach these matters, then there is no problem. But let's really talk about this, and let's not put this bill here into a problem that may be seen by some of us today, and then some of us will be surprised in three years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u17	Yes, thank you, Mrs Černochová. Now Mr Bláha's factual comment and then Mr. Interior Minister Jan Hamáček with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u18	Colleagues, co-workers, I'm glad you're having fun. At least sometimes we have fun. But on the other hand, I'd like to say that the people who work with police officers and other state bodies today are already working in the woods or construction sites and they're going to do the job of the policeman or someone else. The problem is, they're doing it black tonight, they're doing it in the gray economy, the state's losing money. And believe that they will, even if you forbid them a thousand times. Because their family has some demands, they have some dreams, some fantasies, and unfortunately, they won't budge, or, thankfully, they won't. Because it allows their family to develop and fulfill their dreams and fantasies. So what you want to do here is just keep an eye on somebody again, keep an eye on somebody, make a decision, prescribe something without looking at them as people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the Minister of the Interior, still in the debate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. First, to the rapporteur about the beekeeper police officer and the gardener policeman. It's from our point of view the administration of own property, there's no problem. So I think you can calm the questioner down. There's no sanctions on them. And now, in general, what my colleague Černochová said. First of all, before I start answering, I would ask that we not bring Milan Chovanec into this, or a colleague of Metnar. The Constitutional Court judged September 11, 2018, and I was the Home Secretary, so it wasn't their fault. That's behind me. Ad a). [[16.30 hours]] Ad (b) Why did it take so long? Well, we, after receiving the relevant judgment of the Constitutional Court, have convened a task force and we have dealt with this matter with the head of police, with the management of firefighters, with the management of other security forces. We dealt with unionists and experts at the Ministry of the Interior. The result is this compromise, which all of these have agreed. And I, when I listen to those reservations, and it's nothing personal, I feel like this is the argument: why do it simply when it's complicated? So we presented a three-page novel where, if I make it very simple, we say: Their boss will decide what the cops can do. Police President, I.D. Managing Director of the Fire Rescue Corps. Of course, if it's delegated to any lower officials, it'll be accompanied by some appropriate methodology. It may not be possible for them to do so in one region, in another region, but I suppose that methodology can be processed when the law is passed. And calling for a method now is premature in my opinion. But in general, if someone is calling for a tax statement, I would warn them terribly. Because - and I'm a little surprised that it sounds from the right, because the right always says, let's not restrict, let's not write laws like novels here. This is exactly the case. So we're gonna sit here on committees for a month and write down all the possible activities that these cops are gonna do, and we're gonna definitely forget one, and it's gonna show up in six months that we've actually left out three activities, and we're gonna open the law again. Please, let's leave it to the police president, let's leave it to the general director of the Fire Rescue Corps. We gave them confidence to lead the congregations. These are professionals who didn't fall from Mars. They have served themselves for years, both Colonel Švejdar and Major General Ryba are people who have really gone through these congregations from scratch. And they know best how and how to formulate the methodology. And please, let's not substitute for the work of the police president and CEO of the Fire Rescue Corps. We can't do this, and it's not gonna end well. That means let's leave it to them! The law is brief, simple. And both of them, and now I speak for those congregations that are in the Ministry of the Interior, but I believe that the same is true of those who are out, i.e. Customs or Prison Service, these congregations are led by professionals, and they are able to compare it so that it works and that it doesn't happen to all the catastrophic scenarios that my colleague Černochová has faked here. But I can almost guarantee you if I have to choose who has to write the methodology, virtually. If it's us in the Chamber of Deputies or the heads of those security forces, it's gonna be a lot better if it's the heads of those security forces than if we're gonna launch some kind of initiative or some kind of creativity here and we're gonna figure it out. So please, from my point of view, let's adopt a simple brief bill that says on three pages that the chiefs of police forces know best what the real situation is, and let's leave it to them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u21	Thank you, Home Secretary. Now with a point of fact, Mr Member - please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u22	I'm sorry I got all worked up here, so I forgot one thing that comes from the veto. I suggest we cut the deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u23	Yes, thank you for the proposal, it was in the debate. Now the factual remark of Mr. Pavel Žáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Security Corps, and I apologize for the expression, they cannot be normal citizens because they have the rights and obligations to carry out their important tasks under the law. So this is what I think is completely incomparable. We have to look at them with this prism. Again, they have the rights and obligations to carry out their tasks. They have a specific legal status so that they can exercise them so that they can even interfere with the rights of other citizens. This concerns, in particular, the police authorities. I believe, and it hasn't been said here that if we open this Pandořin's box and realize it from the very beginning, we'll be on our way in a little while. Why are the cops getting the retainers? It is precisely because they are limited in those rights, given their position within the security forces. So we're about to get to the fact that they're gonna be challenged by their debts because they're gonna be making money off the liabilities. And that's a very dangerous thing. That's why I'm saying it's Pandořin's locker. And if we should support it, let's support the tested variant that the soldiers have and which is in another legal standard. Let's unite! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u26	I just wanted to assure Home Secretary Hamáček that my ambition wasn't for me to present this taxing list. I suppose he heard me when I said that I'd like to return this proposal to the government for rework. That means who the Minister will discuss it with is his business. I assume he'll be discussing it with the service officials and the managers who are with the police. I didn't want us to give the people's parliamentary creativity here an exhaustive list.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, the Minister of the Interior. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u28	I discussed it with them. I've discussed it with the head of security and union, and this is the result. That means, I can hardly go back and say: Dear friends, what we agreed did not like in the Chamber of Deputies, redo it! This is the result of the compromise and agreement with the management of the security forces and with individual trade unions. I brought this to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm thinking how to bring something better here because that's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u29	Thank you. We have other factual points. Mrs Černochová and Mr Ondráček. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u30	We talked about the fact that there should be a catalogue of activities in this proposal, where police officers would not be in conflict of interest. I don't know if you've discussed this catalogue of activities, Minister, with the service officials. All I ask of you is that you take a statistical yearbook, look up a statistical yearbook, or people under your resort have found in a catalogue of activities a variety of professions that are potentially likely to be threatened by police officers, members of the Prison Service or customs officials. I mentioned economic counseling, tax advice. I don't mind publishing, pedagogical, translation, own property management, shooting range management, commissioners, instructors - there is probably a minimum risk of these people ever getting into conflict of interest. I mean well, because if there isn't such a catalogue of activities here, Minister, you'll find yourself in a situation where what one officer in the service gives permission to a police officer, if another police officer at the other end of the Republic demands the same and fails, he'll bring it to trial and you, Minister, will most likely be losing those courts. Because the court will say that one officer can't be discriminated against when something similar was allowed to another. So an exhaustive list or catalogue is a proposal that would explain possible disputes and would prevent those disputes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Ondráček's factual remark, then Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I, from the negotiations with representatives of trade unions, both the Police of the Czech Republic and all other security forces, can confirm that this material was discussed on this particular working group and this material is also the result of the meeting that took place in the working group. It is probably necessary to realize that some activities may be prohibited and that one member of the same police force is permitted, because we can impose other requirements on a member who supervises weapons and ammunition, and the other one who conducts investigations into serious economic crime. So I would certainly leave the legal option there to the head of the Security Corps and his authorized staff with personnel authority. And what my colleague Žáček mentioned. This material is nothing about service. Of course, I have also read that if § 48 is allowed and it is changed, the basic tariffs will be reduced by 8.5% for those who are increased by exactly 10 percent in those basic tariffs. Please, that doesn't come from the law. These are just fantasies, which are simply spread to cause some commotion in the security corps. This material does not solve anything at all as regards debts, but also basic tariffs and evaluation of the work of members of the security forces.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to mention that it is a great pity that Prime Minister Babiš is not here today, because we do not have a greater expert on conflict of interest in this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I don't have an application for a debate, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u36	Just very briefly. From the logic of the matter, I cannot agree with the proposal to return the petitioner to the recast. I don't think so, and I'm stressing again what I said, it's better to negotiate with the unionists and the head of the security forces than what we agreed on. I would very much warn against any cataloguing, because even from the speech of the rapporteur, it is obvious that we would have to create something that would be about this thickness, no one would know about it, and for every police activity we would have to assess whether there is anything to be permitted, unacceptable for a given service assignment. [[shows clearly]] Please, let's not invent a bike, let's leave it to the head of the security corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u37	Thank you. The rapporteur with the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u38	Although the management meeting has not changed, I recall that a motion for a re-evaluation has been made and then a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u39	Yes, thank you. So, first of all, we will look at the bill proposal to return the proposal to the petitioner for work that has been done in the debate. I will rejoin and invite those whom I have asked to hold discussions in the foyer if they are interested in deciding on this matter to return to the Chamber and we will decide. The proposal to return the proposal to the petitioner for completion will be voted by order number 33, which I have launched and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 33 of the 182 present for 29, against 92. The motion was denied. We will continue with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we can decide in the 34 series vote, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 34 of the 183 Members present for 162, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee of Security as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone else have a proposal for other committees? Okay, I see. A colleague of Benda and a colleague of Pávek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u40	Thank you. I'd like to propose a financial committee. [[President: Committee on Budgets.]] Sorry, sorry, budget committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u41	Okay. Mr Pávek has a proposal for a committee of budget. My colleague Benda wants to get a job. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u42	[[With a smile.]] Mr Vice-President, I am under pressure from my esteemed colleague that all congregations should work equally and with the same rules if possible, and not that I have no confidence in the Security Committee, but I suggest that we also discuss the matter on the Constitutional Legal Committee and, if necessary, assess why there are differences between the service of soldiers and police officers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-003-011.u43	Yes, thank you. The Constitutional Committee has been proposed. Nobody's designing anymore? Okay. We will decide on the Committee's commandment to the budget in the vote on order number 35, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 35 out of 183 present for 40, against 74. The motion was not accepted. The next vote will be the commandment of the Committee of Constitutional Law. I've started a 36-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 36 of the 183 present for 74, against 73. The motion was not accepted. I'm saying we haven't ordered any further committee to discuss it. I expect at least the constitutional committee to take this press for discussion on its initiative. We have a proposal left in the debate - to shorten the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days. We will decide in the vote the order number 37 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 37 of 183 present for 94, against 45. The motion was accepted. I can therefore say that the 410 press has been assigned to the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The hearing period was reduced to 30 days. I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Before we proceed, allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, an apology to Mr Juříček from today's meeting from 17:00 to the end of the day. The next item will be the item when the situation in the Chamber calms down.
