ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 565/1990 Coll., on Local Charges, as amended /House print 286/8/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution is delivered as Parliamentary Press 286-9. We have information on the amendments in our mail. I welcome Senator Karel Kratochvíle among us, and I ask that Mrs Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. We'll give her time before the Minister of Culture lets her go to the rapporteur's desk, and please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, or rather tonight. The draft law amending Act No.565/1990 Coll., on local fees, has already been presented in detail, which is why I will sum up only the most important changes contained in the bill. The introduction of a new stay fee which will replace the existing spa or recreational stay fees and the accommodation capacity. It will therefore be possible to introduce a fee for any municipality without any link to the presence of a spa or increased tourism. The fee will be charged for any short-term paid stay regardless of the type and destination of the place where it is provided, i.e. next to hotels, motels and guesthouses, also in private apartments, studios and the like. The maximum limit for the amount of the fee is proposed at CZK 21 for 2020, which corresponds to the sum of the rates of the current two fees, and subsequently CZK 50 for each day of stay except for the date of beginning of stay. It is therefore a response to the fact that the amount of the spa or recreational stay fee has not changed for more than 25 years. In so doing, the specific amount of fees up to this maximum limit shall always be determined by the individual municipality in a generally binding decree. A more precise definition of the exempted persons and the relief of the fee from dogs, where all persons operating dog shelters, regardless of their founder, and the existing relief for persons whose sole source of income was an old-age, widowed and widowed or disabled pension, will be replaced by a relief for all persons over 65 years of age and the exemption of persons holding a ZTP licence. Only holders of the ZTP licence have been exempted so far. [[18.00 hours]] Introduction of the anti-abuse clause on charges for the use of public space and admission charges. A new condition for exemption from the fee will be the fact that the proceeds from the event were actually paid for charity purposes. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed from 1 January 2020. With regard to the amendments, the first subject to which the amendments concern is the abolition of the exemption of so-called crossmen, i.e. persons who are fully covered by public health insurance due to their medical condition or the need for recovery after the care operation. This cancellation cannot be agreed with because it would have adversely affected the elderly in particular. The original bill exempts these persons from the fee and only persons who are fully or partially paid for their stay in the spa should pay the tourist fee for their stay in the spa. It was precisely the maintenance of the liberation of crossmen that convinced the Ministry of Finance to agree with the requirement, in particular, of the spa municipalities, that the law should not anchor the exemption from the tourist fee for seniors. Due to the increase in the maximum amount of the stay fee and the duration of the stay in the spa, this could be a small amount for crossmen, which would have to be paid directly by insured persons, as is currently the case. Another topic is the introduction of elements of the accommodation fee into the proposed adjustment of the stay fee, i.e. charging not only short stays but also long stays over 60 days. I do not fully agree with this proposal. The proposal goes significantly against the whole concept of the stay fee, which is conceived primarily as a tourist fee. The merger of the two existing fees into one new fee of the proposed character is the result of a relatively broad consensus arising for a long time on the basis of the Ministry of Finance's efforts, but also of the Ministry of Regional Development. Launching a limit of 60 days would lead to a fundamental change in the concept of a bill that cannot be agreed with. A change in concept could, among other things, affect the hostels of socially weak, which is completely counterproductive. The amendment creates considerable scope for circumvention of the fees obligations and risks that it will not cover all possible cases of granting of a stay, including cases of providing paid short stays in apartments whose charging is one of the main purposes of amending the Local Charges Act. Moreover, as a result of the adoption of the amendment, there may be problems with the manageability of the fee. The existing accommodation fee was amended in 2003 because it was based on the actual use of the immovable property, which in practice made it difficult for municipalities to demonstrate whether the facility served as a temporary accommodation. The proposed amendment suffers from a similar problem today because it is based on whether the space is used for housing. Although the proposal remembers rental housing, it does not exclude sublease housing from the subject of the fee. There is no need to shift efficiency to January 1, 2021, because if the bill is approved at this meeting, municipalities will have sufficient time to issue generally binding decrees. A shift of efficiency would therefore put an unnecessary one year away from solving problems in cities where flats are currently used for short-term accommodation, especially for tourists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and I ask Senator Kratochvíle to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u4	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice evening. Mr President, honourable Members, the bill amending Act No. 565/1990 Coll., on Local Fees, as amended, discussed the Senate at its 10th meeting held on 24 July 2019 and 194th. The resolution returns it back to the Chamber of Deputies with a total of eight amendments. The reason behind the Senate's adoption of amendments is to try to improve this amendment. Let me briefly sum up all the amendments adopted by the Senate. The first amendment proposes in Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))))))) (v)))))))))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1 the words "sustaining not more than 60 consecutive calendar The Senate is conducted by the attempt to cancel the fees of staying in the hostels if it lasts longer than 60 days. This fee is often a very important income of municipalities and is also one of the possible measures to regulate the number of accommodation capacities in residential hotels. In fact, if the long-term accommodation fee had been abolished in the hostels, as proposed by the Chamber of Deputies in the wording of the Act, the rate of collection of residence fees would have fallen enough in a number of cities and municipalities that the funds collected for the stay charge would not cover the costs associated with its selection, especially for foreign workers, where there would have been an absurd situation that these accommodations would, on the one hand, generate a number of costs for a municipality or a city such as waste, infrastructure, security, but, on the other hand, no income would have flowed from their stay to the municipal budget. The second amendment to the Senate proposes in Article 2 (2) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) As amended by § 3b para. 1 in the form proposed by the Chamber of Deputies, as opposed to the current regulation, distinguishes the exemption from the charges on persons who are prescribed comprehensive spa rehabilitation care. These people come to the spa for the so-called cross, which means they have a spa stay fully covered by public health insurance, as shown by practice such as Priessnitz Spa Jeseník, Františkovy Lázně, Konstantinové Lázně, Trebon, Darkov and so on. The vast majority of clients have spent their stay in the spa mostly in the comprehensive rehabilitation care regime. However, directly from local charges, they help the municipal budget to cope with direct costs which are objectively linked to the increased number of rapists, park area treatment, waste, cultural programs. The proposed parliamentary text would put spa care at a disadvantage compared to the current situation. This is because an adjustment was proposed in § 3b para. 1 (e) and the fee The Senate proposes to maintain. The third amendment to the Senate is then only related legislative technical regulation. The fourth amendment proposed by the Senate in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 point 12 § 3d increase the maximum possible amount of the stay fee from 21 CZK to 50 CZK. The Senate thus responds to the requirement that the amount of the fee be better in line with the costs associated with the increased number of visitors to the municipality. The fifth amendment relates to the fourth amendment and proposes in Article 4 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 point 12 in § 3d, on the other hand, for longer stays, provide that the amount of the stay fees will be up to 6 CZK. On the contrary, for longer stays, the Senate takes the view that a higher payment of the fee would already be a burden for the taxpayer when staying longer. [[18.10 hours]] The sixth amendment of the Senate is related to the fourth and fifth amendments and proposes to delete the excess point 13 and, of course, to renumber the following points accordingly. It is therefore basically a legislative technical modification and a correction of the error. The seventh amendment to the Senate is also a correction of a legislative technical error, where the adjustment is acceptable and is already proposed in the second sentence, not the first, so once again only a correction of the error. The eighth amendment to the Senate proposes that the whole amendment should not take effect until 1 January 2021. This proposal was made on the Senate Constitutional and Legal Committee on the basis of a request from the Ministry of Finance. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my conviction that the Chamber of Deputies will consider the amendments to the Senate to be beneficial and approve the bill tabled in the wording of these proposals. I would also like to add that this amendment has the support of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and Association of Spa Places. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u5	I thank the Senator and ask before I open the debate whether he is interested in commenting on the Senate's amendments to the Committee on Guarantee, which was the Committee on Budgets. Mr. Onderka is not interested. Or the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Kovářová? He's not interested either. So I'm opening up a debate. Mr Klaus is the first and only member of the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u6	First of all, I apologize for coming to talk so often. This is not because I would like to listen to myself, but there are few of us here, and my colleague Majerová focuses more on school topics, gender and others, so I have to talk on this subject. We will not support either version, namely because local charges are also taxes that are increasing with this measure, and we are against it. Period. Next I'll tell you a personal experience from our village. Local small businessmen are strictly against it, because it will make it more expensive when it is introduced, people holiday, often even a healthy stay, often even poorer families in the off-season. When I talked to the mayor about it, because, of course, the mayors are mostly for it, just like the finance secretary is for it when taxes are rising, the mayor told me this: the vast majority of people with fees fix, and that he would personally welcome the introduction of a bed-breaker, so that in short, the tax, the local fee was actually collected, and not that four honest people are paying it, and the others are hiding it. So the situation, I'd say, is a little more complicated than we're looking at here in the House. In any case, we will not support the Senate's proposal for Tricolore, because it is still illegiblely tangled with crossmen and non-crossmen and 15 things are already being dealt with at once, and we will not support the House's proposal because it increases taxes, in this case local taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u7	Thank you. I have no further application for the debate. Anyone from the scene, please? He's reporting. Mr. Juránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u8	Thank you. I just want to say technically that the Senate has corrected the mistakes that are in this law. And just as far as the crossmen are concerned, which is actually the only point that is complicated, so I just want to say that, in a three-week stay, the fee that the Senate proposed would have been CZK 126 for that particular person in three weeks, because the Senate treated it with the very amendment No. 5. That means, I just want to say that this proposal by the Senate, which is supported by the Union of Cities and Municipalities and also by the Association of Spa Cities, this proposal improves the offer and has come to an end with the crossworders that have been mentioned here by the Minister. That is why I am simply stating for the KDU-ČSL club that we will vote for the Senate version of the law, and if it does not pass, we will vote because we consider it right, even for the version that was in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-003-004.u9	Thank you. Is there another application for discussion? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Interested in the final words? Madam Secretary interested? He's not interested. Mr. Senator? He's not interested either. I therefore call on Members who are not present in the Chamber and we can proceed to the vote. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. we need the approval of an absolute majority of Members present to resolution. I'm hearing an application for check-out. I've checked you all out, please log in with your voting cards again. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 565/1990 Coll., on Local Fees, as amended, pursuant to the House's Press 286/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the Chamber's Press 286/9.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 161 Members registered, for 42, versus 86. We have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will now vote again under Section 97, paragraph. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 101 Members are needed to adopt this resolution, i.e. an absolute majority of all Members. The number we need is set. So I can make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 565/1990 Coll., on Local Charges, as amended, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to the Parliamentary Press 286/8.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 166 Members signed in for 118, versus 20. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Senator. Now we're going to look at point number
