ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u1	9. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - first reading We interrupted the debate on this point on 9 July in the general debate. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Volný, take the seats at the rapporteur's table. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate, in which I have Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík signed up at the moment, but Mr Zbyněk Stanjuru's chairman of the ODS MP's club Zbyněk Stanjura has been interrupted. So I give you my word if you're interested in continuing your interrupted performance. So the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. I only really missed two sentences last night. So I'm gonna say the last one and the other two sentences, and that's it for now in general. I wanted to tell the Minister in that final paragraph that if the bill contained only an adjustment to real estate tax, that is to say a reduction in tax, or an exemption for landscape elements, and it contained only income tax exemptions except municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities only for the regions and the state that there would be no problem with that. But since the proposal concerns merely tax increases, I would just like to remind you that our club has proposed to reject this bill. At the same time, if one of the colleagues proposed a re-evaluation, we would also support this proposal for a re-evaluation in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u3	Another in the general debate is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. I don't have anyone else logged in yet. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to one more problematic aspect of the law, and that is how gambling taxation is increased, where, paradoxically, the slot machines remain at the same rate. So the toughest gamble is left in the current state, while the other, for example, lotteries, are increasing. So from a user's point of view, it's actually bigger... it will be directed to people moving from lottery to hard gambling, which is completely absurd from an adictological point of view. Actually, we're putting the lottery against the vending machines at a disadvantage in order to shift the rates. This is one thing. [[14.40 hours]] The second thing about increasing tobacco taxation, so we are quite absurdly increasing taxation even for those substitutes where we have only recently introduced it, and logically those substitutes, which are generally healthier for smokers, where the biggest problem of smoking is tar, so we are also taxing and, in turn, increasing the difficulty of switching from tar to tobacco smoking in a less harmful way. So I wanted to draw attention to these two other problems. And I propose that this press be interrupted by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u5	Now, we have a procedural motion to interrupt this press by the end of the day. So we should vote on this immediately. [[Messenger. The Faltynek from the bench asks the chairman to call his colleagues.]] I've got an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna check you all out. I'm gonna sing. So I'm going to repeat once again what we're going to vote on. Mr Ferjenčík proposes to suspend the discussion of this press by the end of the day. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 59, 144 Members registered, for 68, against 76. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue the general debate. Mr Vojtěch Munzar has the floor and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I am aware that I have already spoken on this point yesterday, and I would not have performed today if I had not read on social networks the outputs that the ministers of this government are giving us...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u7	Then I ask you to remain calm so that the Member may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u8	Thank you. With Minister Vojtěch, I read an interesting tweet about the dependence of our citizens on alcohol and that this tax increase is a step in the right direction and that the government is acting and acting. I would ask the members of the government not to spread this new fake news that you are presenting this proposal to reduce alcohol consumption, smoking, alcohol dependence and so on, because it is really only one motivation on your part, and that is raising taxes, but gluing holes in the budget. You're turning the de facto cause and effect here. Even in the explanatory report on this proposal, it is written by the Ministry of Finance that this will lead to a slight reduction in demand for alcohol and smoking. So please don't spread this fake news anymore. This motivation of yours is indeed woven into the name of this press and into the name of the bill that amends certain tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues. If you come up with some taxes being reduced, other taxes being reduced, we could discuss it, and I would also believe you want to reduce demand for addictive substances. However, this is not really the case. You even deny what you have written in the government's programming statement...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u9	Then I must ask you once again to calm down so that the Member may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u10	Thank you. I'll do it again. You even deny with this approach what you have written in your own programming statement by the government, where you talk about tax neutrality, virtually. on the principle of fiscal neutrality. In fact, you only use that principle if someone else wants to cut taxes. Then you call for the principle of fiscal neutrality so that you do not have a fall in the revenue of the budget. If you want to raise taxes, you forget this principle very quickly. Let me give you an example. I have intersected the Minister on the fee for the deposit proposal contained in this tax package, as well as the tax on the acquisition of the property. She said to me here that - I quote it: "So let's stick to it, and I don't think we're gonna figure that out right now, let's put it in a complete change and concept of property taxes. Even from the point of view of the various exemptions that we have on income tax etc. That would be fair. But to rip out this minus 13 billion and blame us for a fee that hasn't been changed for years, and those actions have grown diametrically there, the number of participants that the state will get a few tens of millions, that's just completely out of proportion." I'm quoting it here so you can see what the difference is. When we call for the abolition of the real estate tax, the Minister argues with a fall in the revenue of the budget, and suddenly forgets the principle of fiscal neutrality when he presents us with the tax package itself, which is the only objective: to increase some taxes and increase the cost of the purchase of own housing through the administrative charge of the deposit proposal and the increase in living costs through the abolition of the gas tax exemption for domestic boiler rooms. I have to say, and I said it here yesterday, that the procedure of this government regarding housing is very Macesque, because it constantly complicates and makes it more expensive to buy its own housing. At the same time, he refuses to cancel the real estate tax, and he also offers us a proposal to increase this administrative fee, a proposal for a deposit, and he also presents us with a proposal for an amendment to the CNB Act, which will only lead to further tightening of mortgages, and this complicates access to our own housing. It drives many people away from buying their own housing into rents and thus increases demand for rents. The rents are thus increasing. The cost of living for housing is increasing, and unfortunately, you will not be able to catch up with raising pensions. Now you're canceling, or you want to cancel the gas exemption for the home boiler rooms, which will achieve, this measure, negatively to the standard of living of 400,000 households. And perhaps, according to the explanatory report itself, the proposed abolition of the exemption will be the most likely to affect low-income population groups. And then, when you take these steps, you wonder that the pressure on the social system is constantly increasing. Next thing I know, it's the insurance companies. I already said it here yesterday. You're touching the reserves that insurance companies have been making for a long time. It's actually a punishment for responsible conduct. But it is also a signal from the market that creating reserves in the Czech economy does not pay off. Such signals of an unstable business environment in an economy as open as ours, with such a share of foreign capital, will only lead to an accelerated capital drain using dividends from the Czech Republic. It's a market signal. It is a signal to investors that money on reserves is not protected from the covetousness of the state in any way. Today, they're insurance reserves. But who's next when he misses the budget again? Who's next? Banks, companies and their reserves, or even households and their savings? So, first of all, it's a dangerous precedent for me for the future. Secondly, it is clearly a demotivative tool for creating any reserves and savings. And as we know, the level of private savings determines the level of investment in the economy. But why should the government abstain from economic principles? Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance is currently operating primarily as an accountant and only has accounting access to the budget. You've resigned long ago to some real fiscal policy. And I'm going to end my short performance by sighing that the RIA has not been processed into such an important law. I think the RIA should be processed. That's why I'm putting in motion to interrupt this press until the RIA is processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u11	So, I've noted your procedural proposal. So I'm gonna go on. Mr Munzar proposes to suspend the hearing until the RIA is processed. So I'm gonna reengage so we can proceed to the vote. Request for check-out, so I'm signing you all out, sign up with your voting cards. I think we'll be able to take a vote. [[14.50 hours]] I'm just gonna do it again. Mr Vojtěch Munzar proposes to suspend the discussion of this press into the processing of the RIA. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 60, 145 Members registered, for 63, against 81. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue with the general debate in which I have Mr Jan Skopeček signed up. Now there's a point of fact. The Member will be gallant, so Mrs Procházková, although I have already said his name. Thank you. And your two minutes, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u12	Thank you very much, hello. I just have a comment on my predecessor, Mr Munzar, through the President. I'd like to ask you one thing. Please don't tell us where to say anything, not to us Members, not to our ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u13	I will now ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech in the general debate and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u14	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was performing quite extensively yesterday in the afternoon, so I'm just going to limit myself to what I want to keep it from happening after yesterday's debate. I would like to repeat two questions to the Minister and, at the same time, ask her to respond to those questions that have been raised here yesterday in the debate, not in the final words, so that we can respond to it. My questions to her were twofold. I asked why, in the explanatory memorandum, she used the argument of real wages and inflation to increase excise duties, and she heard it or did not respect it when we proposed an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer's income tax. Because the logic, if you use the logic of increasing real income and inflation in order to increase excise duties, the same logic should also apply to the increase in basic discounts. Because when it doesn't increase, it actually increases the real tax burden of taxpayers. Then I wanted to explain to the government, and that is actually why I proposed a refusal at first reading to explain to us, Minister and Minister of Health, your contradiction, when the Minister says that this increase in excise duty will lead to a decline in alcohol consumption, and you argue that this will lead to an increase in tax revenue in the budget of a relatively high level. So I want to explain this contradiction between two members of the same government. In my opinion, the argument is dichotomous and it is not possible to use both arguments at once. And then the last thing. Once again, call on colleagues and members of the ANO movement not to be fooled. Indeed, there are no health aspects that this government would like to address. The aim is really just to fill in the additional revenue of the state budget so that the Ministry of Finance and the entire government can redistribute more. The argument is simple. Take a look at the explanatory note of the increase in revenue from this law. When you look, the largest collection, the biggest increase in income, is found in the taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies. We can certainly agree that if we tax the technical reserves of insurance companies, the consumption of alcohol or cigarettes in the Czech Republic will certainly not decrease. And if the law is primarily about income from taxing those technical provisions, then arguing here with dominant health aspects is simply false, misleading and it is not only fair to Members but also to the public. The fact that you're reducing the stability of the financial system, the additional tax on reserves, I don't have to say at all. I think that a number of MEPs and the ANO movement, the coalition, ran with the fact that they do not want to raise taxes. This tax package is further increasing. Think again about whether you want to keep your election vows or not. I can calm you down, you're already champions of the size of the tax burden. Madam Secretary is a champion of finance ministers. No one has ever been able to impose higher taxes on Czech taxpayers, whether citizens or companies, as Minister Schillerová. So, Madam Secretary, you're already the champion of the amount of tax burden today, and it's pointless to continue this competition. You'll barely get caught up. You've outdone both right and left governments. Nobody's gonna take that medal away from you. Thanks to you, we have historically the highest taxes. Let's not raise them any further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u15	That was Mr. MP Skopeček. I will now ask Mr Jiří Kobza to speak and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, I listened very carefully to the speech by the Minister of Health, who supplied us with a lot of data on how much alcohol is to be drunk in the Czech Republic and how it is necessary to increase the price in order to reduce this consumption. As you probably know - to illustrate this circumstance - I spent eleven years in a country where absolute prohibition applies, and I can tell you from my own experience that it had absolutely no effect on the reduction of alcohol consumption. The only thing that happened is that, of course, the black market alcohol, because it was not taxed so draconically, was significantly cheaper and more affordable. It is clear that the budget for 2019 has a problem. Clearly, with the economy slowing down, it is clear that it will not be able to fill the revenue component. And it's quite understandable that the government is looking for ways to replace this file somewhere else. The ways are different. Raising taxes, extending the use of already draconian fines for some incorrect filling out of some form, which will certainly invent on Financial Administration or simply someone else to happen to tradesmen, and especially those who have to do everything themselves, could not learn. It is also possible to borrow for this. But to my great surprise, there wasn't the fourth way that the government would start saving money, and that it would start to wonder where to cut expenses that aren't necessarily necessary. So I would lean more towards the fourth way, and I would like to ask the Minister if they were to think more about reducing the expenditure component than how to sever citizens even more so as to fill the bleeding or insufficient revenue component. Because, for example, applying a flat-rate tax to small businesses, which are over a million, would save a huge control apparatus. And that would be worth it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u17	I will now read one apology. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes between 14.30 and 15.45 for reasons of work. Next and so far the last application - Mr. Petr Bendl will appear. If I'm not mistaken, your premiere after a certain pause, so to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u18	Thank you. As a two-time elected Member to this House within one parliamentary term. It's probably my premiere. Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I won't be long. But I know from experience that ministers often avoid answering questions within a normal debate, as they risk being asked by us who do not have the right to speak. And I am not quite sure that the Minister will have the courage to answer in particular the questions that Zbyněk Stanjura, our colleague, has asked her here. 'Cause I think it's serious, and I want to make it clear that, knowing that the government majority is already waiting for us to finish this debate and get it off the table and we're going to do something else. [[15.00 hours]] But there were some things that you should at least be interested in, because, as mentioned here, this law does not have the current RIA, it does not have a processed impact on the business environment, the RIA is used in 2015. A colleague of Stanjura quoted here, for those of you who take your work seriously, it could not have been for nothing, that it does not count as anything, that it does not really matter what it says. Maybe you should really be interested in the effects, just so you know what's going to happen to you. In the area of agriculture, when you touch the reserves of insurance companies, and the Czech National Bank has announced here in the framework of a commentary procedure that there will be, or may be, damage to the insurance market - we are in a situation in the area of agriculture when we are on the brink of a major crisis. Those of you who are in this know that this catastrophic drought, which is here, can damage literally and to the letter of the Czech agricultural and food industry and that it is difficult to insure yourself in the field of agriculture, even there are risks that are called. The state tries to motivate farmers to insure themselves and to do better with those who insure themselves, because they themselves are interested in protecting their business from potential risks, if they do so, the State helps them more and motivates them to do so. The moment you touch the sources of the insurance companies, it's probably gonna mean something, it's gonna do something on the market. And I would really like to know what it will do in the situation of farmers who are interested in insurance. Will that mean a price increase in the situation they're in? Will that mean a lower level of insurance? Maybe it doesn't mean anything. Perhaps the Czech National Bank is wrong when it says or when it announced this comment - as I understand it has not been completely settled, or it has been dealt with in a way that has been left out. You need to know that there's a risk here, and that's why I wanted to tell you here. I would certainly ask the Minister, however this vote will turn out today, to give us information about the negative effects - current information - about the negative effects of the law on the business environment, or at least to inform us about it, so that we can be able, even you who will happily bear the greatest responsibility, know where you have stepped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u19	That was Mr. Petr Bendl. At this point, I don't have any - so, we do. Mr Ferjenčík - factual or general? In general? Okay. You're the only one, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was hoping the Minister would join the general debate to answer the questions. Unfortunately, he's not going to. I'm gonna ask two more questions, and I'm hoping they'll answer them at least in the final word. The first question is why she's proposing an increase in taxes when she promised she wouldn't raise them. That's the first, basic question. And the second question is how will the state budget be prepared to be dropped by about 10 billion as a result of this law. CZK after 2022, how it prepares the budget for this fall. Because I find it extremely unfair to the future governments that the government will now use the insurance reserves in a one-off tax year 2021, and then a significant decline awaits the next government, because insurance companies will not only have those reserves that would be taxed, but above all, they will have a much lower profit, because they will have to compensate for the taxes now paid. By the time we take their year's yield, they'll have to save up logically. So I'm wondering how they're going to make a budget for this situation, when future governments are losing the money they're about to spend now. And I don't have any indication that there's going to be a one-off investment going on right now that would require cover from these sources. Instead, it's normally put into ordinary expenses. That seems extremely irresponsible to me. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u21	I still have a general debate - Mr Stanislav Juránek reporting to us. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u22	Mr President, Madam Secretary and all other colleagues, I would like to say one reason why it would be a good idea to complete this matter, based on the experience that I alone do not have, it is certainly still the least of my fellow captains, or here I see it through the President-in-Office of the capital city of Prague, and of course there are current captains. And I would like to point out that it is very good that we look at insurance companies in the same way that, at the moment, when we decided to put the National Property Fund in the budget, we no longer have the reserve to cover all the elements that would arise in the event of floods such as those in 2002 and 2006. I don't exactly have the calculation, but I think it would be very good if this calculation were to be done absolutely definitely, even if this goes to second reading, I strongly recommend this and I will definitely go in that direction. Because the moment insurance companies don't have sufficient reserves in the future, this issue here will be covered by the state budget. There are two ways, of course. We can approve this here, we can go through this tax route, but then we have to have this thing accounted for in every budget that we will approve in the future. My experience is that the amount is large, that it touches the budget, and so I ask that we here no matter how we proceed with this tax package, so that we look very, very closely at the insurance companies. Because in those other floods that were no longer so large, most of the costs that had been affected by the floods have been resolved not from the state budget, but through insurance companies. This issue is quite complex because I have met with two of these major floods, and because at that time the European Union has helped us with its subsidies to eliminate these floods, which will no longer help us according to the system in which we are currently going, so I ask that this matter be really calculated here. [[Consequences]] Therefore, I also say for this reason that it is good for this package to be put to work and that it should be presented subsequently with these finished things. Of course, the second option is that this issue will be dealt with in second reading. However, I am actually calling here, Madam Secretary, for this matter to be well calculated, and I want to say that neither in the past nor in the present have all insurance companies been able to meet and meet all the requirements arising from these emergencies. I'll go back to the fact that it may seem dry at this point. But drought and floods are exactly the things that complement each other, because the current situation, which is, leads to the fact that there will be torrential rains, or another situation that will cause floods on one side. That means we don't let the drought lull us into thinking that this situation could happen here. The two major floods occurred over four years, 2002 and 2006. There's nothing faster than forgetting what happened in those floods. Before that, there was a flood in 1997 - and in 2002, no one remembered it, and suddenly everyone was surprised that there was a great flood again. [[15.10 hours]] I'm glad those floods are not currently occurring on this scale, but I'm very much asking that we count on this reserve here. And once again, the solution is twofold. Either we count and leave a certain amount of power and leave it to insurance companies, or the other part, that we will have to count on this in the large and large scale of the budget. In both cases this matter, because I personally experienced it immediately in the South Moravian Region, I have experienced it with my fellow captains, whom it has touched, so I consider this to be so important that I will remind you both in this tax package and in the next year's budget. I thank you for your attention and stress again, from this point of view, I think it would be good to leave this issue to the tax package for work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u23	Your performance brought up two factual points. So Mr Dominik Feri will be the first to speak and Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, when we were talking about floods, the Minister is a lawyer, which means he knows he's still holding 20 percent of the bar tab. The flood tax, even if it's not part of her gesture...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u25	I'm gonna ask you to calm down, because it's true there's a higher level of noise. So that the Member can express himself. There you go. I'll set your time, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Even if it doesn't belong to her gesture, she can consult with the Minister of Justice and help her prepare the decree and set the conditions as they should be. In any case, I do not think that such a fundamental change, the tax package, should be discussed, even if only to discuss, in such turbulent political situations, and therefore I propose that we interrupt until the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u27	So you're proposing an interruption until the next meeting. Okay. It's your proposal. So I'll check you out, please sign in with my voting cards again. I'd prefer to engage, but we're in sufficient numbers here. We'll wait one more second to see if anyone comes in. Yes, so I think we know what we're going to vote on. Mr Feri proposes an interruption to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 61, 173 Members are enrolled, for 80, against 91. The motion was denied. Mr Petr Bendl is also reporting with a factual remark in the general debate and Mr Stanislav Juránek will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u28	Thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, wanted to tell Mr Juránek that he was wrong. The government doesn't take the money, the 10 or 11 billion, to return it in some form to those who could insure themselves and fail to insure themselves, or didn't get the insurance. They want to spend the money on the state budget. It's as simple as that. And all those who were around the floods in 2002 or even in 1997, among whom I belonged, I just want to remind them that the damage caused by the floods is many times lower than the damage caused by the drought. Many times lower. If you look at how much the Czech Republic cost, or the finance we used from the European Union, municipal and regional money etc., and you count it together, add at least zero and then you can talk about something like that. So if something like this comes up, I'm pretty sure that 10 billion isn't gonna be enough. It's just gonna be a drop in the sea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u29	Another, so far the last application for a factual remark by Mr Stanislav Juránek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u30	I am not here to argue with your colleague Bendl, but I want to add one of my proposals that was made last time. I suggested there might be a 30-day extension, but I didn't discuss it with the Ministry and the petitioner, i.e. I propose an extension of 20 days, and it is precisely for us to be able to trace all the elements relating to the individualities contained in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u31	Yes, I'm reflecting on your proposal, which I've already noted and corrected. I will now look around the hall to see if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the general debate. I see no one, so I conclude the general debate and ask whether the applicant's interest is in the final word or the rapporteur, if he is interested too. The MP isn't interested, so Madam Secretary, it's your solo. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for getting me to express myself, to sum up, to conclude on purpose, because I wanted to hear all your comments. Please allow me to set the record straight in a completely factual and technical manner, as is the case with insurance reserves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u33	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can express herself. Calm down, please. If you're not discussing matters related to this press, please discuss them in the lobby. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u34	To get this right, we're going into history. It was in my head, why it bothered me so much. And I'll tell you what's going on. I'll tell you how it really is by the law. I'll tell you as a guy who's been doing 25 years in taxes. When the Reserve Act was adopted in 1993, there was a limit for insurance companies that the reserve created must not exceed 60 per cent of the prescribed insurance. So it was not possible to create reserves as tax-efficient please. No one's stopping insurance companies from making up their reserves any way they want. But we want a limit on tax-efficient reserves like any other legal person in this country. Do we understand each other? Like banks like others, other institutions. Why does the sector have one such advantage? Why can he create a reserve as big as he wants, thereby reducing the tax base and putting down the tax in time according to his reasoning? No one here has that, and it wasn't in this country when the Reserve Act was adopted. And then I found it yesterday. I didn't find it until yesterday. By March 2000, the limit really existed, and then it was abolished...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u35	I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down so the secretary can express herself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u36	Then it was cancelled on the basis of the amendment by the Member at the time, I do not know him, I will state his name, I have indeed looked it up from the relevant sources, Mr Suchánek. Supposedly, he was under ODS. So basically, we've had an exceptional sector since then. So basically you close the policy, for example. 500 crowns a month, and against that, the insurance company can make a reserve according to its consideration, an accounting reserve, as they think it could be the value of a bad event. I'm saying this to you in general, clearly for those who aren't moving in. But you're going to take that as tax-deductible, tax-deductible. So we want one thing - we want them to make the reserves next time just like any other legal entity. Whether they have a minimum, as Solvency II says, then whether they make them big or as big as they want, but in any case no longer as tax-recognizable. So I understand, Prime Minister Kalousek, that the subject was coming back. It really pissed those officials off at the Treasury Department. You said it right yesterday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u37	I would ask you to address the Members only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u38	I don't have to, I can go straight. I can do it directly. [[Rush in the hall.]] I can do it directly, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u39	Okay. It is true that Members only directly, but then sometimes things go wrong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u40	I honor you all very, very much. I wouldn't dare break it. [[- Okay.]] That's the third time I've said it here. Rules of procedure. That means, it pissed off those Treasury officials, it was coming back, they ran into a minister who just didn't defend any sector. And that's me. That is why this proposal is. So please, let's tell the truth. This is not a sectoral tax. The result is that insurance companies will not simply move or postpone taxation anymore. This means that it is not true that it would have no meaning without changing rates. On the contrary. Take it, if other entrepreneurs had the opportunity to postpone their own tax later, I think each of them would do so. But they, unfortunately for them, and insurance companies, thankfully for them, as it follows from yesterday's debate, just don't have that option. So please, let's call these things the right names and the truth. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The fact that it fell here yesterday that the government is actually creating revenue for itself here one-time. If you've been studying, and I said it here yesterday in the opening word, I'll do it again. It's in a government statement. It's on my desk. I'll lend any one of you. That means the insurance company knows for a year and a half. Now it's in the legislative process, the package, it's going to be effective 2021, and after the debate with them - and I'm going to give the exact dates when I met with them, or my deputy with his team, I got it here, I pulled it out yesterday - so I actually decided to break it down to 2021, 2022 after the debate. When's the election? 2021. You're going to win the election, you're saying it every day in the media, so I guess this government isn't planning it for itself. If it's 2021, 2022, right? Plus, it doesn't affect all the insurance companies. It touches the insurance companies that really, and they're some of the big insurance companies, and I've talked to them, so I know they're worried about what they've really created. And I'm saying, it's not a sectoral tax, no matter what reserves they make, but let there be a limit for the future, they just put that tax away anyway. So we say, in some time, pay her back, and then everyone make her up the same way. This means, as a tax-recognizable minimum, as the European Solvency II Directive says, and as they approach this in other countries of the European Union. I will also take the liberty of following the letter sent by the Czech Insurance Association, quoted here yesterday by President Stanjura, that the letter states in one part that "if the new regulation is adopted, there will be a reduction in the creation of reserves, i.e. that the insurance companies will not be motivated to do so." I quote from the letter. So this is essentially an admission that insurance reserves are not made solely and only on the basis of objective indicators and insurance mathematical models, as was mentioned here yesterday all afternoon, but tax planning also plays an important role in this direction. He's clearly involved. This means that the firm, given and constant rules of insurance mathematics, as was the case here yesterday, which was mentioned by President Stanjura, will probably not be firm again, or they will enter beyond the interest of insured persons and the stability of the financial market still the current advantage of creating or disbanding the tax reserve following the development of rates and the amount of free liquidity currently held by the insurance undertaking. This is exactly why the adjustment is being made. This is to prevent the transfer of profits and the possibility of deferring tax payments that a normal businessman, a normal legal person, or a bank can't create. [[raised voice]] And all of this, of course, results in this sector paying 2.6 billion per tax per year in the long term. So that gives me a clear conclusion. Therefore, if the opening theory of insurance companies applies that their reserves are calculated objectively, on the principle of insurance mathematics, then their correction should not be due to taxation. Then it can't have any effect on anything. About the meetings. I have dealt with representatives of insurance companies both within and outside the framework of the commentary procedure. 29 5. 2019, another four meetings between April and today was held by my Director of Taxation and Customs with my team and I conducted a number of informal interviews with them because I meet them at various conferences or seminars. Otherwise, I'd like to say, this is where it looked like they were going to make it out in the form of dividends, that they were going to raise the premium. There's not a single reason in light of what I just said to make insurance more expensive. Unless they use it as an excuse. And dividends, let them make dividends if they're due to a properly taxed profit. I never questioned on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies that it would not be okay. On the contrary, I patiently explain to various trade unionists, various associations, conferences, that it is okay and in accordance with the law to make dividends from properly taxed profits in the Czech Republic. On the contrary, the dividend directive exempts between legal entities these dividends, and if it is paid to natural persons, there is a 15% withholding tax, if it is to third countries, there is 35 percent. So it's all right if it's properly taxed, but of course this tax has been deferred, accumulated, postponed in time, because those reserves were created in this way, but I repeat, only until March 2000. Before that, there was a limit, and we want to get back to that order, which means putting it in a state that just makes sense. This means let reserves be formed, but not unlimitedly as tax-efficient. That's all. And we've been putting together for almost five years. Consumer taxes. I've said a lot of things here in the opening words. I will not repeat myself, and I will respond as much as possible to the questions that have fallen here. We never said it wouldn't bring anything into collection. We're never about it, you even have it in all the government materials you quoted, we have it in that name that many of you listed here. And why not? Yesterday, you were clearly told by the Minister of Health about the social consequences associated with the consequences of smoking, the consequences of drinking hard alcohol and the consequences of gambling. He was talking about a total of about 180 billion, 160 - 15. So what the state gets is a drop in the sea. And that the state will involve it in the income? That he's gonna use it on the priorities the government has? What's wrong with that? You approved your pensions this morning, you voted, if I read correctly, everyone sitting here, you all raised your hands for them. The average pension - 900 crowns, just for your information, will mean an extra 37 billion next year. The deficit is 40. So what's wrong with that? When we're done with this point, we'll be discussing the parental contribution. I'll bet my shoes, and I'll leave them here, you'll all raise your hand for him, just like you're sitting here. So please be honest. Be honest. It fell here, Mr. Kalousek spoke to calculate the collection. Of course, the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance include restrictions on consumption. Some long-term trends are being followed here, and that's what we're counting on. So for alcohol, the assumption of a decrease in official consumption is about three percent, but this is the number for total consumption. This means that it must not be forgotten that a significant proportion of those who consume alcohol is also made up of foreign nationals...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u41	I have to ask you once more for peace. Madam Secretary is right that the noise level has really increased here. I want to ask you again, for the third time, whether you would discuss matters unrelated to this press outside the Chamber. Otherwise, I would really have to approach the unpleasant thing that I would have to appoint Members to cancel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u42	So we expect that the reduction will, of course, be more acute in part of Czech consumers. Mrs Kovářová spoke about the taxation of beer and wine. Of course it also sounded from the Minister of Health's mouth, I'm not gonna cover it up. The reason why we did not agree to increase the excise duty on beer and wine is as follows. With wine is that we would be the only country from the surrounding countries that would have excise duty on wine, I think Poland still has it for quiet wine, i.e. We would put our winemakers at a disadvantage and make every small winemaker have to keep a tax warehouse. This is something that we did not want to do for these reasons after the debate. Beers, because we were based on the fact that even countries that are the largest beer consumers are Germany, Poland, are still subject to an excise duty higher than in the Czech Republic. Those were the crucial reasons why we didn't do it. Otherwise, of course, I was telling the lady - I told her yesterday, so she wouldn't be nervous, that I'm talking to her now that she's not here - let her make an amendment, have her propose an increase in excise duty and conduct this debate and, if necessary, defend her. And we will lead it legitimately on the floor of the budget committee and other committees, perhaps. also here at the plenary, where this Chamber of Deputies will order an amendment for discussion. Gambling tax and raising it. This is a classic example, a classic example of the fact that in 2015 the Ministry of Finance prepared and enforced the Act on Gambling and Gaming Tax and the impacts are such that it reduced gambling. We were never in favour of a ban on gambling, which would really throw this area into the grey zone, but we were in favour of clear restrictive measures and we have hard numbers. I presented them x-times, last time in Bohnice at a press conference, where I presented numbers when we had about 7.5 thousand establishments in 2012, today we have 1,500. We had over 6,000 quiz mats of different, maybe a bigger number even. We had casinos in the city centers, gambling halls. We don't have many cities today. In Prague 2 - is Mrs. Mayor Černochová sitting here, if I say so, is it Prague 2? - we don't have a playroom there today, either. Because we rely on the Constitutional Court's view that we should respect the view of ammunition, their decrees. That means if the ammunition doesn't want a gambling room on its territory, we just won't allow it. We've got a whole series of adictological brakes. We have in this law that there are places where there will be no gambling rooms, such as schools, such as these facilities. And the result? We are not a casino in the heart of Europe. Why didn't it go sooner? But it's never too late. I was approached here yesterday by opposition Members, as is the case with the IT system, with the AISG and these things. It's true, and I'm not gonna pretend that the Treasury has been delayed in the past, that we've been there -- and I'm not gonna do my dirty laundry here -- we're gonna do our own laundry at the Ministry -- various organizational problems. But at this point, I'm going to tell you what he's like. On 13 December 2017, I became Minister, I was first appointed to the first Babiš government, Minister of Finance, and we competed in April 2018, the complete contract for the delivery of the administrative supervision part of AISG was then signed in 2018. It's not that simple, I'm not complaining, but we have a signed contract and we're working on it. Today we have basically a notified decree, the legal part of AISG, i.e. support for the authorisation, control and supervisory processes of the public administration, Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration - expected to start in early 2020. Surveillance section, i.e. monitoring compliance with the legal obligations of operators, supporting the registration of players, keeping the register of persons excluded from gambling - we start in mid 2020. As for the analytical module AISG, which allows the collection of gaming and financial data from gambling operators, where the output is reports and analyses, so the sharp operation was started 1. 6. 2019, i.e. a month ago. Just so I can provide you with complete information. There were many, many performances that we committed not to raise taxes, that we had it in a government statement. I'm not questioning it at all, absolutely not. I would like to say that raising excise taxes as a result of increasing the incomes of the population - and you know that the basic argument was that in ten years the average wage increased by 45 per cent - is not entirely identical to increasing other fixed elements in the legal order, whether it is tax elements or, for example, tax elements. the minimum wage, because in the case of excise duties, we are mainly talking about availability, i.e. how many boxes he can buy for his salary, how much alcohol, etc. He can get one. And the claim that was made here that it would not help, because an addict would rather reduce the income of his family than give up his bottle is not entirely correct, because yesterday, the Minister of Health said clearly here the study if you were here and listened to which measure ranks among one of the most effective but, of course, not the only one. He mentioned a number of programs and a number of other things - and these are the costs he was talking about - 100 billion, 60 billion, 15 billion. I'm saying it again. This means that this measure, as an economic instrument, is aimed primarily at the emergence of addiction, i.e. affect consumer choice. It sounded like it was gonna throw us into the gray zone. This country is disabled - well disabled, it always remains in the history of our country - so-called. a tragic methanol affair, followed by a number of very strict restrictive measures. These restrictive measures - and have been evaluated here for two years back in this Chamber of Deputies, I was already here in the role of Deputy Minister for Taxation and Customs - were adopted at that time also by the business public, which has touched the most, as necessary. Thanks to these measures, which we have put in place, which is being implemented and controlled by the Customs Administration, which has declared a number of not only those cameras and various controls, but has declared here the very expensive instruments we have - today it will be attached to the bottle of the device and you will immediately find out whether it is composed of what the alcohol is made of or not. These are all the things we use that led us to deal with once and for all after this affair. Today we have a hard alcohol of about 3% in the grey zone, which means that because of these measures, we do not actually have a grey zone. We're on the same page with cigarettes. Of course, by increasing the migration of the population between states, they can import a certain amount per person, so they bring some quantity here in this legal way, but it's not something that somehow restricts our market. [[15.40 hours]] I was very active this spring at the ECOFIN Council in the Romanian Presidency against the proposal of this Presidency to introduce the so-called 'EC'. domestic burning, and that's when I said: because we are a country affected by the stigma of the methanol affair, we are not gonna allow anything like that here and we are not gonna agree to anything like that. And even the fact that it would be an exception that the Czech Republic would not join in its legislation, yet I did not support it because I did not want to jeopardize that these exceptions would be possible in the surrounding states. There was a proposal for up to 100 grand per household. That means we are absolutely consistent in this policy. And the steps we take are not mutually exclusive. There's been a lot of falling things. Possibly to tax gambling prizes. I often hear here that we have the Income Tax Act, I have it all worked out in the table, calculated, full of exceptions. Every exception, and I'm talking about the Income Tax Act, is one huge policy that has been implemented by various governments there, as has been the history of this country. If we take them all out of the law and say it's impossible, we're talking about saving about 200 to 250 billion, just for your information. But I say frankly, it's impossible. If we allow ourselves, this government, one of those exemptions to abolish the liberation, and that's because it doesn't want to cancel it at all from scratch, but from 100 grand, it's an upheaval to the village. So let's just say what we want. And we're really talking about liberation over 100 grand and only in that part of profit. The last thing I would like to comment on is perhaps an increase in the fees for the deposit in the real estate register. This is the amendment we put into the tax package on the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture. He couldn't have been here today, so at this point, I'd like to quote from his media appearance on this proposal. It is a proposal that has repeatedly been proposed by the Czech Office of Land survey and cadastral, because this fee has not been adjusted since 2012. If I pass on inflation growth, significant cost increases and so on, it is particularly difficult that the new Civil Code has entered into force and efficiency since 2014, which has completely increased the procedural demands of the cadastral office. And the cadastral office states in its quote that this increase brings us to the level of Slovakia, where the legislation is identical. In Slovakia, EUR 66 is paid for the deposit in the cadastral today, which is about CZK 1,800, and of course we have other comparable neighbouring countries here. On the subject of tax increases, tax quotas, tax neutrality, those terms were very much worked out here yesterday. I personally see gambling taxes and excise duties differently. I see them in terms of financial law theory other than classic taxes, which we certainly do not want to increase on a large scale. It appeared here several times yesterday that the former ODS government proposed an increase in taxes for three years due to the crisis, and then proposed for 2014, I believe I am not mistaken, their abolition. Well, that's true, I have to say, seriously, that was in effective legislation. She just forgot to tell the governments that are coming after her in 2014, where to take it. Because there was no mention of this in the medium-term budgetary perspective, and the gap at that time, according to the prices at that time, was 40 billion. So the former government wasn't left, I wasn't in it, but I get it, nothing but to cancel this adjustment. But the former government didn't resign, not even the current one. And I'm still showing this table where from 2015 until 2019 all the tax cuts that have been made. [[presented graphically]] It's 98,8 billion in total. And another approved by this Chamber of Deputies as part of an amendment to the EET Act, where we have reduced VAT, is the brother of another 3.4 billion. So it's not true that this or the former government didn't lower taxes. On the contrary, the opposite is true. A compound tax quota. Mr. Skopeček and I have been arguing about this since I've been a secretary. I would like to say that if the tax quota increases, this is due to several factors. And that's a theory, that's not what I'm making up right now. One of them may be tax increases, but we know that taxes didn't increase here. You know that no taxes have increased here, but now I've told you that they have decreased. But the reason for the increase in the tax quota is also economic growth, and as an economist, the Member knows this very well, but also the fight against tax evasion. In other words, if more taxpayers pay taxes the way they should, then it will positively reflect on tax collection, that is, an increase in the tax quota, and without a correct analysis it simply cannot be said. And apart from discussing whether or not there has been an increase in taxes - clearly all of us know that we do not - I dare to correct the concept of tax neutrality. I think President Stanjura was working with him yesterday. So I'm going to say my concept of tax neutrality. Tax neutrality, as I see it, is primarily about reducing the distorting effect of taxes, which is typical of tax exemptions, as I spoke about them a moment ago, which often motivates economic behaviour. The classic, although not supported by tax, can be economically, environmentally, socially better. A typical distortion of fiscal neutrality is a certain selective exception which benefits only one of the products, that is, for example, consumer choice is distorted to the extent that it then strongly undermines its optimal allocation of resources. That's a lot of expertise. A typical example can also be the so-called svarcsystem. Of course, I could talk even longer. I hope I have expressed my opinion on all the most fundamental comments that have been made here. I think that the greatest inaccuracies, and I am very correct, were sounded in relation to the correct creation of reserves, so that they are only tax-efficient at a certain amount, as the legislation of the Czech rule of law knew until 2000, for example in a different form, because today we have the European directive Solventy II and we want it to be followed. So I wanted you to know the correct explanation for what was going on here last night. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u43	That was Madam Secretary. And now I have with priority the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club, Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word. Next in the order of priority law is the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, we have already agreed with the Minister that we can address ourselves directly in the parliamentary debate. So I will allow myself to reflect and say: Madam Secretary, I respect that in political debate a degree of demagogy is part of political armament and that it is appropriate, but it must have its peace. It must not be as desperate and so transparent a lie as you serve Members of the Chamber of Deputies and, moreover, the Czech public. [[15.50 hours]] Of course, all insurance companies in the European Union are bound by the Solvency II Directive. I was one of those who negotiated it. And, given the fragile financial system and its small stability in some countries of the European Union, the Solvency II Directive has ordered all the countries of the European Union to have some minimum reserves there, otherwise the system will simply be unstable, it cannot be audited and cannot be part of the European Union. But please, it's pretty minimal. Of course, it is every country's interest that those reserves be greater than the minimum and that stability be greater than the minimum. And no directive forbids us to do that. On the contrary. That's quite the opposite of what you're telling these people. You're saying you want to have it under the Solvency II directive. But it's the same as saying that President Bartoš, because he wasn't 40 yet, has to run a mile in three minutes, but she blamed him for not running it in two and a half minutes. That's totally... And that's what you guys are explaining with a serious public face. And we are in a situation where we have a robust, stable financial system that we can lean on, which is one of the pillars of our future perspective. When the crisis was ten years ago, Madam Secretary, you were, as I recall, the head of the legal department of the South Moravian Financial Authority, and you couldn't care less. But at that time, the Czech financial private institutions, whether they were banks or insurance companies, did not need the intervention of taxpayers. And the Czech Republic... When President Faltýnek speaks... And the Czech Republic was one of the four countries around the world, in whose private financial sector the taxpayer did not have to intervene, because the system was stable and robust, whether it concerned the capital adequacy of Czech banks or the reserves of Czech insurance companies. And now if I were to move from insurance companies to banks, you wouldn't dare, because as far as I know, Agrofert is engaged with about 35 billion bank loans, so you're not going that far. But it's the same with the banks. If we go to European Union directives, the mandatory minimum capital adequacy is much smaller than the Czech banks have. And what's good? That the capital adequacy is greater? Or is it wrong? Well, of course it's a good thing. It is equally good that the reserves of Czech insurance companies are larger than those laid down in the Solvency II Directive. And the government now wants to plunder the reserves of the public budgets that are in the private financial sector and weaken the private sector. And if at least - at least - it's long-term if it's repeatable, but it's only for two years. And you're gonna put in long-term mandatorial expenses for one to two years against that instant banging, and what happens after 2022, you don't give a damn. Let's still be happy today in our white bed. What's tomorrow, who knows? We'll lie in the coffins tomorrow. This is your policy, Madam Secretary, and the Prime Minister, who says he doesn't care what happens in 2050 in environmental policy. Your policy and policy of the Minister of Health, because you don't care what happens to health and retirement care in 2040 to 2050. You guys are just trying to renege and tweak for the next two years! And what happens next, you don't give a damn. But that is the degree of irresponsibleness that we simply refuse to suffer and which we will defend! And I really warn all Members across the political spectrum so that, after you have reduced the resilience of public budgets and everyone - everyone! - in the pension system, in health insurance companies, in the state budget, in the accounts of the National Property Fund, in debt service reserves, you have significantly reduced the resistance of the Czech Republic to future crisis situations everywhere. And now you're trying to reduce the resistance in the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a crime! And I beg you not to allow this crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u45	Now with priority right so far the last application - Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. I would like to point out that we are now outside the general debate, so only Members with priority rights or ministers. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u46	Firstly, I would like to propose, in a procedural way, that we open the debate with a vote. Madam Secretary is very good at commending himself. She told us a moment ago, that's how she looked at us to the right, and she says, "I honor each of you, I wouldn't dare do anything else," but she gets off so that none of my honored colleagues from ODS can get off except me and President Fiala. [[♪ Showing off ♪]] It's called fear. Nothing else. So you don't honor my colleagues. You can say that, but you're really doing something else. Then, Madam Secretary, you heartily told us that you prepared the money for the next government when we rule. Thank you. Thank you. We say we don't want the money. You don't have to prepare them for us. Three. You're the one who called yourself correct in the act. Well, it wasn't correct at all. And we can argue very long and detailedly, but I don't want to. For example, you said that we did not have a reduction in income tax for individuals in the medium term plan. That's right. That was supposed to be since 2016. Which government prepared the medium-term outlook for 2016? Rusnokův's government. Not our government. So that's a really argumentative foul. It is a argumentative foul because the last medium-term outlook prepared by the ODS government and TOP 09 was for 2014 and 2015. And you yourself said correctly that those taxes should have been reduced to employees since 1 January 2016, so logically they could not have been incorporated in the medium term for 2015. Madam Secretary here said she was dealing with the insurance sector. Of course she acted. Do you know how the meeting went? When did it take place, and what was the contents of the meeting? The Minister dealt with insurance representatives two days after the government approved a sectoral tax for insurance companies and announced at the meeting that there was nothing left to discuss because the government had already decided. And as the Minister says, you know me, I'm open to every meeting, no problem. So we are honored - we cannot debate; it is correct - it does not use true arguments in the debate and acts so that it acts after something has been approved and tells the other side: there is nothing left to discuss, the government has approved. He's right. Once the government has approved it, there's nothing to discuss. But why didn't the secretary have the courage to deal with them before? I don't know. She has to answer that. I don't really care. I can see the attitude of someone who gets it approved first, and then he says, so I'm sorry, there's nothing left to talk about. From a long speech by the Minister, it can be summed up simply, I would use three words: excuses, excuses, excuses. The minister said: it is true that we have made a commitment not to raise taxes. That's right. And that's it. It increases them. The performance is really very embarrassing, evasive, all kinds of excuses. And since my colleagues would like to respond to specific things in which the Minister - I will use her dictionary and thank you for the kind dictionary - has used inaccuracies, so I am making a procedural proposal to reopen the debate. If he so wants to honor my colleagues from my club, he will certainly convince his MP as Secretary of State to support this proposal, and they will be able to debate you face to face.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u47	Mr President, should I understand your proposal as a procedural proposal, when did you propose to open a debate? [[Yes.]] Okay. That's what we'd vote on. You can make this proposal. So I'll check you out. I'm gonna call everyone to the conference room, and I'm gonna put them in, and we're gonna wait for the Members to have time to show up... [[He's waiting.]] I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura proposed a procedural proposal for us to reopen the general debate. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 62 175 Members signed up, for 78, against 47. The motion was denied. And now I just point out that we are still outside the general debate, but with priority right, Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip are interested in speaking. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u48	Thank you. I would almost cry after some speeches, especially after the end of the debate. I'd even believe it if it wasn't said by those who owed a year's worth of 260 billion and who are preaching morale here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u49	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u50	I didn't owe anybody or try to preach morale. But it seems strange to us that the Minister has spoken in such a way that none of our colleagues who deal with the economy can respond to this. And unfortunately, you've been doing this to us for four years in the Prague council. It was not possible to respond to the councilman, because they always kept it in the last word so that no one could respond to it. So I guess I'm just gonna walk around here now and interpret all the reactions that the Minister has made by not speaking out in the debate like the other normal Members. So she is not an MP, so in some respects a different level, but in the debate it is to be discussed and the best solutions are to be sought, and not that I am sitting and then I am getting off and reacting to all things in a way that is definitely not possible to call a true, fair way of finding a real solution. Because when I look at a specific example, the Minister spoke when she compared the legislation on the fee that is paid for registration in the Land Register, and she said that they have a higher fee in Slovakia, well, and that we can also increase it. Sure, that's true, of course, the Minister did not lie, but she did cover up a little when she forgot to say that you have to pay a tax on the acquisition of real estate, which is very oily, while there is no such tax in Slovakia. So in the result of this transfer of real estate in Slovakia is dramatically cheaper than in the Czech Republic and we are now making it even more expensive in this way, so we are increasing the tax burden borne by taxpayers in the Czech Republic who purchase their property. So I'd like to ask the Minister to actually describe it the way it is, these things, so that these comparisons are relevant, so that they aren't things taken out of context that really just serve to pull some statements out of it, and that's where the demagogic performances are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u51	Thank you. I don't see anyone else logged in with priority rights, so we'll deal with the suggestions we have here. There is a proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, which was presented by Mr Ferjenčík 9. 7. and there is a motion to reject the proposal submitted, which also presented 9. 7. Vice-President Okamura. First, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 63, 182 Members and Members are registered, for 76, against 98. The motion was denied. Furthermore, we will vote on the proposal to reject the proposed bill. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? (Vote number 64.) Registered 182 Members, for 77, versus 99. The motion was denied. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see... This is Mrs Langšádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u52	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. I was going to suggest that the economic committee should still deal with this, because there are questions about insurance companies in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u53	Like a guarantee businessman? [[No, next.]] Okay. So the commandment of the committee as a guarantee - we have only one proposal here, and that is the proposal: the budget committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? (Vote number 65.) 184 Members and Members signed in for 184, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Mrs Langšádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u54	I'm sorry. Yes, I would also like to see if this could be discussed on the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u55	Yes, thank you. Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Bartošek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to propose a social committee, because the government of YES, ČSSD and KSČM here wants to make housing more expensive for 400 000 households, so I think it is appropriate for the Social Committee to discuss this. Furthermore, I would propose a constitutional committee, because taxation of 100 per cent of the annual profit, or almost 100 per cent of the annual profit of a whole sector, is significantly on the edge of constitutionality. So it's the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u57	Thank you. Mr Bartošek. And I'm gonna ask for peace in the Chamber to hear each other, and I'm gonna make a good record, and we're gonna vote right, and we're gonna make a mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also wanted to propose a social committee, so I support this proposal. And just as I said yesterday that it is not properly processed by RIA and is actually threatening to raise taxes and lead to the development of the black market, so I am convinced that it should go to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u59	Vice-President Pikal. And quiet, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u60	Since there are also changes in the rates of gambling tax or alcohol tax, partly with the justification that we have heard here about addiction and other related phenomena, I would like, as the next committee, to propose a health committee, so that those tax rates are rationally set there, so that we achieve the preventive effect that is declared here, because I think the proposal does not correspond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u61	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to order the committee to discuss this press? I don't see anybody, so let's vote. We will begin with the last proposal by Vice-President Pikal to order this press to the Health Committee. Who's in? I've started the vote. Who's against it? In voting order number 66, 183 Members and Members have signed up for 70. The motion was denied. [[16.10 hours]] Mr Bartošek's proposal as the commandment of this press to the Security Committee is next in line. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 67, registered by 183 Members, for 64, the proposal was rejected. Another is Mr Ferjenčík's proposal that this press be proposed for discussion by the Constitutional Legal Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 68, registered by 183 Members and Members, for 62, the proposal was rejected. Another is the proposal by Mr Ferjenčík on the commandment of the Social Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 69, registered by 183 Members, for 64, the proposal was rejected. The final proposal is to Mrs Langšádlová on the commandment of the Economic Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 70, 183 Members and Members signed in for 80, the proposal was rejected. I note that this press has not been directed to other committees. In the general debate, President Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I just can't forgive myself for the comment because I didn't respond to the minister here who was impressed with how open all the debate is and wants to deal with us and appreciates us. So it doesn't go to any committee. The Health Minister was here yesterday with the greatest philosophy of citizens' health, so it's not even going to the Health Committee. This is not a tax measure, it is a health measure, as we learned yesterday. And after we found out that the government didn't know what the impact would be on the families that were drowning gas, it didn't even go into the social committee where at least somebody could deal with it when the government didn't even measure what the impact would be. So this is an open debate, an expert discussion that the finance secretary here has been telling us about before. So I hope that the people who are watching it get to them, how open discussions work from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance, and therefore Members, including those from the Communist Party, who also do not want this to be dealt with in the Social Committee, so this is how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u63	Thank you. We still have - in the general debate, Mr Juránek proposed to extend the deadline by 20 days. This is possible only with the agreement of the appellant. [[A note from the diaper.]] Without consent. I'm sorry, it's not right here. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Twenty days. [[Another reaction from the diaper.]] Yes, yes. Mr. Juránek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u64	I would like to set this right, because I said 30 days at the beginning, and that is, of course, possible only with the agreement of the appellant. [[The President: And this has misled me.]] But then I fixed it up to the 20, and there was that first note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u65	Yes, he doesn't have to. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u66	It doesn't have to be there anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-022-009.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for setting things straight. I will put to the vote on this proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 71, 183 Members and Members signed, 78, 61, the proposal was rejected. We've dealt with this press and we can move on to the next point. It's...
