ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 200/6/ - returned to the Senate We interrupted the discussion of this item in the debate on 24 September 2019 at the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I remind you that the Senate has returned the bill with an amendment. His resolution was delivered as House Press 200/7. At the rapporteur's table, I will ask Mr Patrik Nacher and Senator Nytra to take his place as rapporteur, if necessary... and Mr Raduan Nwelati is already here. I missed you, Senator. I'm sorry. The rapporteur for the Economic Guarantee Committee is Mrs Helena Langšádlová. So we will now continue the interrupted debate. At the moment, Mr Leo Luzar is the first Member to be entered into the debate. I'm gonna ask you all to calm down. In case you have something to discuss, go take it outside, 35th meeting started an hour and a quarter ago. Some haven't noticed yet. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, we stand before once again trying to open a law which, as a result, deals not with us as customers of shops, not with the owners of shops and sellers who are trying to sell us the goods, but with those who work in those shops. There is the effort of this proposal, or this law, which so far applies and determines the holidays, the public holidays, which are for large shops over 250 meters of holiday when they are closed, are abolished. The repeal of this law was at the time of the adoption of the original proposal constantly in the permanence of opponents who said it was a law that was wrong, because it does not allow free movement of goods within business owners, does not allow the decision whether they want to sell or not to sell, whether they want to celebrate or not to celebrate. Unfortunately, once again, I point out that those who sell in these stores have completely fallen out of this debate. The proposal that we have before us, which was a parliamentary proposal by colleagues from the ANO 2011 movement who went from the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate, did not hide their ambition to open this law, and its proponents have argued that it is ideal for them to be abolished completely, that it is their philosophy and ideology that they want to abolish this law, but that they are aware of political reality, yet they are willing to debate that the existing law, which says that shops over 250 metres are closed on certain holiday days, will want to amend and allow at least some trade to be opened. Namely, they talk about wholesale. When we look at the reality of this amendment of the law, we find that this actually applies only to one wholesale chain. This philosophy clearly suggests the direction of the petitioner's reasoning. So either he succumbed to the distinctive lobbyism of this one wholesale network, which meets these conditions and which I suppose is what I would not respect, or it is merely an excuse. The lock of this law to be opened so that it can be cancelled. What we pointed out in this law was that it was actually a hidden attempt to abolish this law, it turned out to be true after the Senate's return. In other words, once again, there is a tendency for the debate that took place in the adoption of this law to put the House in a state that it will mostly abolish this law. Now let's get back to the sense of the group that almost nobody here is talking about. These are people who work in these stores. Seminars were held on the premises of the House, where representatives were involved, working these wholesalers, which are closed on the holidays mentioned in this law, and they talk about benefits. The vast majority of all present spoke of some relief, some advantage, and that they would like this to be preserved or extended to all holidays. This is a matter which, of course, can be discussed in the further development of this law, and I am returning again to the time when it was adopted, when this law was adopted in a compromise solution. This means that only some holidays have been accepted, and especially for the reason that it turns out that these holidays are really closed at certain specific holidays is so economically liquidating for those shops that they are closed, that we will just go back to it sometime in the future and assess and say - we do not want to liquidate these trades. I proved that there was no liquidation at the time of this law. On the contrary, sales in these shops may increase significantly in the days preceding the closing day, because people in that panic supply from a closed day, and they usually do not supply real estate in that spirit for one day, but they overtake it. In other words, there's a clear and significant increase in sales for those stores that are closed. But, of course, it's a little less comfortable for them to be so open all the time and not have to take these holidays into account. That's one plane of thing. The second plane of the matter that the petitioners have not dealt with is, say, the motivation of those employees who today oppose the abolition of this law. So how can we motivate them, if we want to cancel it so that they go to work and say well, we will work on the holidays, we can say specifically at Christmas, but we want to have it properly paid so that we can consider it, and between us in the collective you, Anička, are free, you will welcome double, triple, four times the salary, and on that holiday you will go to the store, but I, who have little children, or I, who have little children, prefer to be with them and I will take the extra money away. [[15.20 hours]] But this is not what the petitioners submit in the context of solving this problem. Here, I see it as a kind of hypocrisy and compliance with their own opinion, which is undiscovered, that they simply do not agree with the law, and this proposal that we are discussing is merely a proxy so that he can open up this matter here and abolish the law as a whole. And that will show up after voting on the proposals that come from the Senate. Those who supported the parliamentary version will be able to stand before they remain in support only of Parliament, in other words they will also allow one wholesaler to be opened, or they will support the Senate, which repeals this law as a whole. That's where it turns out who was a hypocrite and who really meant it with that one wholesaler. And one more plane I would like to draw attention to, and I have already drawn the attention of the petitioner in the discussion of the original parliamentary proposal, the proposal is not perfect because it talks about wholesalers, in other words about those who sell within the wholesale system, that is to say, registered entrepreneurs. But there could be a lot more of these trades. Even those who now have more than 250 square metres and sell to a normal consumer, that is, the final consumer, could introduce their own side system. And they just need one businessman, one self-employed person, with whom they're gonna make a wholesale deal, and they're gonna give her some kind of card. At that point, according to this proposal, they will become the wholesaler who sells to businessmen and get out of this register. And the petitioners didn't disprove me. In other words, I return to the purpose of the petitioner again. This is really an attempt to abolish this law, and I cannot agree with that. And I'm glad to hear from the right side of the spectrum that this is what we want, and that's exactly what they're going to be defending here today. I regret, of course, that from the centre of this House, which is the centre of government, this clear confession did not come out, but only hypocritical: we only want to allow traders to shop in wholesale. And then this is where he shows up in the vote. I will really follow this and with me certainly all the employees, their family members and others who realize that this company is increasingly going towards consumption and that the system that is set up here is ruthlessly forcing employees to go to work on holiday days, even if it is not necessary. And I draw attention to the example of all of Europe, or a large part of Europe, which we would very much like in that culture, in the system, where it is absolutely common that shops are closed on Sundays. And now there's an argument. Why is it there? They're so stupid, they're just closed? After all, the whole world, Europe should set an example for us. Why do we not go into this system in this particular example and take into account their experience that they have closed holiday days, often even Sundays? This question remains unanswered again. I think there's gonna be another speaker on this counter that they support and don't support these opinions, but the foundation will remain here. This is simply not a fight between those who want to buy and those who want to sell. This battle takes place in a market environment of a completely different dimension. Now it's really just about the employees and those who could lose their chance to be home for the holidays, thanks to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u3	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. First, Mrs Válková. Then Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u4	Mr President, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I would like only a small one, and therefore only a factual point, a reservation. As far as the members of the YES movement are concerned, as far as I remember, we had no binding vote. If we had, I'd forgotten. But in any case, I thought it was a mistake to open this law. Very wrong. I was sorry, and I didn't change my attitude. Now we're facing sophiiný's tough choice. It will certainly be interesting to follow the results of the vote, but I do not want it to be said on a flat-rate basis that we all wanted something for YES and we have used the argument that Mr Luzar here, through you, Mr President, has outlined. It's not like that. And I don't think the argument was exactly interpreted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u5	Thank you. Another factual point, President Faltýnek. Mr. Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u6	Colleagues and colleagues, it is a great pity that some of us do not have political foresight. The law is called the retail selling time. That is why, when he was in the House, we proposed in the '90s that we see that it concerns retail sales time, and wholesale, Mr Luzar, through Mr President, to get out of this. And let's ask ourselves, who initiated the 90th session with the knowledge of the political composition of the Senate. Well, we've got that back, and maybe the law won't apply at all. But that's what I was pointing out back in the '90s. You didn't want to hear me, so we'll see. But for me and I hope that even for our entire club, or for its overwhelming majority, we insist on the House version, even though it didn't pass in the '90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u7	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Mr. Nacher. Mr Jiránek will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I've applied directly to de facto so that some things don't fly in the air. One. My colleague Luzar, I like to discuss with him otherwise, because we're going deeper, here he was talking about hypocrisy. There can't be a word about hypocrisy. I say from the very beginning that I personally voted in favour of repealing the law, I voted in favour repeatedly, once, twice, three times, I don't know how many times we voted in favour of it. In this case, precisely so that no one would suspect me that I went through the salami method, we together with other translators have just proposed the section 90 so that it doesn't look like we want to cancel it through wholesale. You guys vetoed it, so it went to second and third reading. And it's really not my fault the Senate brought it back here in this form. That means we're back to square one. You're responsible for this. So it's not hypocrisy. And I've been saying from the beginning that I'm going to vote for the annulment as a whole, but I was willing to put it here in the form that only wholesale would fall out. That's the first thing. Second thing. Economics - an argument has again been made about the economy. No one here has ever said anything about it, no one in any debate, that the economy of the state or businesses would be threatened. So I don't know why you're turning this around. No one's gonna argue with that. We're still arguing here, if anything, with the freedom of choice. Third. It must be explained at the beginning at all that the abolition of the ban does not mean the introduction of an obligation. It's just not like that. That means we're just canceling the ban, but we're not imposing an obligation to be open. I've been giving examples of gastronomy where my friend has a restaurant and he's closed every Monday, and it's not in the law. So it doesn't have to be written in the law. And the rest of you, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jiránek, then Mr Luzar in fact. Mr. Mr. Skopeček will wait a little longer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u10	I want to thank my colleagues Nacher and Luzar in advance. I like to talk to them too, it always goes deep and it's very pleasant. I just want to add, because I admit that there weren't so many arguments against the economy in the House, but in the media, it sounded to us to imagine that it doesn't pay off much of the shops, chains. What we have numbers, the attendance at the holidays is about 30%. Businesses are usually open only because it is a marketing necessity for them not to obtain in one or two days a customer who will not be able to go to them when they are closed but will go to some competition, the impression that competition is better. So they prefer to keep it open so they can just keep it open. But it's not like they're excited about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u11	Good afternoon. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with the factual remark of Leo Luzar. Hold on just a little longer, colleague. Mr Marek Výborný from 15.15 am to the end of the day for health reasons. Now your performance, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u12	Thank you. I thank your colleague Jiránek for justifying one argument that he made here. I'd like to elaborate on the argument that said that we wanted in the '90s, you're the ones who brought it to our attention. Yes, the original idea was in the '90s. We have already pointed out that the proposal, as it is presented, is easily circumstantial and therefore leads to the fact that, in fact, all currently closed shops under this law will circumvent this law by finding one single, easily single self-employed person with whom they will conclude a contract for wholesale supply of goods, and at that moment they will be out of the regime. So it'll be easy to exploit. And I'm going to be very curious to see if this bill goes through, as was said here by the President of the ANO club, Mr. Faltýnek, by your means, that the parliamentary version will pass, so I'm going to be very curious about the practical consequences of what I'm pointing out right now, and I'm going to be really curious about whose interests this was fought for. If it's really just the one wholesaler that, by definition, should benefit from it, or it's really gonna be a hug, and suddenly the whole law becomes irrelevant, because they're all gonna go around this model that I'm pointing out here. At the same time, I added that I tabled an amendment that would handle it elegantly and specify the wholesalers so that it could not be circumvented, and I offered a compromise solution for the arguments that are mentioned here that some entrepreneurs want to buy at the particular wholesale place on the holidays, but this has been rejected. That's why I think I'm right and that history and time will make me right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of the Skopeček will wait. With the factual remark of his party colleague Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u14	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by means of you to my colleague Jiránek, who spoke here about the economy and justified - here I am paraphrasing - that not all business is worth it and that they are doing it for their marketing, if I understand correctly. So I would like to say, above all, that we should leave it up to them, both on customers and on those shops, how they decide for themselves, what is advantageous for them, what is disadvantageous for them, and not denying free will from the state and free decision-making by both customers and shop owners. I don't think the state is supposed to get involved, it's supposed to really let people agree on their free will, and that's why I'm gonna support the Senate version, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual point - Mr Jiří Bláha, then a duly registered colleague Skopeček. You have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would only like to respond in this technical context to that freedom, because it is important to say so. Freedom, freedom of choice, and this is a very hot topic, or often no businessman who sells in retail, but also in wholesale, can say: I will be closed or open because the way he has to behave is a contract, even rental. This means that if you are part of an apartment building, a housing unit, a department store, you have a duty to observe some of the house's customs. At that point, you can't decide: I want to be closed on the holiday. It doesn't allow you to rent a lease. At that point, even if it's disadvantageous for you, you have to open up. The second thing about freedom for wholesalers is that if you deliver to wholesalers from Monday to Sunday or Monday to Friday, it doesn't matter. If it's a holiday, the wholesale will force you to deliver on the holiday. And now take the freedom of a fresh food supplier who can't deliver to anyone else because it's closed everywhere, but no one really wants to be open on the holiday, because all the little customers have decided they're gonna be closed on the holiday, but you have to deliver to the wholesale, because the moment you don't deliver it, you're gonna lose your delivery contract in a normal week. So with one's freedom, the other's freedom dies. Well, that's normal, and that's why we can't play around here and leave it on the deal. The deal is always about the rights of the stronger one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u17	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. [[Messenger. Thank you.]] Thank you. Now, colleague Jan Skopeček, Mr. Bláha will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u18	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I was disciplinedly waiting for a standard performance, although I think a number of my previous speakers have used a factual remark to give an alternative opinion and an alternative speech on this subject. I must say for the ODS club that, of course, we will support the Senate version of the bill, which proposes abolishing the law as a whole. We have been against this stupid proposal from the very beginning, which, in my opinion, has no meaning and brings chaos in reality. Although I am a person who prefers to engage in activities other than shopping on public holidays, I visited a Prague shopping center when opening hours were regulated. The reality at the mall was that the stores that were above the allowed framework were closed, all the other small shops, cafes, restaurants were opened. There had to be a security service, there had to be a cleanup, there must have been employees of small shops. The only people that were touched were stores with a large area. What's the point of segregating like this, dividing small stores from big ones? It doesn't have a head or a heel. Of course, the same dominant, overwhelming part of those business center employees was there on the day it was supposed to be closed. The only thing that caused this was that confused people who came to buy didn't have a chance to buy in big stores, but they could only buy in small ones. So sometimes it's good to come down from the Chamber of Deputies to the reality of life, go into those state holidays stores, and maybe then you'd vote on the law in a completely different way. But that's a specific experience from the last state holiday that was regulated. Of course, the reason we're calling for the Senate version is more general. We think there's just things that the state isn't into and that it's not supposed to be digging into. And this is exactly the area. Because we here regulate the free decision of a store owner who uses his own property at his own risk, he pays taxes on it, and we limit him to use his own property to do business, to get an economic profit from which the state will subsequently pay taxes, which we are all so happy to redistribute here. So, of course, we're restricting the freedom of choice of the entrepreneur. We also restrict the freedom of choice of consumers. I don't think the state is here to tell people what to do on a public holiday. If people just don't have time at other times and a public holiday is the day they want to buy, then once again the state has nothing to say to them whether they should go to church on a national holiday, take a walk or buy. It should just be their own decision. I think that people are so smart, so they can make their own decisions without the opinion of politicians, without thinking that they will certainly choose the right option for what they will do about the state holiday. [[Nesroz.]] It's often mentioned here that it's a benefit for employees who have to work on public holidays. Colleagues, colleagues, the employee also signs a contract of employment freely. No one holds a sword over him that he has to sign with an employer who requires work on weekends or public holidays. Nowadays, when there is record low unemployment, when there is a large number of job vacancies offered by employers, there is no doubt that an employee who does not want to work on weekends will find employment with another employer who simply does not require work on holidays. In the case at hand, because of the situation on the labour market today, employers must, of course, offer extra money at work on public holidays, rewards which, of course, improve the employee's possible net income. [[15.40 hours]] So it's against everyone. It is against entrepreneurs, it is against employees who conclude their contracts freely, it is also against consumers. And most importantly, as I'm saying again, it doesn't make any sense, because we can see that these state holidays are where confused consumers come in who just want to buy, and just because they didn't look at the fact that this holiday is closed and the next one is open, so it gives [[Nesroz.]] I would like to respond to my colleague Luzar and his performance only point-blank. Mr. Luzar - and they like to do it, they speak for the whole class, for the whole social groups, he speaks for all the employees. Mr. Colleague, I've been talking to a lot of employees, especially the younger age, students who are upset about this regulation, because they used these very holiday days to go to the brigade to go sell to this store, so they got extra money at the brigades. You've taken away the opportunity for them to make extra money with your desire to regulate the lives of each and every one of us. Then I was amused by your mention of whether we look to the West, where there is also no work, or not to sell on Sundays. Do you know why this is happening in the West? It's for church reasons. It's because of the fact that there are simply believers there more, a greater percentage than ours, and that believers just go to church on Sunday, and it's a social issue. It surprises me from a fellow Communist party that he is currently fighting for practicing Catholics and wants them to have a greater chance to go to church on Sundays or to reduce the possibility of doing something else. I had no idea that a Communist MP would fight to make the practicing Catholics devote themselves even more to the issue of faith instead of the consumption. The last thing I want to do to respond to my colleague Luzar is that it all leads to greater consumption. Well, I understand you're upset about the consumption. During that centrally managed economy, the shelves and shops were empty, there was nothing to buy. But thank God, the time has passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u19	Mr Skopeček has raised two factual points - Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Le Luzar. First of all, Mr Nacher's factual point. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm still gonna respond to the previous one because it didn't say everything. First of all, a response to my colleague Bláha. I wrote it exactly - no one wants to be open. So they're not open, it's a round square. I can't argue with this. I can't argue with the fact that no one wants to be open, and yet this law will make them have to be open. I don't understand. As far as my colleague Luzar is concerned, he said earlier that we're trying to get our own opinion here. If he's listening to me now, his own opinion. Well, what else is it about? You're promoting this as someone else's opinion? Or I don't understand it now. Yes, it's my opinion. But I, my colleague, unlike others here in this House - I've been here for a year and a half - try to promote opinions about things that I don't seem to live on my own. Let me give you an example. I voted here twice in favour of greater benevolence in the amount of alcohol in the blood for watermen and cyclists, although I myself am abstinence. And I voted for it. So it's not like that. That's my opinion, but it doesn't mean I'm living it. I'm here to describe that, as much as I'm suggesting it here, it doesn't mean I'd go shopping crazy on holidays on purpose. Now it's Sunday, now it's the holidays, and I'm going shopping just to... Well, I'd like to underline that. And last thing, those are the examples from abroad. Well, I've warned before. If it was here before the Senate, I'd repeat it to my colleagues, because it's so dangerous, it can come back to you as a boomerang. Because either we're going to give the examples from abroad, and then we're going to use it in all cases, in all laws, or just selectively, where we can use it. Which is in this case. Because in that case, I would remind you of marriage for everyone who also works in Western Europe. And there you and your KDU-ČSL colleagues will not argue that this is true, so it is a reason for this to apply to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u21	Mr. Colleague, your time for a point of fact is over. Thank you. Now Le Luzar's factual comment, another, Martin Jiránek's comment and his colleague Mihola. So, Mr Leo Luzar, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. By your means, I will respond to my two previous speakers. A colleague of Nacher's here. He's right in his basics that that's his opinion. But he's using the method that I would suggest the law to abolish it and ban it, or cancel the law, that's my opinion, but since I know I'd run into it, I'm gonna take some steps, and I'm just gonna give it a little bit less. So either I have an opinion that I don't want it to be - then I would understand. But I'm not going to go through the method of, like, opening it up and hoping for a result that will eventually be what we're dealing with here today with the senators' opinion. You could put it that way, Mr. Colleague, and I think maybe that's how you feel about it, too. Because once you didn't pass the '90s, if you were on your principles, you would withdraw the proposal and not discuss it further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u23	On a factual point, my colleague, please address your colleagues through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u24	Sorry. That is, through you to your colleague, Skopečka. I used that example abroad for one simple reason. Because there are not only church holidays, there are also state holidays of individual states, which are often even more represented there than those of the church, or are possibly quite balanced. And when they talk about whether the Communists support the Christians, he's making this old Jewish joke about the first communist being Ježíš Kristus. So from this point of view, I think history will show who's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiránek, a colleague of Mihola, will be prepared, then again a colleague Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u26	Thank you. So, through the President to my colleague Nacher, to be right. [[Member Nacher - a reminder off the microphone.]] Well, I said it right, didn't I? Nacher, no. [[Another reminder.]] No, no, no, I wouldn't dare. Just one sentence. I understand what colleague Bláha says, and it's just to have a real conversation about it. And I'd like to see a colleague, Skopečka, who is not here, who had two arguments. People nowadays can easily change their jobs. So, if I remember correctly, the first thoughts around this proposal began to emerge in a time of economic crisis. For example, in Trutnov alone, unemployment was around 10%, and people were really afraid to leave their places in chains. And I have experience directly from people that they went to work on the holidays simply because they were clearly indicated that there were plenty of other people waiting for the job. So the fact that it's an economic boom right now shouldn't play a role because it can change quickly. And secondly, to clarify that people are getting money for this holiday job. It's not that big of a deal. They're mostly on leave. So it's not about the money, it's about someone taking one more day's vacation. Most, according to the employee survey, really prefers to be home instead of having a day off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Jiří Mihola, will prepare Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u28	Hello, Mr President, fellow Members. We should already be writing down the arguments that have been fought here, which have been repeatedly raised here, and which are coming up again. So the economic reasons that were used to be fencing turned out that there aren't really any, that it doesn't cause anything. They don't seem to remember that much. Surprisingly, what was most repeated here, the chaos resulting from the fact that only 8 days out of 14 public holidays concern the regulation of the selling time, so your colleague Nacher emphasized a great deal by means of you. But it doesn't come down here either. I'm quite interested in following up on a fellow Skopeček who's not here right now. A number of those public holidays were probably supported by colleagues from the ODS when they were formed. I'd be interested in the diction in defending the introduction of the state holiday. And I'd almost bet it didn't ring so the students could go to the brigade. I've never heard such nonsense. And then we'll be moaning in front of the camera that no one knows why the holiday is. [[15.50 hours]] So what do we really want, I wonder? And I don't want to tell anyone, please don't push me what to do. It's often a swordplay, and it's very unfair. And the situation where there are believers, the unbelievers, I don't know if my colleague Skopeček goes to church, I go to church abroad when I am, and the differences certainly don't play any part in this. I do not even point to Western Europe that we should follow it. I'm just saying, it's been there for years, it's functional, and those economies are usually one step ahead of us. That's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher's factual comment and a colleague Jiří Bláha will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u30	Thank you. I see it's gonna be a long afternoon. I'm gonna say it one more time, 'cause they're watching it at midnight, so they might be confused. Make it perfectly clear to my colleague Luzar through you. It is so that I, although I am the new Member here, respect that we once voted on this, I believe, in February or March of last year, and did not pass the repeal of the law as a whole. I voted for it. I voted in favour of removing those wholesalers for the reasons that we said here in the first, second, third reading, I will not repeat this again, with the fact that from the beginning it was on the basis of § 90, which for the viewers means that this is a vote one at first reading, and this is because it does not happen that there will come from one side proposals for repealing the law as a whole, it has happened, and from the other side proposals for extension to the next holidays, Saturdays, Sundays etc., etc. That's partly what happened. You guys vetoed it, so you let it go. That means everything that's happened since the first day we designed this place, you're already responsible for it. I ask in this, I have a clear conscience in this, consistently presenting it here as well. If you'd approved this with one vote, we could have had it over by now, and we didn't have to talk about it at all, and we can do really more important things than this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now a well-prepared colleague, Jiří Bláha, will prepare Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u32	Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be quick, I haven't prepared any stacks for several pages. I just want to reopen what we're talking about here. Neither, whether the law in force or the proposals, are a happy choice. But it's there. What they pay today is at least a weak patch to those who get up every morning at three o'clock and have to go open the store, or close at eight and get home at ten at night, without the need to ensure security in our country. It seems to me, and I want you to understand that it's not for me to tell you here: I know better, or you haven't experienced it. All I'm saying is that this is where we're talking, and it seems to me, about us without us. It is about that, that those who go to work in those shops or bakeries or are dealing with the supply of fresh food to the shops have some opinion, and that opinion has been expressed in a referendum that supported 22,000 subjects or people who said: we don't want to work on the holiday, we want to have the same leave of absence as officials on the holiday as people who do not have the duty to be included today from the point of view that they can't decide freely, I'm not going to work. Here's what it said: You don't have to work where the employer won't let you. But it's a little different. If this person has learned from a salesman or has learned from a baker or has learned from a pastry chef or another profession that is in the field of fresh or any food, he has nothing else to do because he has been taught to do it, and he certainly hasn't learned it to go to work on the holiday. At that point, the name of a state holiday or a church holiday loses its worth, because when you look in the box, what a holiday it is, it's a day of peace in the first place. And that day of peace only applies to the chosen? Just for the chosen? Well, that's very wrong. I think that a state holiday, if we've approved it here with all due respect, should be true for everyone, as it is in all developed countries. I met with Patrik Nacher through the President last time, and he said, well, when I come to Germany, I can't even borrow the bike. Well, that's just it. That these people respect those values and know that on the holiday they should cling to their family, to spend the day in peace, to not rush into anything, to talk in peace, to meet with their neighbors, and to deal with family matters. It was said here that in foreign countries these are mainly church things. But church isn't just a holiday, Mr. Luzar said that. The tradition is ours, and the tradition here is centuries old, only for the last 25 years we've ripped it out of context and we've introduced a holiday job - it's always closed. I would still use this afternoon to say hello to all the bakers who are open today and daily, today and daily, and are celebrating World Bread Day tomorrow. And I would like to tell them that there are Members in the Chamber of Deputies who know what work you do, and they know that when you come to work at night or in the morning or late afternoon, you deserve to be on holiday with your family and spend it just like most employees who only go to work from 7:00 to 3:30. Not like you guys who have to work one night, the second morning, the third afternoon. I believe that common sense will prevail here and that we will begin to talk about this without us. This means that do not solve arguments such as: Well we want to be open in wholesalers precisely so that those who are open can buy. That's an argument from the realm of dreams. None of the entrepreneurs will take an extra worker to work on the day of the holiday. And it's for purely economic reasons in the first place, because the worker costs more. Nowadays it's not enough to pay him a holiday plus a job. In fact, you didn't get double before. All you got was a paid shift plus a paid holiday as another worker. So no double pay. Only paid all claims that are. And today, every businessman who wants to get employees on holiday to work has to pay a lot of extras and they're not small. And any of you guys are gonna pay that store more money on the holiday? Neither of you. Here it has already been said, 30 percent is just an economic return compared to a normal working day. So figure out what our economy looks like. At the moment that we shut down on the holiday, most traders would spare, we would save a lot of energy, so also the environment, but most importantly, we would help all those people who have to work today on the holiday, even though they do not ensure the safety or health of our country, so we would allow them to spend the day with their family. [[16.00 hours]] Once again, I would like to emphasise a free decision here. This free decision is not really with the employee, but often not with the employer, because we are all bound by some contracts, both by the employer and by the employee, and we must respect those contracts. It would be different if we were in our law, or in the law of our Czech Republic, or if there was a law that would say: There are no contracts on the holiday, and every entrepreneur or any employee can freely decide whether to go to work, whether to open the store. So let's start talking about it, let's leave it the way it is, and we can agree to make a law if we say yes, if it's the entrepreneur, or in his own interest, or in his belief that he's gonna close, no one can order him to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u33	I thank my colleague Bláh. But my colleague Gajdůškovášková will wait because he has applied with a factual remark by Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Vlastimil Válek. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u34	Well, thank you for your word. I'm sorry that a colleague from the same club, that Jirka Bláha here uses private calls from the hallway. So for the context I said, so that it wouldn't just be the version that absolutely corresponds - it wasn't about Germany, it was about Austria, it wasn't about holidays, but it was about Saturday and Sunday. [[He's not answering?]] This was the way the conversation was going, that I was on vacation in Austria for four days, and there was Saturday, Sunday, and it was so messed up that the cafe was open, the restaurant wasn't, the rental of something, the mountain bike rental wasn't. Or you could have borrowed it on Saturday and not come back until Monday. I think it's for those people, as you say, and they're also working, who are at work all year long, and then they're going on vacation, so maybe this is what they're affected by. So if we could arrange it this way, even the employees are in hotels, hotels can just close on Saturdays. In this logic, what a colleague here calls. If I should go on - I didn't want to say it. So when I heard the debate in the hallways, I had this feeling about the debate, and from what I heard, the more of the demagogic opinions that were going on here, the more chance that the Senate version would pass. That even people who wouldn't vote for it will vote for it because they don't agree with this. Again, for the last time, I won't be applying for it. Even if the law were abolished - I don't think it's gonna work out here - but even if it does, it doesn't mean it's an obligation to be open any day of the year. It doesn't mean duty on holidays, eight, sixteen, fourteen, neither on Saturdays, nor on Sundays. I feel like some of my colleagues, and I'm not going to name them, it's that they want to use this to get the state to solve the poorly set-up contracts they have with the operator. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u35	Now Mr Vlastimil Válek's factual comment and one more factual comment by Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I, through Mr President - Mr Bláha always addresses me and so... She is, of course, a number of professions that have a similar problem, but there is no point in getting back to this debate. I just enter the profession under certain conditions, I know them in advance, and either I choose it or I don't choose it. However, I was surprised - and I was really surprised, and if you can comment on this, I would be very grateful, through Mr President, that you said that it was disadvantageous for most of those vendors to sell on Saturday to sell on those weekends. Well, then I'm fascinated by why they sell for God's sakes when they're losing it. I don't feel like I'm going crazy. I'd like some explanation, simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u37	Thank you for your respect for the factual point. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, with a point of fact. And my colleague Gajdůškovášková is ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to thank Patrik here through Mr President for what he said. I think that just because some people listen and listen to the words that we say here, they realize that actually when they go to the elections, they should think about whether we're here for you, for the people, or just for themselves. Because it's about what I'm saying. About us without us. If the majority - and the whole Bakers' Association clearly supported this, the whole Baker's Union - that means that from Brno to Ash, all bakers want to be closed because they just want to be home. But they'll be forced to do it by wholesalers, forced by big customers to deliver. They don't want to deliver. And it's obvious that you haven't experienced much business, what it is when you're pushed into a corner by your customer. And the question that was made here a moment ago. The question is very simple. Most business chains would like to close, but precisely because they don't want to give advantage to their competitors, they don't. That's why they're open, even though they're losing money. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, Martin Jiránek will be ready. My colleague, I'll wait until it's quieter here. Then I'll give you my word right away. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, gentlemen, I am not as old as I remember, and I can therefore remember the genesis of this bill. Don't worry, I'll be brief. The original proposal was a proposal by Senator František Bublan to close the shops on public holidays and actually celebrate the public holidays. I confess that there was high unemployment at the time. It was at a time of crisis, it was 2014, i.e. the end of the crisis. And I had my own doubts about whether people in the store wanted or didn't want them to have the opportunity to go to work or earn money, so I went to ask those salesmen and salesmen. They told me, especially the sales girls, that there are most women in the store who have children: You know, I wouldn't give what it takes to know that I could be with my children on those holidays. First of all, it doesn't pay me much. And second of all, it's not worth it. Then I supported the motion as a senator, signed the motion. He passed, but only on a proposal here from the Chamber of Deputies in 2016. And what are we talking about now? The debate's been going on here a lot, but I think we really need to remind ourselves of what we're talking about. It's actually seven and a half days a year. Named public holidays, after which I really... It's working quiet days, including the fact that the shops are closed. Here I have to say, to think about the small, big business. The original proposal, the reasoning was actually to close the chains, the wholesalers, the markets, where mostly it isn't one private owner who decides whether he wants to or doesn't want to be open. But we left the small business to do it, because mostly there is the owner, the private owner one, often employs his own family, etc. So it's up to them how they decide. But those who go shopping know that the small shops are mostly closed on the other holidays. And let me remind you, which state holidays are to be closed under the current law. It is January 1st - The Day of the Czech Republic, May 8th - The Day of Victory, September 28th - The Day of Czech State, October 28th - The Day of Establishment of the Czechoslovak State. And then, of course, there's Easter and Christmas. I'm saying this here because the reasoning was also clear and quite transparent. Why these days? Because it is connected with Czech statehood. Because it is related to what the Czech state has shaped in history. And we want it to work, and we want it to work. So that people actually have the information to show the state that this is a rare day. This is also important to the state by declaring it basically like days of working peace. [[16.10 hours]] Even if I may, a comment by Mr President on Mr Munzar's speech. He said that it is necessary to respect the free will of customers and shop owners. But, as Mr Bláha has already said, the free will of business owners or entrepreneurs is illusionary in relation to marketing and in relation to the functioning of the market in this context, but, above all, the free will is not for employees. And, of course, we as Social Democrats stand for employees. We stand by them with the weight of most of the employees in the shops being women. And for those, it's important that they know at least seven and a half days a year and be sure that they can be with their families these days. That they're just gonna be free these days. And I think all of us as customers can wish them that solidly. Ladies and gentlemen, one more comment. Senators who, on the one hand, talk hard about patriotism and, on the other hand, a kind of patriotism in relation to Czech statehood bothered them, turned to the Constitutional Court. The Board of the Constitutional Court rejected the proposal of a group of 18 senators to repeal Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on Sales Time in Retail and Wholesale. I can only quote a few sentences from the Constitutional Court's resolution. Don't worry, I won't be long. By the way, it was March 13th of this year. I quote: When assessing the legitimacy of the objective of legal regulation, this objective can be drawn not only from the explanatory report but also from the generally known facts. It is about strengthening social and family cohesion by firmly defining at least a certain dimension of fixed time that people can spend together. The Constitutional Court states that it is the legitimate objective of the law to enable employees in employment to remember the holidays that are part of the Czech cultural and spiritual tradition. I continue: At the same time, the objection of the appellants of the parties to the unacceptable restriction on the right to obtain funds for their living needs cannot be confirmed. While restrictions on sales for seven and a half days a year make it impossible for employees to work on these days, it should be taken into account that even for the remaining 357 and a half days they cannot work with the same employer according to their will, since they are also limited in addition to their physical possibilities by their legal working time and by offering work by the employer. The text goes on. I'll only read from his conclusion. The Constitutional Court concludes that the contested law will stand up to the rationality test. The decision on which public holidays and working days and how many of these days it is appropriate to support the prohibition of certain work activities is a matter of legislative discretion. I believe that our legislative discretion will be such that we allow employees and employees in the store to spend seven and a half days with their families and to know in advance that they will be available to them. Maybe there was still a debate about how it was compared to the world. I will not recite all the states of Western Europe, perhaps just those in our immediate vicinity, that is, in Central European space. Slovakia has closed all operating units on all state and other holidays. Hungary has 14 state and other holidays, when the operating units are also closed. Poland also has 14 state and other holidays and also has operational units closed. Of course, I am not talking about countries like Austria, Germany, there has already been a debate here, and I remind you that colleagues in Poland pushed for the closure of operational units on Sunday last year. This is just for your information that the Czech Republic is going in the opposite direction. Dear colleagues, I believe that the most correct solution would actually be to meet employees and employees in the store and basically not to let any of the proposed options, respectively. maintain the current state of affairs. I don't think he made any trouble. I think it worked, and it should stay that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Gajdůšková. There are two factual points before a colleague of Juránek continues, first President Stanjura, then Jiří Bláha. Before I give my word to Zbyněk Stanjur, the Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík asked for an apology from the next meeting before the end of the meeting day. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u42	Thank you for the floor. I rarely agree with Mrs Gajdůškovášková on anything. Then I'll make an exception. Yes, the law is not unconstitutional, I agree with that, and it is completely useless and sharper words I will not use. I'll support both versions. Of course, the Senate version is better. And now to the fairy tales the lady lady here said. The legislator didn't bring seven and a half days off, but four days. Three and a half days off, imagine those shops were closed on Christmas Eve, the first Christmas holiday, the second Christmas holiday and New Year's Eve. No law! Imagine that. I think we all remember that. So four days. And she spoke nicely about the history of Czech statehood. Why not? Anyone who wants to go to a memorial event. There's not much of us there on October 28th, let's face it, it's not a state holiday that attracts tens of thousands of our citizens to various events organizing cities or states. But, Madam Vice-President, this time I would say that the content of what is stately on Easter Monday and what is this holiday? We're from Moravia - but it's Good Friday and it's business open. And on Easter Monday, it was invented by the Communists, probably to forget Good Friday, so we're celebrating. So if we want to appeal to tradition and Czech statehood, at least on Easter Monday, admit that this is a complete nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by fellow colleague Bláha, Sklenák, Kalousek and Dolínek. First, my colleague Jiří Bláha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add to my colleague Gajdůškovášková that I have the happiness of my life, or the duty that I have been in business for 30 years, 30 years working with people who work from morning to evening, and 25 of which everyone has acknowledged, but the employees have not wanted it for the last five years, but what's more, not even the entrepreneurs want it. So try asking some plumber or plumber if he'll come to your house on the holiday. How many will tell you they're coming because they want to be with their family? And I'd like to ask you, just everyone who says, "We're here for businessmen." About 500,000 of them are small ones. So please, let's do this for the little ones, no matter what the holiday applies to everyone, whenever, any day of the state holiday, and let's not do it as we have so far, that for us entrepreneurs to survive, we often have to start cheating and circumventing the very laws you have proposed here, thanks to your laws and your recommendations. Come listen to the businessmen you're fighting for. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, colleague Sklenák, my colleague Miroslav Kalousek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to President Stanjura's rhetorical question, who asked what kind of Easter Monday holiday this is. In this context, I think we are missing the big picture here in this debate. It is, for it is a holiday that Parliament has marked in this way. And there is also a certain code of work in our legal order. And the labor code says that on public holidays and other holidays, there are days of peace of mind. And on days of rest, it is only possible to order workers to do a job that cannot be done on another working day. And that is the point, because, of course, we have professions here, such as civil servants, such as workers, such as teachers, and they are free of work. And then we have professions like doctors, police officers, firemen, and they are not free because their activities cannot be postponed for another working day. And actually, the dispute that we've been having here for the second term is whether those vendors and the cashiers at the supermarket are doing the kind of profession that we could do the seven days of the year without, or if we can't do without them, because if anyone gets hungry for New Year's Eve, then it has to be open so that he doesn't have a problem. So that's the argument, and that's what Easter Monday is all about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Petr Dolínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u48	Thank you for the floor. Just allow me to make a comment on my two previous speakers under the Rules of Procedure. Mr Stanjura asked what kind of holiday this is related to Czech statehood, Easter Monday. Mr Sklenák told him that he would answer, and there was a speech that I dare to say that he really did not answer. We still do not know what holiday related to Czech statehood is Easter Monday. You didn't explain that. And to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, when she spoke that it was thought out and transparent, that it was really those holidays that were related to Czech statehood, so, first of all, here we have Easter Monday, and secondly, there is huge discrimination against saints. If it has to be closed on svatý Václav' Day, on the Day of Czech Statehood, and on svatý Metoděj, who baptized svatý Václav's grandfather, can be opened, then I would see it as discrimination if I were from Moravia. And we should all appeal to discrimination. And Mr Bláha, allow me to rejoice when he asked us and said: do something for those entrepreneurs, forbid them anything. I'm convinced that the most we can do for businessmen is not to forbid or order them, and we'll just leave it up to them. They'll decide if they're open. They'll decide if they're closed. That's what I think is the fairest approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. These have multiplied - now Petr Dolínek, then colleague Stanjura, Nacher, Gajdůškovášková, Sklenák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u50	Thank you. They decide to open up, call the legion of their employees, so on Easter Monday, those mothers won't see their kids who want to fuck them up, and they'll go to work at 5:00 in the morning to open the big stores. Not the businessman! He's home. Do you think any Makra manager is ever at work on Easter Monday? He's at home with his wife, maybe a long weekend by the sea. But the woman's behind the register. That's what we're talking about today. Not that we forbid businessmen, but that an entrepreneur can order his employees to leave their family for a public holiday and go to work. First thing. [[The MP speaks very loudly and strongly. Colleagues warn him not to scream so much.]] Second thing. Both social democracy and I can speak here for our colleagues in the KSČM benches, long-term wanted all these holidays to be there. Please don't take advantage of the selection made by the House by random selection, almost, of the fact that we originally proposed all the public holidays to be there. So don't turn it into a weapon from something that the Chamber of Deputies themselves have crooked. I am not going to vote for either of these proposals, because I think it's very right that employees can stay at home. If the businessman wants to do business, let Makra's Makro sit behind that cash register on Easter Monday and sell something to whoever needs it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's factual comment, then Mr Patrik Nacher, who did not stand and applied again. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u52	The first response to Mr Dolínek. My conscience is clear. Who voted in favour of choosing random holidays? Social Democrats, Communists, or ODS? You're complaining about yourself. But rare self-criticism is often not heard in the House, I must appreciate that. And then I am always embarrassed to respond to Mr Bláha's speech because he contradicts himself. He's both for and against at the same time. And now I don't know which one of his attitudes I'm supposed to be thinking is that he's in or out. What did he just say to us? The craftsmen won't come to you for the state holiday. They're closed. Try making a phone call. And in the next sentence, he says, "Why are you sending them to work?" The little ones and the change. Why are you sending them? So first he tells you he doesn't go there, and I fully respect it, it's their choice, who wants to, honors the holiday, who doesn't want to, works, it's his choice. But in the second sentence, he'll say why you're sending them there by law. So, what's the deal, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? And the capitalism of the 19th century, as Mr Dolínek described here. Don't turn these entrepreneurs into people who don't work. I know it's convenient for you -- this businessman is sitting at home, and all he does is look at the bill in the morning and tells us how much more he's got. Hooray. How would I spend it? An extended weekend somewhere by the sea. It's a cartoon business. Go among the businessmen, among the small businessmen. Don't talk about the few billionaires. By the way, he's your Prime Minister, also a billionaire. Just like you guys make it sound really good. So don't tell me how the businessman doesn't do anything, he's just counting the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher. A colleague of Sklenák will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u54	I'm sorry, I'm not gonna make that promise next time that I won't sign up, 'cause sometimes I can't. So it was said here that it was to be closed where it was necessary. Then why isn't it closed in restaurants, cafes? How about in these, I don't know, castles, castles? That's where the families are going to spend their time because you planned it for them. And now it's gonna be closed. So if anything, everywhere, let's make it consistent. Or aren't the employees there? Is that where the second-rate employees are? Well, that's one thing. And the other thing. It was said here, I also find it a cartoon of business, where it is described that the entrepreneur is the one who does nothing, and employees work 12 hours a day. Okay. That's where the 200-meter line is. So what if he's some businessman who's got a retail establishment that's 200 feet tall, and he's on his own. Well, according to this current law, he can't. So he'd go out there and sell out of that bunk. Or maybe it's a family business, or he'd send a daughter, a son. And he can't. So that's not true. You're simply limiting yourself by doing this. While the cancellation doesn't order anyone to do anything. That's the philosophical misunderstand. That's probably why we'll never understand each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague Roman Sklenák, Jiří Bláha, Petr Dolínek, Martin Kupka. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u56	Yes, I have two notes. As a memoir, I can answer the question as to why this particular holiday was chosen by the petitioner at the time. He explained it from this place in the last parliamentary term, it was Senator František Bublan. Basically, he was led to try to find a compromise. He was here explaining that he was discussing this with the big chains and trying to find some compromise so that the holidays would be closed. And he knew that if he wanted to make all the holidays then it would be more difficult. So it's just the result of some compromise. That's just to explain who wasn't here then. In the second point, I would like to respond to President Kalousek, who has thus told me that my de facto was not in the spirit as it should have been, so hopefully it will now be. When he, but not just him, was also Mr Skopeček and others who say the idea "Don't interfere, don't want to regulate everything, leave it to the entrepreneurs." He literally said, they're gonna decide if they're gonna be open. So I understand, Mr President, that you would like to take it up with the workers' professions and the civil servants, that we might cancel those days of working peace, not just on holidays, but also on Saturdays and Sundays, and leave it the way it was centuries ago, only on the bosses when they call the employees to work? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm supplementing the list I read about my colleague Bendl and Kalousek. Now, then, Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Dolínek will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the recording and I will be happy to give you an answer. As I meant it, it is precisely that you were not here, my colleague, so you could not hear everything I said, so I apologise through the President and I will just explain. If we open a wholesale store that owns a foreign owner who doesn't really care whether someone's having a holiday or not, he's only interested in selling his goods that come from abroad, or if he opens a large chain of multinationals, who doesn't care whether we have a holiday or not, he's just gonna get the change to deliver the goods they deliver to him on a normal working day. At that point, the small and small must be filled and opened, they must call their employees, and they must go to work. So let's open the Chamber of Deputies, let's open the institutions, let's open the regions - and it'll be transparent. Why wouldn't we? Even a normal person wants to go on a holiday to do his own business, and he won't have to take a day off or a vacation. Plus, there's one thing I'd like to add, and it's Christmas Eve and the holidays. So on Christmas Eve, until it was approved as a state holiday, it worked. It was open everywhere until 5:00 p.m. The first holiday was mostly tolerated, the second Christmas holiday was always open. It's been like this for 30 years. For the past two years, all three days have been a holiday. But only for the last two years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I didn't interrupt my colleague Bláha, but please don't make me do the elevated noise level, because I wouldn't know how to measure it, and I'd count it by guessing, I could hurt someone, and I wouldn't want that. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of my colleague Petr Dolínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u60	Thank you. I appreciate the words of my colleague Bláha, but unfortunately he's a little mixed up with the little businessmen and the employees. I dare say that, as a social democracy, we appreciate the small businessmen, and the law first arose because of the employees. Because I understand some of the reservations that are - let the businessman do business. But the point is, an employee doesn't determine what the businessman does. But I'm glad we feel the same way that the businessman wants to have some conditions for his family and his background. Second thing. You know, I remember the last time we talked about one thing here, and that's that I overheard from the ODS here that to be pro-Western, that the proof of the West is that we allow alcohol - and now I don't know whether it's behind the wheel or on the boat or on the bike, and that the west is having alcohol in the blood when I'm driving something. Well, what I'd like to say is that if we want to go west, the pro-Western is sometimes closed, too. That's also in the West. So let's either go west completely, or we'll just pick the alcohol and leave it open everywhere. So let's consider which is the right way to go in the west. I think a valuable compromise, i.e. Let people with families for a few days, but talk about what you're saying again. I have perceived your arguments in the past discussions and let you also see ours and let us try to find a compromise. And then there's this light-hearted thing. You know, as I heard from my colleague about the Labor Code, we currently have 322 points of the program, maybe after today 325 points of the House program. We can bet that after our grand meeting of two weeks and one variable, 270-260 points remain. We are thus fulfilling the absolutely factual nature of the Labour Code that we are unable to work out what we are paid for in our classic working hours. Let's just say that the public holidays we have next year, that the Chamber of Deputies will sit on all the public holidays and work off the rest that we've accumulated here. Will you all set an example? Will you sit here? We're gonna work from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u61	Mr. Colleague, time for a point of fact is over. Now, colleague Petr Bendl, a colleague of Stanjura will be prepared because colleague Kalousek has withdrawn his application for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u62	Thank you for the floor. I didn't originally want to perform, either, because I feel like we're all clear. Those who want to give room to agree to, like, trade unions with the markets, they're more likely to cancel this nonsense. Those of you who want to organize life for others will insist that this stays that way, because it is a public holiday already known by the House, and therefore it is necessary to celebrate them. All I have to tell you is that I don't think it's possible for God to pay anybody here that if I speak for myself, because I'm in a conflict of interest here, because I'm a small businessman and you can't ban me from going to work because I have to feed these animals every day and I have to take care of them... Maybe somebody here didn't catch that when you were taking the 500,000 small businessmen into your mouth, who are so-called. they can make time when they want to. I mean, that's not true. On the contrary, when they need the time most, they have to do something, because at that point, there's a job that pays off and needs to be done. It's completely backwards. Usually just at the time when everyone else is free because they can sort things out that they don't normally have time for, so the little ones just have to enlist to help, whether it's electricity or plumbing, and I don't know what else. It really seems like a petty thing to me. I think if we cancel completely, nothing will happen, nothing major will happen. On the contrary, I think that we will function perfectly normally as many other bodies that have to work as we do in agriculture, regardless of whether Parliament wants it or not, we simply need to appear in those fields and between the cattle when it needs to, and not when Parliament is going to force it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u63	Thank you. And now, colleague Stanjura, with a point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u64	I must respond to Mr Dolínek's speech. I think we all understand the role of a Member differently. I'm not here to approve 322 points or 150 bills at this meeting. My constituents expect me and us to defend the bad laws your government proposes. And within our limited powers, we do so. So if 322 points were left with 305, I think it's only good for our country. So it's not our job to approve every nonsense bill you come up with, and certainly not fast. We respect the majority, we'll probably lose eventually, but we won't give you anything for free. And fence here with numbers that so many more and so many points lie... Well, that's your shame, the government majority. We're in the middle of the parliamentary term and we've got 322 on the pile -- maybe we've got something, 325 points. What's it gonna look like next year? Well, that'll be 400 points or more. But you're organizing a House meeting. So don't complain. And don't measure the power of the House by the number of laws passed, that's a completely wrong point of view. This is how some journalists assess the Member's performance, whether he has 99 or 90 per cent of the vote, of which 50 per cent is about whether point 1 will be at 12 or at one or Tuesday or Wednesday, none of these statistics will take it out. What should we talk about today? There were 114 members of the Chamber of Deputies who, according to today's decision by the Constitutional Court, knowingly violated Article 1 of the Constitution and adopted a law that went against the democratic rule of law in the Czech Republic. And you were among them, dear Social Democrats!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr. Petr Dolínek's factual comment is still prepared by Mr. Jiránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u66	I'm sorry, for the last time. Mr President, through Mr President, I was a friend myself. That's 60 of your opposition laws. I wanted them to finally be discussed. So I come in here with my heart on a plate and you yell at me again that I want to work off your laws. Well, I'd just like to say a third of the program is your points. I'm interested in discussing them. You can refuse our points. We can support some of yours, and many of them are also good, and I think you are also voting on some of the government's things. But this thing is different. It's a shame that we want people to go to work, and we let our jobs fall apart.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual remark from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u68	Well, if Mr. Dolínek's being kind enough, I'll take his word for it. Tomorrow morning, I'm going to propose ten opposition points as points 1 to 10 of the program, and I'm curious about what you and your coalition partners are going to do about this vote. I'm taking you seriously. So tomorrow at 9.01 I'm gonna be reading our bills, which, you're right, they've been here for over a year. This morning, all the participants in the Grémia Chamber of Deputies meeting can testify to me that I was upset that I wanted our bills to be discussed. Then show it to the vote tomorrow. And not just you alone as one. Remember how heroically you were looking for signatures to call off our current meeting manager. How many Social Democrats have you convinced? Zero! Yeah - Roman Onderka signed it, too? So I'm sorry, one. We all signed it. Well, if you're gonna be looking for support to discuss our opposition proposals like this, we're not gonna be moving much. But it'll show up in the morning. I'm really gonna suggest it. And I don't want to hear that you have more important government points. There really is no more important point than our proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u70	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, Zbyněk Stanjura, through you, is, of course, an extremely skillful chairman of the opposition club, we all know that, and there is no need to prove it anymore. However, I have to look back on the pissing about who signed or signed for social democracy. As with the discussion of the parliamentary proposals, we have been discussing the situation correctly today at the political grémium of the House. We've come to an agreement that we will act, there will be a meeting, we want to make a deal. So I don't think those words are appropriate. And the only thing that Petr Dolínek, by your means, Mr President, apparently wanted to say is that we have been debating this matter for a long time, we have known our views, apparently all the arguments have already fallen, and let us come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Pavel Kováčik. Mr President, you have time to make a point of fact, I'm measuring two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u72	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I'm just talking about the debate that's going on here about the opposition bills - I'd support it too. But, you know, it's in a situation where, and now I'm going to help myself with one inscription, which is carved in many cemeteries above the gate, towards my colleague, the chairman of the ODS Club: "What you are, we were. What we are, you will be." So where were you when we were in a situation where our bills went from the beginning of the term to the end of the term? And when we demanded - what about opposition windows, we would be satisfied with an opposition loophole, which at least at first reading would extend the bills proposed by the KSČM from opposition benches, and you argued here - not that you were not there, you were there - and you claimed that there were more important government proposals. So please, nicely, I'm in favour of all the bills being discussed. I have even personally presented a proposal here to amend the Rules of Procedure so that bills and other points are discussed in the order as they run out, that is, according to the press numbers. And since I suggested it at a time when the government was completely different from this one, it was a proposal for which only we communists voted. So the historical memory tells me that I'm in favour of discussing draft laws in the order in which they come. But it has to be true for everyone and for all election periods. If we can make a deal like this, then believe me, everything will go faster and to greater satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Martin Jiránek, Mr Petr Pávek, will prepare himself. We will return, believe it, to the text of the bill returned to the Senate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u74	Thank you. I'm just wondering how to start, because after this, it's really hard to follow up on the subject at hand. Well, I'll give it a shot. We talked here about various topics related to the selling time, i.e. We talked about it whether we don't talk to businessmen about when they open or not. We discussed, of course, that doctors, nurses, policemen and others have to go to work. We discussed that people could find another job if they didn't want to go to work on holidays. My point of view is a little different. The whole development of human society in recent centuries is largely based on having to go to work less and less. To give us more time to live. That's why we invent machines, robots, production systems, digitize, increase productivity and shorten working hours. In a few decades, if we can handle climate change as a human being, a week of work will be enough maybe 30 hours, or just 20. And even different company practice surveys and various national experiments show that when people work only 30 hours a week, they are happier, they have a happier family life, etc. And we know that the Čech are working more on average than most Evropan. A year, even hundreds of hours in order. That is why I think that we should not weigh here whether we do or not, they can or cannot change people's jobs, whether - yes or not - we interfere with entrepreneurs' freedom of business. Or whether it's fair or unfair to doctors and nurses. In which I believe, in time, we can allow those doctors to be home at Christmas. But I think we should weigh that we are a sufficiently advanced society to somehow aim higher. We here should help to find a broad social consensus and ways for as many people as possible on at least a few public holidays a year to guarantee a day off, so that they can do whatever they want. Let them be home with their family or just go fishing. Just because it improves the mood between people, the well-being of society. Hundreds of millions of Evropan have already done it. They found no chaos, as a colleague Skopeček named it, but they found a political and social consensus that they would somehow restrict sales. It's either the holidays or Sundays. And thanks to that, millions of employees, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, of course, can at least be at home with their family on the holidays and watch fairy tales. And either we Čech will continue to be among them after today or we will not. The signal to people, as we in Parliament see it, will certainly be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u75	Thank you. Mr Petr Pávek now. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I could have been done in ten seconds because I was assigned to give you the opinion of the Mayors and Independents Club. We'll support the Senate version, and that might be the end of it. Allow me, however, a few personal notes. The reason we support the Senate version is because you left a mess here in the Sales Time Act. It is not about any strong attitude at all whether or not to work on the holidays. It's just that it's very unsystemic. Some of us, like me, are much more liberal, so they tend not to regulate things when it's not necessary, but some understand that it would simply mean relief for those employees in big stores - but seven and a half days? What does that mean for seven and a half days? So why doesn't the novel sound like it's just not gonna sell at the holidays? Everyone understands that. It's a holiday, it's red in my calendar, OK, so it just doesn't sell. Many of us elders still remember that. That's not the problem. [[16.50 hours]] What I don't like here is the promotion of a profession. I understand, through the President, the lack of knowledge held by my colleague Bláha to the bakers. I understand other people who were picking up salesmen and salesmen, etc. In fact, it's a very limited view. You know, and it's already been mentioned here, so I'm not going to elaborate that there are hundreds, hundreds of professions that don't have that choice that have to go to that job that has an exchange operation that works at night, from which you require services starting with refueling at the pump and ending with medical care or medical intervention. So the problem with this novel isn't saying "we won't, we won't protect those employees during the holidays," but the fact that there's a real mess in it, which holiday does, which I can't, when I can't go, when I can't go, etc. It's over-regulated, and it's completely unnecessary. So, for the starosta, independent and self-serving, we strongly support the Senate version, which brings it back to zero. And if any of you have the ambition, come up with a new bill to make sense and not to mess with both the rule of law and the habits of ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u77	I thank my colleague Pávek. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar with a proper application, and this is the last one entered into the debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. I finally signed up for a proper debate rather than react here, although my tongue itches on many factual remarks here by colleagues on my left hand. I want to say that this situation, in which we find ourselves, and in particular the debate that has been going on here today, shows in its full nudity the absurdity of the ban on sales in shops over 200 square meters on selected holidays. My colleague Mihola asked here about the philosophy of public holidays. They remind us of the milestones of our history and our tradition. That's why I like them. I don't like them just because it takes time off. But there's no reason for the state to forbid anyone and order what to do about the public holidays. Personally, I do not think that the role of the state is to ban some - and I stress the word to some - traders when to sell, where to sell, and to customers, when and where to buy. That should really be a free decision the state has no say in. The ban was allegedly introduced in the name of protecting employees, but it seems to me that it has been introduced in the name of social engineering and a constant desire to speak into people's lives. The protection of employees, which is argued by ČSSD representatives here today, when you take it, does not apply to shops of up to 200 square meters, does not apply to petrol stations, railway stations, bus stations, airports or shops in health establishments, does not apply to employees in hospitality, are also employees in cinemas, cultural facilities, all those employees in stands at cultural events on public holidays, they are also employees - so you here protect parts of employees - parts - you create actually legal inequality. Big stores over 200 square meters, even if they want to sell today, they're bad luck. But businessmen, like the smaller ones in closed business centers, are unfortunately unlucky, even if they wanted to. And this shows how every such regulation by the state and by the power of the legislative distorts the market. The overall ban on sales thus points to a clear inequality. Whoever has 190 square meters today can sell, who has a shop that has more than 200 square meters can't sell. The decision made here and the last House and put a line there, unfathomable to me, unreasonable, 200 square meters, created unequal market conditions. And every similar intervention by the state into the free market creates such an inequality by regulation. I would still like to respond to Mr Bláha through Mr President, who said here the sentence that we are making decisions here without us. But that's what you do. You want the House to decide on the people of this country, to take their free decisions in the name of their own and the particular interests that you have said here. But I think it's clear here. There is the effort of a group of Members who feel some internal strain to determine people's lives and the daily lives of people, and there is a group of Members to whom I belong who do not have this inner desire at all costs to speak to people in their daily lives. The vote shall be decided. I hope that common sense and the free will of people will prevail, and not this desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u79	Thank you. My colleague Munzar was the last one, but I still have two factual points - colleagues Jiří Mihola and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Now, Mr Jiří Mihola, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u80	Thank you. I must respond to my colleague Munzar through you. The problem is that many colleagues are not here all the time, they do not hear everything that has been said here, either repeat themselves or react completely senselessly afterwards. Let's not beg you to believe that someone wants to organize something for someone. Who ever said that! Did it ever ring a bell? Can you find it in the steven record that someone wants to organize time for someone? Or a day off? Lots of mistakes, though. Here comes the term social engineering. I wouldn't take much for social engineering, Mr. Colleague. Look out! How about Bata? I don't know how many of us are going to Baťa's place, but we're going to fence and degenerate the term social engineering. If we understand him properly. And the philosophy of state holidays? If it doesn't matter as my colleague Munzar said a moment ago, then a memorable day is enough. Then it doesn't have to be a state holiday at all. We'd be fine here. And when the state and colleagues, probably yours, decided on some public holidays after 1989, then the state certainly has the right to enter and regulate it, as it is in those other countries. And I would add to my colleague Pávek through you - you know, the easiest thing to do is to make the novel where it unites. That's what we've often talked about here, which is what was mostly argued. I'll get her ready. I believe, Mr. Colleague Pávek and other mayors, that you will support her. I believe that there is also a second part of the House and that it will join YES, because the surveys show that these measures do not bother anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u81	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková's factual comment. And once again, I ask for peace, because these are factual remarks, and I would like to be able to measure time for everyone equally. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u82	Thank you. Hurry up. Mr Mihola said a lot of what had to be said as a response. I will only add so much to this to Mr Munzar through Mr President. It's just weird that he can't understand what's necessary and what's necessary. And that's actually what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u83	Thank you for keeping time. Another colleague Jiří Bláha, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, this is our last chance to keep this situation as it is, and to prevent mass action against those who feel harmed. Because that's where it sounded. From the point of view of the Labour Code, an entrepreneur has the right to order an extraordinary shift only when the business or other matters need to be maintained. And that's when what happens? Those who want to defend themselves, if we put the situation back, will, of course, file a mass lawsuit against the state to demand this, and in that moment, what will happen? No one's gonna be able to be open. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u85	Thank you for keeping time. We have other factual points - colleague Stanjura, Václav Klaus, Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u86	Unlike Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, I do not have the right to decide for all our citizens what is necessary for them and what is necessary for them. However, in the spirit of the social democratic bill, which the Member so vehemently defends, sales up to 200 metres are necessary, sales over 200 metres are necessary, and serving alcoholic beverages in restaurants is essential. I reject the logic of the world, I have another, but why not? [[17,00 hours]] And to Mr Bláh. I think if we just read the provisions of the Labour Code, any, without context, we'll just come to absurd conclusions, just like he did a while ago. Certainly he himself, if he operated one of his shops or manufacturing plants on Saturdays and Sundays, can imagine a work contract where he has signed it, and when it comes to a work contract, even with an employee. It's not against the Labour Code. Don't bring up any mass lawsuits here, because whether someone likes it or not, signing a employment relationship is a two-way street act. Both the employer and the employee must agree. And if the employees do not like the conditions offered by the employer, they simply do not sign such a contract, especially during this happy period, when there is really zero unemployment and all entrepreneurs - I do not want to say all, many entrepreneurs and perhaps many employers, and perhaps it has reached Mr Bláh too, they are complaining of a lack of labour. Perhaps you've heard that, Mr. Ambassador, too. I hear it today and every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u87	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus will now speak. Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u88	Hello. Members of the Tricolore movement will support the Senate version, and if they fail, at least the MP. Why, I've said it several times. But a factual remark serves as a response to the previous speakers. I would stand up for colleagues from another political side, Mr Munzar, because Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, by your means, is every thing that she considers necessary and necessary. For example, I personally consider it necessary for you to perform in the House, but that doesn't give me the right to shout at anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u89	Mr Nacher, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, then factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u90	I'm not going to comment on what's necessary and what's necessary anymore. That's what Stanjura said. I'd just like to ask my colleague Bláha to use the exact terms when he goes to this microphone, because it's pretty serious what's going on here. I took notes. I have a feeling he said earlier that 20,000 people supported some referendum. Rather, he meant a petition, not a referendum. He was just talking about mass lawsuits. There is no institute of mass lawsuits in our country. I didn't understand the content at all, or what it's supposed to mean is that if we approve something here right now, there'll be mass lawsuits that don't exist in our country. I really wanted to ask my colleagues, everyone who knows how to vote, every performance like this gets another vote from the other side. I don't understand why a colleague does that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u91	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, with a point of fact. He's downloading a factual remark. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura is in favour of the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state and repeat the SPD's position on this bill. This bill, I must say, has been with me since the beginning of my political career, because that time Mr. Bublan came to the Senate for ČSSD in 2012. Remarkably, even though the Senate had a majority of the ČSSD at the time, the majority of the Senate was the ČSSD, so we rejected it there. And it's interesting how plastic is in a short time for some reason ČSSD and for some reason ČSSD is suddenly promoting it. I myself witnessed in 2013 when I was a senator because I became a senator in October 2012, and then I arrived there in 2013, as the CSSD largely rejected it there. And now we hear here - even Mrs Gajdůškovášková was there at the time through the President, which means she witnessed the CSSD itself rejecting it. Completely different sentences and completely different floscule. So you can see right here, I'd say, and I've already said it, the plasticity, just the elasticity of the opinion, basically the inconclusiveness of the CSSD. Then Senator Bublan tried to suggest it one more time after the election, when the composition changed a little bit. And it's interesting that even though the Senate's composition stopped being as leftist as it was for me, he got away with it. So that's another interesting thing - the plasticity of other political parties. This is an absolutely incredible situation. But the SPD is still consistent in the plasticity of the other parties, and so am I. I said in 2013 in the Senate, I was elected one of the poorest regions or districts of the Czech Republic, it is Slovácko in the Zlín Region, and I did a survey among citizens at the time, among voters, whether they would want us to do, force closing days on those public holidays or not. And what's interesting is that in my opinion, and I've been circling literally all the municipalities and cities, it seemed to me that in this senate district, most of them were opposed to the restrictions on opening hours. And there wasn't even an argument, and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková here, through the President, was from a neighbouring senate district, and there wasn't even an argument that they wanted to be free. There were two arguments. I asked how they felt about it. The first was that there's no big hypermarket in that senate district so they can buy cheaply that the hypermarkets are all the way to Zlín. But he wasn't even in Uherské Brod, he wasn't in Otrokovice, there's a piece of Zlin, and they weren't even on Slovak. This means that people can shop cheaply in a big hypermarket, they really often need a day off to get the 20 kilometers with their family all the way to Zlín, actually to the Malenos and so on. So in order for citizens to buy cheaply, they would basically welcome it to be as open as possible. I asked them about the money argument. On the contrary, what people were telling me was very happy that they could earn any day, because the salaries, the average wages in Slovak are so low - unfortunately, it's a disgrace to the governments so far, I've always been in opposition, I haven't had any influence on it - it's basically so low that even those citizens have said, we'd like to earn, if possible, when we could go to work. This means, from this point of view, I have always consistently held an opinion, which I at least registered in the Zlin Region, in the Slovak language, that citizens are opposed, and I defend my constituents, to restrict opening hours. At the same time, I'm saying on behalf of SPD "B," and B is that we insist that people working in stores be properly paid. That's very important. In order to create such conditions - and it is up to the government again, and citizens are complaining about it, and the government isn't doing it - to actually pay the workers for the overtime, for the work on public holidays. It is also a question of employment law, so that the rights of employees are not actually reduced, that they are not restricted and that the employee actually has an adequate employment environment so that it is not used or abused, but that his position is always dignified. That's the SPD's position. We will therefore vote in favour of the Senate proposal, then, if it is rejected, we will vote in favour of the House proposal. But I say again, it's not because of the Senate, nor thanks to the House, I have a consistent position when I wasn't even in the House, and when I was an independent senator alone, and the whole time this proposal is being dragged here. I was just pointing out the plasticity, the incredible flexibility of these other parties, especially the ČSSD, as it changes, their opinions, in a very short time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u93	Thank you. Mr Onderka and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will take a real note after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, through the President, Mr Okamura, if social democracy is plastic, you are as rubbery as the ball that reflects from country to ceiling and back. Stop insulting social democracy. That there is a discrepancy between the members of one party, including social democracy, with the senators in the context of the negotiation of certain laws is a common matter. If you haven't noticed, I suggest you read a few prints and a little bit of history. As far as continuous operation is concerned with the work on holidays, I recommend that you ask those who are in the Chamber of Deputies who have done such work. Specifically, I'd like to explain it to you, because I've been working in continuous traffic for over ten years. And I know what it's like not to be home with my kid for vánoce, I know what it's like not to be with my friends on New Year's Silvestr, I know what it's like to go to work every time an employer whistles. It's about the fact that you can't choose because you either go to work or you're out of a job. Which I understand is that you don't understand because you've never had a problem like that. And I ask you, through Mr President, for the second and last time - stop picking on social democracy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u95	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's point of fact, followed by the factual remark made by Vice-President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u96	So just really seriously. First of all, I'll speak for myself. I have already signed the first proposal to introduce public holidays as days of working peace and restrictions on selling time. Two. Social democracy in the Senate, I don't know that it has an absolute majority. We had the strongest club, that's right. So I object to statements to the address of social democracy. And I'd grow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u97	Thank you. President Okamura - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u98	I would now respond, through Mr President, to both previous speakers. I know you had a majority, so look at 2012. And the other thing. I will not be insulted here by Mr Onderka. I've been working - not that I've been paid in continuous shift traffic like you may have been. In the first five or six years of my business, I imported Japanese tourists, even held an urgent line 24 hours a day when they were robbed, some pickpocket, lost their passport when they got sick, so that we could go to the hospital with them urgently at midnight. I couldn't when I wanted to go to the movies, so I sat at the movies at the edge so I could leave at any time, and I had to run. I couldn't even go swimming because I couldn't have my phone on me, and it was in the beginnings of cell phones. Unlike you, perhaps I had to pay for it myself even as I was not even paid, and it was 24 hours a day when I worked from morning to night and had to feed myself. samý! And I must say that every travel agency that is even on the market operates such an urgent line. Everyone, if anything happens to a client, so that they can accommodate the client immediately 24 hours a day. And since at the time I started, it was probably just me with two employees or one, and I didn't want to burden my colleagues because they didn't speak Japanese, so I was there alone who knows Japanese, so for this reason I did it myself for years. Alone 24 hours a day. So stop lying here, stop making up ideas, stop blaming them, stop fucking your people again! I just insist that you change your mind plasticly, and then Mr. Bublan, when he suggested it here in the Senate, it just didn't work out, even though most of you were, and now you just changed your mind. That's right. And stop here with these personal innuendoes, because I've worked my whole life and I've never parasited on public money like some exponents of some parties my whole life!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u99	Mr Onderka's point of fact follows, and then Mr Válek's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through your person, Mr. Okamura, you once again presented a rubber ball. Upstairs, upstairs. I say again - you say: I will not be insulted. If you think I'm gonna be insulted, you're goddamn wrong! I'm not twenty or twenty-five. I've spent my whole life on my own, too, and when we took the train to the railroad, so before I went to bed, I realized one crucial thing, that when I woke up, I'd ask if the train had arrived, because I had that responsibility all the time while I was sleeping. Each of us has some life experience. I say only one thing: Stop insulting other colleagues in this room and no one will insult you as well. Although I think I've only expressed my opinion of what you really are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u101	Thank you. Mr Válek, followed by Mr Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I'm just being precautionary, if anyone felt that I'd offended him, I didn't mean to offend him. I wanted to support, through Mr President, the idea that has been made here by Mr Nacher - let us stop. I think it's pointless to debate who was a bigger punk when he was still working and he wasn't an MP, and whether he was breathing or going to the bathroom or eating or what he was doing at the job. I've never worked because I'm a doctor, doctors don't work. So let's talk about this law, let's vote on it, let's move it somewhere and prove to the citizens what they're watching, that we're working in Parliament, and not just when we've been punks in our jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u103	Thank you. No further factual point is recorded electronically at the moment, no one is even reporting for the debate, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. It is. Mr. Senator Nwelati has room for the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I saw the atmosphere here that you're sewing a little bit into yourself, perhaps I can calm it down a little bit by saying hello to all 81 senators from the Senate. I had a pretty long speech prepared, but since all the arguments I was going to use here, they fell from the supporters of repealing Act No. 223/2016 Sb., so I will not repeat them, but I will say a few words anyway. When the law was passed, two arguments were used as to why it is necessary to limit de facto opening hours, first of all, to protect employees in shops over 200 square meters, meaning the sales area. And the second argument was to prevent people or families from spending the whole day in business homes when it's a holiday. Those were the main reasons that were mentioned here in order for the law to be passed at that time. The argument that we protect employees may be true, but only partially. And from this point of view, I consider the law discriminatory. And it's discriminatory to both entrepreneurs and employees, because here we divide entrepreneurs into those who have shops of up to 200 square meters, and they can de facto do business, we don't order them to sell on holidays, and then there are entrepreneurs who have an area of over 200 square meters, and they de facto have to abide by this law and they can't open up, even though their employees might want to. I'm not saying that, but it can happen. It is also discriminatory to employees, because we are here protecting employees only of those employers who have the area above 200 square meters, and even part of the employees, because there are some employers who have an area above 200 square meters, such as football stadium, and there are football matches. All the employees who have to take care of the football game have to come. Now I admit I didn't count how many square feet of football stadium, but I assume it's more than 200. So this law is discriminatory. And if anybody's been lashing out by bringing class action if this law is repealed, because someone's gonna force someone to go to work if they don't want to, or if they don't, and they're gonna order it. I don't remember that before this law was passed, that is, before 2016, there were some mass lawsuits. That's why if the law is repealed, I don't expect there to be mass lawsuits. And if I wanted to use this demagogy backwards, I'd say if this bill wasn't abolished, then there could be mass lawsuits from those employees that we didn't protect by this law. Why does the cleaning lady in the theatre have to go de facto to work on the holidays listed here, the eight holidays, unlike the shopkeeper who has over 200 square meters? Therefore, I would really like to ask you to consider whether this law is necessary, whether it really does not discriminate only part of the employees, or whether it gives an advantage only to parts of the employees, and I would ask you very much, try to join the motion that came from the Senate and support its abolition. [[17.20 hours]] Otherwise, the last thing I want to point out here is that by repealing the law, we don't order anyone to open their shop on the holidays. All we're giving him is a chance to make a deal with his employees and have a free choice if he wants to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-001-002.u105	Thank you. Is Mr Nacher interested in the final word? [[I don't.]] He's not interested in the final word. [[Gong.]] In that case, I have called for Members who are not present in the Chamber and we shall proceed to the vote. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises from 17.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on sales time in retail and wholesale, according to the House press 200/6, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 200/7.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 179 Members signed in, for 68, against 73. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. So we will now vote again, in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The number of votes required is set. So I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on Sales Time in Retail and Wholesale, as amended by the Senate, according to the House's Press 200/6." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 180 Members signed in, for 132, against 34. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, Senator Nwelati, and I am done discussing this point. Next we'll look at point number
