ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u1	15. Proposal of the Prague City representative for the Act amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on trades and trades (business law), as amended /German press 247/ - second reading On behalf of the council of the proposed bill, the councillor of the capital city of Prague, doktor Hana Kordová Marvanová, who I welcome here, will state, and before he takes the floor, that the proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the economic committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 247/2 to 5. Now, Councilwoman, if you're ready, I'll give you my word, and I'll ask colleagues and colleagues who are discussing either the past press or any other topic to bring the discussions into the foyer. [[There's still noise in the hall.]] Just wait a little longer. Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a proposal for an amendment to the Trade Act and I would therefore like your attention to speak to the councilwoman of the capital city of Prague, doktor Hana Kordová Marvanová. Neither are colleagues from the Mayors at rest, nor are former colleagues from the ODS at rest. [[Mrs. Kordová Marvanová: How so?]] Well, I hope you're screaming it, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members, allow me to present to you at second reading a proposal from the representative of the capital city of Prague to issue a law amending the trade law. This law was already passed in the last term of the Prague City Representation, because not only Prague, but some other historic cities are experiencing a serious problem, which is the poor quality of the provision of guide services. It can be said that the Czech Republic is a world cultural power. A number of laws express a significant public interest in the protection of cultural values, cultural monuments, etc. Unfortunately, this principle, this public interest has not been reflected in the trade law for eleven years and the legislation is such that no expertise is required to carry out guide services today. That is why tourists meet - and we often watch this in Prague - with the fact that they are provided with unqualified guides completely misleading, false information about the cultural wealth of Prague and the Czech Republic. Our proposal is motivated by the aim of changing this and introducing a certain higher expertise for carrying out the activities of guides. Therefore, the representative of the capital city of Prague decided to take advantage of the legislative initiative of Prague as a region and to submit an amendment to the trade law. The proposal originally proposed that this trade be moved from a free trade to a tied trade. We are at second reading, so I have reflected the debate that took place here at first reading and which took place in the two committees that discussed it, the Economic Committee and the Public Administration Committee, and I have accepted that it is a broader view, supported by a number of Members, that this problem, namely the higher level of expertise of guides, should be addressed by a different way than by means of tied trade, but by issuing certificates which would be issued by the Ministry of Local Development. I have therefore expressed my approval for the capital city of Prague during the negotiations of the two committees, which is why the press will be discussed actually in the press version 247/5, which will be informed by the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u3	Thank you, Councilwoman of the City of Prague Hana Kordová Marvanová. I will now ask the rapporteur of the economic committee, Petr Dolínek, and may I draw my attention to Janda, who is the rapporteur of another committee, to prepare himself. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u4	Thank you. As the Councilwoman has already announced, it is therefore proposed by the committee resolution that the Chamber of Deputies approve the House's press 247 and discuss it in the text of the comprehensive amendment, according to the House's press 247/5, as it is mentioned in the system. There has been a real shift, that during the discussion - and at that time it was blessed, because the standard here is about a year and a quarter, that is, it was over 15 months to discuss with the Ministry of Regional Development - it happened that before there was the hardest method of solution, it means to return it as a tied business, that it comes there with the measures that have the opportunity to mark the guides, there are some penalty systems, etc. It is probably appropriate to say that the proposal was formed and prepared primarily by Mr Nacher, but also by others who were on the team and prepared it. [[10.50 hours]] I, as rapporteur, have to say that because I was also on the part of the petitioner in the past, I think that compromise shift is acceptable, and it really makes it possible to try another system that will be helpful to the guides, but will also prove something to those interested. And I think that who really cares about Prague and other Czech cities, cultural heritage more strongly, so they will be able to see whether the guide is first or second degree, and in the case of a second degree guide there really is a higher degree of proof of knowledge, studies and other things, so there will be a possibility to choose between what quality of guide services will be offered. That's what I think is the initial thing Prague originally wanted. I would also refer to the speech by Vice-President Okamura, who was here at the first reading, which resonated among the guides, among the cities. And even from this area, although there was a will for regulation, we also found the response that really some cities should have a problem according to a stricter standard guaranteeing services in some languages, because not everyone is prepared for this as the Prague environment. So I repeat, the first reading really resonated in the professional public, and on this basis we came up with this compromise. I will therefore also ask all those who may propose amendments to define themselves against the press 247/5, which is a comprehensive amendment approved by the Economic Committee and recommended here for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am informed that, in place of the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jakub Janda will present the report to Mr Martin Kupka. And I note that I cannot make factual remarks yet, because there is no debate. I ask Mr Martin Kupka, as alternate rapporteur for the committee, to present the report on behalf of the Public Administration Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u6	The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development dealt with the whole proposal in May. He discussed it and approved it, recommended for discussion to the Chamber of Deputies in a version with a comprehensive amendment, which is read in the system under number 2066.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u7	Thank you for the news report. And we can open the debate. The rapporteur with priority rights shall be the first in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u8	Thank you. As we have been brought to the attention of legislation several times, we must vote that the committee's proposal will be the one on which the debate will be held. So first of all, I would like to ask that we carry out this de facto vote so that we subsequently have a clean procedure according to the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u9	Yes, in a detailed debate, the amendments will relate to the press 247/5. Yes, rapporteur? We will decide that in the procedural vote that I have to make. True, I could only do so after the general debate, but since the proposal was procedural, I must vote now. I'm gonna go on, when I asked colleagues who had other topics to transfer them to the lobby, so I'm gonna give them a chance, to those who want to vote. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And I repeat that the press, which will be covered by the amendments in the detailed debate, is the press 247/5. That is what we will decide in the '94 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 94. From the present 111 to 105, against no one. The motion was accepted. We therefore have a decision as to what will be the outcome of the debate. The first for the debate is Vice-President Tomio Okamura, Mr Ondřej Profant and further registration will be prepared. The MP will be waiting... Before I give you my word, Mr Vice-President, I will ask the House again for peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u10	Dear ladies and gentlemen. This press is... It doesn't look like it, but it's very serious. It is a serious matter that will affect the entire tourism industry. I am glad that we have agreed, in principle, on this compromise proposal, which basically Mr Patrik Nacher has drawn up with other people. And I think it's a welcome compromise so that the levels of those cards are two and, first, it makes it possible to control, which is what it meets, so that we can clearly visually distinguish the guides who actually have it as jobs and are registered and make it different from those who do it essentially black. At the same time, this fulfils the condition that the continuity of work in those languages where there is a shortage of guides in the Czech Republic should not be disrupted, while hundreds of thousands of tourists travel. So this is important, where is the position of the Czech Association of Czech Offices and Agencies and the Association of Hotels and Restaurants and others who have just pointed out this. I also pointed out in the first reading that there is a need to strike a balance between clear visual control and, on the other hand, to avoid disturbing tourism, which generates large incomes for the Czech Republic and the considerable employment of our citizens. So I also intercede for voting in favour of this comprehensive amendment without any change. I have discussed it with Minister Dostálová in the past, and it is discussed with the professional public. You know, someone might be up for, someone against, but I think it's a welcome consensus so that tourism can continue to develop and at the same time there can be no black guides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u11	Thank you, Vice-President Tomio Okamur. And now in the debate ondOndřej Profant, Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u12	Beautiful morning, honourable Members, honourable citizens. Once again, we are dealing with a problem which de facto concerns Český Krumlov and the centre of Prague, in no way the whole of Prague. Usually when Prague is argued here, there will be a lot of Members here who want us not to solve Prague's problems on the premises of the House. To me, this legislation seems extremely strictly focused on one problem, which I do not think is at all as serious as it looks. It is rather a failure of control, because there are already many things to regulate, of course, but the proper authorities must try, not make excuses. We have been intensively discussing how to regulate guide activities at the Pirates' MP and representative club, and we have clearly come to the simplest solution, because the simplest solution is whether self-government determines whether they want to regulate this activity or not. I don't understand why we're here to issue two kinds of IDs that have a lot of other problems. We're nodding some I.D.s here, then we're gonna make deals, then we're gonna argue about who exactly and how they're being issued, who they're being issued to, who they haven't been issued to. And we're going back to the fact that the problem concerns de facto two cities. Maybe some other cities are coming to him, but I don't think she's that burdened. I therefore stress once again that we believe that this should be dealt with by the authorities. After all, we got from the government. That is exactly what I propose, together with Petr Třešňák, in the amendment by the House, document 3944, which I have already lectured on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u13	Thank you, Mr Ondřej Profant. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I may be jumping, so I hope I don't mess with those who haven't been around this law, but those who do will understand that. First, I remind you once again, for the sake of clarity, that the complex amendment, which was under number 2066, is therefore the basis. This is 247/5, and as has already been said, the reason that led me, colleagues Adam Kalous, Robert Králíček, to do this is that it would not solve the problems we in Prague with umbrella workers. This means that we didn't want to do exactly what our colleague Profant here was talking about, who isn't listening right now, and I'm surprised that he pointed it out here because he was a representative for the capital city of Prague because we wanted to solve the problem that we are dealing with here in Prague, but at the same time the changeling will allow us to deal flexibly with it so that we don't complicate it somewhere outside Prague, where with so-called. umbrellas don't have a problem. So much for the basic thing. Otherwise, at first reading, we went into a big detail according to my notes, so it's probably not worth saying again what the IDs look like, how they're going to be visually distinguished, and so on. There's no point in repeating that. I'm just going to take the liberty at this point, and then I'm going to sign up with the numbers, and I'm going to read two amendments. One on the stand, it is the proposal of my colleague Kubík, who came from the committee meetings, which proposes only one card, and his amendment then specifies some legislative technical errors and specifies that this should not apply to guides in closed buildings. It's number 3775. I will then sign up for this in a detailed debate. The second amendment does not concern the topic of guides, but concerns the amendment of the trade law and, in short, empowers municipalities to regulate short-term accommodation in their territory. I assume that this is all we wanted, and it is again with the sanctification of the capital city of Prague, so I hope that all former representatives of the capital city of Prague will also support this. This is so that each municipality can determine by regulation the period in which the provision of accommodation services in residential houses, family houses and recreation is prohibited and the conditions under which the provision of accommodation services in residential houses to a maximum number of persons is possible, the maximum number of overnight stays in one calendar year per unit. I think we're going to have a debate on this in detail at third reading. I think, and it's similar to those guides that it's in the village. Each one of these communities has a different way of doing it. We needed to find the ideal carrier, and as I understand it, is the consensus of everyone, both the City Council of Prague and the Ministry, that the carrier should be the trade law and that it should be in this form. It's under number 3733. I'll sign up for it. I hope I didn't mess this up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u15	Thank you, too. There is one factual comment by Mr Profant. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mrs Válková apologizes to us between 10.45 and 12 hours for health reasons. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u16	I'm just really serious. I was not a representative at the time when this bill was approved at the Prague City Council. It was, I guess, in the fall of last year. I wasn't the deputy. And I'm still not convinced that this is really a big problem for Prague and that this is how it should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u17	Thank you. We will now continue the general debate, so Mr Munzar, Mr Kalous will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, at first reading, was very critical of the original design of the capital city of Prague. I am glad that today we voted for a change in the fact that free trade will no longer be changed to tied. However, I must say that my colleague Profant was interested in you because he actually repeated the idea that we should leave these things to the authorities. I am very happy to get to know the details of his amendment before the third reading. However, I am here today on behalf of my colleague Janda to read on his behalf his amendment under number 2732, which also deals with whether this law will apply or not apply to guides in individual objects, or to guides performing activities in areas accessible to the public, as defined in the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. Let me give you a brief explanation. This law does not distinguish today whether the guide to whom this is trying to give some conditions and qualifications does not distinguish whether he will carry out tourists just after the mentioned Prague, or perhaps after the castle Křivoklát, or maybe he will conduct visitors to the museum kos in Karlovice, Silesia. In these particular cases, however, it is better to leave it to the owner or manager of the building, or also the manager of the territory, to leave the owner or administrator on his own free will, whether he chooses and whom he chooses as his employee. It is also essential to ensure that these services can be secured even in the remote areas, not in the most visited tourist areas. I believe that there is no need to issue a guide card in quotation marks to guides who work in private museums or in natural reserves and similar ones, and it can be assumed that the owner's interest is to choose the best he can get at the moment, and there is no need for us to speak to him in any way from the state. And we're talking about students or pensioners who provide these services, and often they're local patriots who do it for minimum wage. They do not have the appropriate qualifications to do so and do not have the appropriate experience to do so. Therefore, I would like to ask you to consider the support for this amendment, because I do not really think that we should go too far into the rights of the owners of individual entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u19	I also thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u20	Thank you for the floor. I originally thought it would be a more technical debate, and she's a politician. I'd like to ask my colleague Profant if he could listen. I'm gonna read him something. But what was my surprise when I learned that your party colleague - Mr. Prime Minister - Patrik Nacher tabled an amendment to the above amendment - this concerns those guides - which goes against its sense and instead of solving the current unsatisfactory state of mind. So the representative of the city of Prague took advantage of its legislative initiative and submitted an amendment to the trade law, which would transfer the guideship from free trades to bound trades. The current Prague Capital Council supports this amendment. Pirates have a mayor. The mayor even supports the version in that case, so it's a business tied up. It wouldn't have come through here. That's what we said, and I'm not gonna repeat the wheel here. That is why we have read the amendment with the two kinds of ID cards so that it has a chance and that it does not block activity somewhere outside of Prague. Now I do not understand very much - Mr President, so you are against what? Against the tied one, or against the compromise? To know my way around it. Because your mayor is even for the tied one. That would also be for the original strict version, and then you say on the microphone, yes, you're a former representative, that you don't even support the very subtlety of the matter. Well, I'd like to be a little more oriental about it, so I don't get chased up in open letters between the mayor and the prime minister for something that the Pirates in the Chamber of Deputies don't support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u21	Thank you. That was a factual point, and now for the general debate, Mr Klaus. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u22	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Unlike some divided parties, we do not support this view, all Members and all 21 of our mayors. [[Laughing in the left side of the hall]] Because all you do here is raise taxes, deliver European legislation, or introduce regulations. Interpreters, real estate agencies, and now even guides. And now the House is going to argue with fire whether they have one ID card or two ID cards. I still miss having someone come in and invent the uniform. You could best inspire yourself in Pyongyang, there they have it perfectly, the guide work, they're very trained, I think they even have security clearance. That's probably your pattern, most of the House here. So please calm down, stop threatening people's normal freedom, normal economic life. What do you care who escorts tourists and what they tell them? Is he telling them all right or a little bit wrong, or is he focusing on the more tabloid aspects of life in the city and monuments? It's not the House's job at all. This is where the auto industry gets sneaked out, and I'm sure we'll be voting on it soon, about all the new emissions and standards. A lot of big companies report huge losses, layoffs. It's not my fantasy, it's in renowned magazines, one article at a time. Mercedes, Continental and others. Then what do we have left? Our little churches, our castles and our castles. So let's put our tourism industry at risk. So we're not for three I.D.s, not for two I.D.s, not for one I.D., not for 17 I.D.s, not for the commission, not for the selection process. Who's gonna do all this? I do not believe that Nacher or Dolínek will somehow improve the guide activity in the city of Prague with its activities. And we are fundamentally against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u23	Thank you. I have now here with Mr Nacher's point of fact. There's only one point of fact at this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u24	Well, I guess no one wants to discuss it with co-worker Klaus. Because I've seen the nodding heads here that they don't agree with it, and in the end, I'm the only one who's gonna sign up. Well, I mean, I'm generally against regulation, but if you look at how it works in Vienna, now I've been to Salzburg. It's just not possible, this isn't what you're saying, colleague. Someone here has studied, learned languages, studied history, and then there's someone here who doesn't know all the basic things, information about Old Town Square, about Charles Bridge, just the most basic things. Like me, when I go to the dentist, I have elementary confidence that this man has studied it, that he understands it and that someone who doesn't understand it isn't going to dig in my mouth. Well, I'm not saying, let's not overheat it, we didn't overheat it, it's not a business tied up, but certain elementary rules work in all metropolises. In all the metropolises where there are guides. So I wouldn't associate that with anything where the rules are defined, so that there's some overregulation. But the Klondajk that's going on with the umbrellas, so go take a look around the staromák Man.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u25	Thank you. Now, with Mr Klaus's point of fact, I have Vice-President Okamura reporting to me from the point of view of the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u26	So you and some officials are gonna check who knows how much history to do? So a man is free, if he doesn't have another job, he's willing to walk in the cold somewhere, he has communicative skills, you're going to forbid him. I mean, there are 200 people sitting here, I don't want to touch anybody, 10 or 15 of them are a little bit more weak in my opinion here in our House, and here we also accept the laws, and no one is testing us before we make a candidate if we can run for the House and deliver the laws to people. [[Laughing from the left side of the Chamber]] But you're gonna deliver it to those normal people in those cities. It's impertinence! And that you're not ashamed! And don't come near that counter again, even though you're brave enough to talk to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u27	Thank you. Now, therefore, Vice-President Okamura is on the ground for debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I stress once again, we - I also did not perceive and I do not see that this should be regulated in some way more with consideration for and against. But I'm happy for the compromise. And the compromise to make it comfortable for the majority in the House. But I would not, please, embark on this expert debate, because from the 15 advanced countries of the European Union, the 15-year-old, eight-year-old, it's a free trade, and seven-year-olds don't. And it's not Austria and France as a free trade, but maybe Germany is. This means, therefore, let us not go into arguments as is the case in other countries. I would have to go again, because I devote my life to tourism and that legislation in Europe, and we would have to slide back to the fact that it is a free trade in most EU countries. So that's the truth. But I say we don't open it, I don't intend to open it. I think that there is a compromise proposal here, and I wanted to thank both Minister Dostálová and Mr Patrik Nacher again for preparing the compromise proposal for which the SPD will vote because it is compromise, and I think that it is based on both sides so that everyone is actually satisfied in some way and that we should rub those black guides, although umbrellas are literally a couple compared to the number of trade certificates issued for the tour, let's also say. But again, I don't want to get involved in this professional debate, because I could argue infinitely here. So I'm happy for the compromise, he's fine. I feel that there might be a majority consensus on it here, and I think that is probably the result of this compromise negotiations, so that the tourism works well and that it is somehow balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u29	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate at the moment. So if anyone else doesn't report from the scene, I'm shutting down the general debate at this point. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. First the appellant, then I will call on the rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u30	As I mentioned at the outset, I agree for Prague to go the way of some compromise proposal, because we want to solve the problems. And, of course, the House decides, so I respect if any proposal is not clear in the House. That is what I think is completely normal and that it is much better to seek the way of some compromise and agreement and to solve a problem than to endlessly fight each other for some solution that everyone thinks is ideal. So any shift towards what is going on in Prague will be welcomed. Secondly, I will not forgive myself for commenting on Mr Klaus, Václav Klaus Jr.'s speech. He spoke very flamingly about how unacceptable the regulation of this department is, that it is actually a scandal, that it is unacceptable. Because I have a historical memory, but anyone can verify it, so from 1989 until 2008, this has always been a tied business, and only the amendment adopted in the Chamber of Deputies has been moved to free trade. There was never presented by any government or government under the leadership of Václav Klaus Sr., where Father Václav Klaus was the younger Prime Minister, so the right-wing government never claimed that there should be no demands, no such modification. So I think it's just a blazing, probably political talk and that they're not based on reality at all. We are to address material problems and not make it a substantive, technical issue a fundamental political issue. On the contrary, I think that it is desirable, as always, that there was a consensus on this, so that there is some consensus on solutions now. And the fact that this solution is professionally different in different countries, so it is the fact that out of the 28 Member States of the European Union, it is somehow regulated in 13 countries, including France, Hungary, Austria, Greece, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Italy. So these solutions may be different, and it is only a matter of considering what Parliament will be leaning towards. It's not an ideological problem, it's just a matter of fact. I would therefore like, at the end of the general debate, if at the third reading, even at the cost of the compromises, the proposal had been accepted and we had moved on to address the issue of guide services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u31	Thank you. Some Members report to me with a factual point, unfortunately we are not in the general debate, I cannot give them, or in the next debate. I now ask Mr Dolínek, the rapporteur of the Economic Committee for Economic Affairs, for his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u32	I would like to remind you that this proposal is a proposal for ammunition, respectively. Prague in the form of a region that it is not a draft ministerial or parliamentary. And by discussing it, we are based on legal obligations to meet the possibility of the regions to design laws, virtually. their changes. That is probably important for us to clarify here for some of the speeches that have been made. I would also like to point out that, as I have noted, Mr President certainly checks with legislation, so there was no motion to reject the law, which means that I expect it to be discussed in committee so that we can decide the fate of the law here at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u33	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mr Kupka, who is now rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, if he is interested in the final word in the general debate. He doesn't. In that case, we'll continue. It has been said that the proposal to renegotiate the guarantee committee did not come up, so I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be duly justified. Mr Profant, then Mr Nacher, then Mr Munzar, came forward in a detailed debate. Mr Profant, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u34	I would like to present my amendment, read as House document 3944. It is a complex proposal for a complex design, virtually. a newly approved draft. And I noticed one more detail like that. There is one legislative technical error. Article two of the Roman two is mistakenly referred to as an article of the Roman three. So I think that's enough to put it that way and that legislation can handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u35	Yes, thank you. Any legislative technical corrections will then be dealt with in the third reading. Now, please, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u36	As I have already said, I would apply and read under number 3730 of the amendment concerning the authority of the municipalities that we have tabled with my colleague Králíček, and then, on behalf of my colleague Kubík, who is excused, under number 3775 of the proposal he tabled on his proposal, where there are some corrections and corrections to his own amendment. And it's all for printing 247/5, which we approved as the base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar, as at this time, is the last registered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u38	Thank you, Mr President. As I have already announced, I sign up on behalf of my colleague Janda to the amendment under number 2732, namely that the terms of the guide will not apply to guides in objects or to guides performing activities in areas accessible to the public as defined in the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-006-015.u39	Thank you. That was the last application at the moment in a detailed debate. I'm going to ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words once again after a detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, we should now vote on the proposals, but there was no proposal to return, nor to shorten the time limits, nor to allow the committee to no longer address the proposal. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteurs. Let's move on, that's to point number.
