ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u1	41. Government bill amending Act No. 226/2013 Coll., on the marketing of wood and timber products, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll., and Act No. 17/2012 Coll., on Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 332/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman will state if it is here. It is, so please take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u2	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's bill amending Act No 1 on the subject. 226/2013 Coll., on the marketing of wood and timber products. The proposed amendment to the Act is submitted on account of the adoption of the necessary measures relating to the adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic to the regulation of the Council for the import of timber into the European Community, or the regulation on licences. The issue is closely linked to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the obligations of operators placing wood and timber products on the market, so-called a timber regulation that has already been adapted. The two directly applicable regulations have been adopted by the European Union in support of international efforts to address the problems of illegal logging and related trade. The present application took place under two laws, namely the Act on Wood and Customs Law. The purpose is to ensure the creation and functioning of a comprehensive system of control of the marketing of timber and timber products in the Czech Republic in one law. In accordance with the requirements of the licensing regulation, the competences of customs offices and the Ministry of Agriculture are defined as well as certain administrative procedures such as: the non-submitting procedure of the valid licence. At the same time, certain provisions of the Act on the elimination of duplication of checks on economic operators by the regional authorities and the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests were clarified. The draft law also simplifies the facts of the offences, including the incorporation of principles and procedural rules of the Act on Liability for and Procedure for Infractions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u3	I, too, thank you, and now the rapporteur for the first reading should take the floor, Mr Radek Holomčík, but as I know, he is excused, which means that Mr Pošvář has volunteered to me that he would have played this role. However, we must vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. So I'm going to call my colleagues to the ballroom and I'm going to ask who agrees to change the rapporteur for first reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 143, 179 Members and Members were enrolled, for 122, against no one. The motion was accepted. I ask Mr Pošvář to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the proposed amendment aims to adjust the partial deficiencies which have been proven on the basis of five years' experience in applying national legislation to EU rules in the field of wood, Regulation No. 995/2010. It also addresses the related problems of Act No. 17/2012 Coll., on Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, and sets out more detailed procedures relating to the adaptation of domestic law to Regulation No. 2173/2005 under the Wood Act. The amendment focuses primarily on imports from risky areas, e.g. tropical, high-level illegal mining. The amendment regulates the list of public administrations in the field of the marketing of wood and wood products on the grounds that the current list can lead to ambiguous interpretation and should be so confusing. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate-General for Customs and Customs offices are the competent authorities under the Fleet licensing scheme. The new standard provisions governing the provision of data from central registers, from which competent authorities and authorised persons in the field of the placing on the market of timber and timber products may request relevant information in order to ensure the performance of checks on economic operators, which will reduce their administrative burden, shall also be inserted. The provision of such data is free of charge and the data is provided in a way that allows remote and continuous access. The proposed amendment thus affects the protection of personal data. The new competence of the Ministry of Agriculture obliges it to designate the competent authorities responsible for implementing this Regulation and for communicating with the Commission the obligation to notify the Commission of any information indicating circumvention of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001. 2173/2005 and send an annual report for the previous calendar year. In relation to the regional authorities, cross-compliance/limitation/checks of compliance with Articles 4 and 6 of Regulation No 1 shall be removed. 995/2010 based on the initiative of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority or the authorised person. The Regional Authority will therefore not be obliged to repeat the checks carried out by the delegate. During the inspection of the economic operator, the authorised staff of the regional authorities shall be able to prove their identity by means of a document the model of which shall be established by decree. The information obligation of the said authorities in the field of the marketing of timber and timber products, namely to municipalities with extended competence and to the Military Forestry Office, is newly anchored in order to operate the necessary cooperation of state authorities in the field of the marketing of timber and timber products. In relation to the Directorate-General for Customs, the obligation to provide information in particular with regard to the confidentiality provided for in Section 52 of the Tax Code shall be regulated, in particular in relation to Article 52 of the Customs Code. Article 8 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 881/2002 provides that the following conditions are to be met: 2173/2005 - preparation of the annual report - including the obligations imposed by Commission Implementing Regulation No 2173/2005. 1024/2008 laying down detailed measures for the implementation of Regulation No 1024/2008. 2173/2005 on the introduction of a system of FLECT licences for the import of timber into the European Community. The information provided shall not constitute a breach of confidentiality. The customs authorities shall, in particular, carry out tasks relating to the control of the validity of the licence for the import of timber in connection with imports of timber products from a partner country. The draft law lays down the factual jurisdiction of customs offices in the field of checks in the verification of licences for imports of wood under the directly applicable EU Regulation No. 2173/2005. The amendment regulates the status of the delegate. The authorised person shall be responsible for verifying licences for the import of timber consisting of carrying out a professional assessment of the type of wood used in timber products on request of the Directorate-General for Customs. In order to deal with offences against the provisions of this Act, the regional authority in question remained competent. In the context of the new legislation on infringement proceedings, there has been a shift in the interpretation of the economic operator as a perpetrator, which may also be a non-business natural person. Overall, the concept of an offence against the provisions of this Act is changed, and the fines proposed above are particularly effective in the preventive and repressive function of legal liability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u5	I also thank and open the general debate in which Mrs Vrecionová, who I hereby invite to the microphone, has signed up and will pass on the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u6	Good evening, dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Mr President. We will, I presume, discuss this amendment at further readings on the committees. I'd just like to draw attention to one thing. I understand, of course, that it is based on the European Union's intention to create uniform conditions for imports from third countries on the European market, but we are constantly talking about how bureaucracy needs to be cut, and on the contrary, we are making it worse by every similar proposal. I have consulted this draft with a number of people that it will touch, with entrepreneurs, but also with experts, and they really consider this proposal redundant, as it simply increases the additional bureaucratic burden of forestry entrepreneurs. The system of due care for forests, wood and its marketing is already defined in other laws, for example. The forest law, within the certification systems, and at this point, it would be another system of regulation for forest owners, in a situation where, once again, we are constantly talking about everyone being swamped by huge bureaucracy, and it will be another burden for them. At this point, I just want to draw attention to this. I'll draw your attention to that in all further discussions. Above all, I firmly hope that all colleagues will be held back when discussing any other amendments that would make this draft even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u7	Good evening. Mr. Josef Kott is here with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would nevertheless like to express my support for what has fallen from the Minister's mouth and from the rapporteur's mouth that there will indeed be a reduction in the number of controls, a reduction in the administrative burden on regional authorities, and that there will be transparency and simplification of control activities, which I think is also very important. Even a matter relating to the disposal of wood and the marketing of wood is a matter which is bad that should be dealt with. Therefore, the proposal we have here should be adopted and I support what the Minister has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-026-041.u9	Thank you. I don't have anyone registered for the general debate, not even from where I'm sitting. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not. I have no motion to return or refuse, so we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We will vote on the commandment as a committee of the agricultural guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 144, registered with 176 Members, for 133, against 0. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Agriculture as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I don't see anyone. So I'm saying that this material has not been assigned to other committees. The next item is
