ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws /house print 326/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, Minister of Transport, will present the proposal. Please take the floor. Or I'd like to ask that there be peace in front of the speaker's counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members. The Ministry of Transport submits a draft law amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws. The main objective of the draft law presented is to transpose Directive 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending Directive 2012/34/EU as regards the opening up of the market for national passenger transport services by rail and the management and management of railway infrastructure into national law. The second is the adaptation of the national legal order to Regulation 2016/2338 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending Regulation 1370/2007 as regards the opening up of the market for national passenger transport services by rail. [[EC]] Both Union regulations form part of the market pillar of the fourth railway package, with their implementation in particular establishing the obligations of national or regional or publicly accessible railway operators to exclude discriminatory behaviour and conflicts of interest in relation to carriers. Furthermore, the obligations of persons allocating railway capacity, allocations and the obligations of entrepreneurs within the vertically integrated undertaking and the obligations of railway operators operating rail transport are laid down. In the Act on Public Services, in particular, transport planning issues are regulated following the said Union regulations. Furthermore, the cases where public passenger transport services contracts can be awarded without a tender procedure are newly defined and a new single travel document is also introduced. In addition to those Union regulations, another set of legislative measures aimed at adapting the legal order of the Czech Republic to Regulation 2016/424 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on cable-lines and repealing Directive 2000/9/EC consists in particular of adapting the rules for the design and construction of cable-lines and ski lifts and putting them into service. [[17,00 hours]] It is also proposed to remedy several shortcomings of legislation, which are in Law No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, appeared during the examination of the draft amendment of this Act, subsequently published under No. 319/2016 Coll. In particular, there is a new definition of both publicly accessible and non-accessible trains, a transfer of the scope to approve a draft plan for restrictions on the operation of the runway or part of it from the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure to the Railway Administration, unless it is a national or regional or publicly accessible train. In the case of a train not publicly accessible, the draft plan will not be newly processed or to extend the competence of the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure to discuss selected offences according to the requirements of EU law. The vast majority of these adjustments are also relevant from the point of view of European Union legislation. Similarly, it is proposed to eliminate the partial shortcomings of the legislation which are in Act No. 194/2010 Coll., on public passenger transport services and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, appeared during the discussion of the draft amendment of this Act, subsequently published under number 135/2016 Coll. This is a correction of incorrect references to Act 134/2016 on public procurement. Thank you for your attention and I ask for the support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u3	Thank you, too. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u4	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. Not in the role of the electoral commission now, but I will speak very briefly to the rapporteur of this bill not to burden you, for which rail issues are not essential. We'll deal with it on the guarantee economic committee. As has been said by the Minister, it is an amendment to Act No. 266/1994. I see it as essential. It is really, perhaps I can use the word, groundbreaking, because it accepts or implements the so-called Czech law. Fourth railway package. This has been discussed between the institutions of the European Union for a long time, as is the case with this legislation, between 2013 and 2016. In the framework of this package, six draft legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council has been developed, and primarily the so-called one here. The fourth railway package aims to revitalize the railway space, make the railway even more attractive, increase its competitiveness compared to other modes of transport, namely road transport, and introduce something that Commissioner Violeta Bulc calls one single market, i.e. one common transport market for the whole European railway. These regulations consist of two pillars. One is technical and the other is market. And what we're presenting here today with the Minister is the solution of the so-called. the market pillar, i.e. addressing the issue of liberalisation, the gradual opening of the rail market. And it is necessary to explain that the technical part, which deals with implementation, describes implementation of technical standards, interoperability and similar issues, is not yet addressed because the Czech Republic uses the possibility of extending the transposition deadline until 16 June 2020. So we have actually a year and a half to do it then to the technical requirements. I will not delay and reread the numbers of European documents. The minister mentioned them. If I make it very simple, the proposal presented gives the possibility of opening up the railway market, creating and describing a legal environment for the liberalisation of railway services, which the Ministry is already more or less beginning to implement, and now it gives it a kind of solid legal framework. I also have to say that this amendment logically follows up on the previous amendment, which we discussed here in the House and approved in 2016, who you were here at the time. At that time we even introduced existence, actually created so called. The Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, which is actually the independent regulator and resolves any disputes following legislation. I'm sure I'm also intercede, and I'm asking for your approval, for your support. We will discuss any amendments to the Economic Committee. I can tell that there will be a certain number of them. I've already been informed that there will be an interest in opening the debate of the very trains, whether they should be public or private. So we will certainly try to find an explanation and an opinion on the Economic Committee that we consider to be correct. We also discuss the so-called SŽDC. the Institute of Overloaded Roads, what to do when the carrier's request does not actually fit all trains on the one - in our case it is the main corridor in the direction from Prague to Moravia, although I don't think we will find a match of the whole sector yet and we will not put this a bit sensitive point in the end into this amendment and that we may leave it for some further discussion of the said law. We discussed with the Minister that the Ministry would not request adjustments or shortening of deadlines. Therefore, we should have sufficient time to discuss any amendments within the Economic Committee properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Adamec and Mrs Matušovská came forward. First, please, Mr Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I will delay a little, and maybe I will return a little bit to history when I was working on the Board of Directors of the SŽDC, Railway Infrastructure Administration, and at that time we were discussing the liberalisation of the railway market, which means that Europe ordered us to separate the tracks from the trains. The negotiations were very intense, they were not entirely simple. And I must say that I am still not convinced that Europe is doing this properly. And I quite have to say, when I was visiting for European money within a project in Switzerland, where we compared the Swiss railroad, which is such a pattern for all its accuracy, its performance, as it is done there, so when we opened the issue of unbundling, that means separation of tracks from operation, so the Švýcar laughed a little and said it was one of the main reasons, not the only reason that they would rather be associated with the European Union, but not properly, because they would never accept this practice. And I think they're right. But unfortunately we are members of the European Union at this point, unfortunately, in quotation marks, we must abide by European law. This is how Europe deals with it. And I repeat, I don't think it's entirely ideal. It's true what was said here. This bill is mainly a transposition of the market part of the fourth railway package and it has just been approved for the purpose of creating conditions for competition in rail transport. When I point out the main objective that has already been said here that the main objective of the proposed legislation is to generally be to complete the creation of a single European railway area with common rules introduced by Directive 2012/34/EU and to allow, to an increased extent, competition in the national rail market and equal access to railway infrastructure. That's how much theory speaks. Now let's see how it looks in practice. In the past Ministry of Transport, respectively. last year, several so-called. spreadouts, or internal competitions between rail transport operators to operate several express lines, saving the state hundreds of millions. The fact that he then handed them out on a fare or on a fare discount was a political decision, I wouldn't criticize it here, it's just my kind of sigh, and I'm sorry about that. But the truth is, according to my information this year, the Ministry of Transport is no longer counting on this format and that - at least I am based on a report from the Press Department of the Ministry of Transport, which says that the institute so called. This year's shootings will probably not be used, even after consulting the carriers, the Ministry's priority will be to start a proper tender procedure instead of the shootouts, said Lenka Rezková, spokesperson for the Ministry of Transport. And now I don't know if I have the right information. I don't think there's a bidding process yet. But if I'm wrong, of course I'd be happy to believe the Minister is otherwise. And I'm wondering at what time you're going to write the tender, and maybe at this point, if any has been written in the past for your work, I'd like to know where it was. [[17.10 hours]] I must also say that we have a national carrier, the Czech Railways, and they are, of course, defending the liberalisation. I understand, on the one hand, it's a national carrier. On the other hand, if we're going to hold open competitions here, we need to protect the national carrier in part. I think that they are justifiably shouting that they do not like it and that there is a need to come up with legislative proposals that will compare the position of the Czech Railways with those of the other carriers, and I feel that this has not yet happened. If I'm wrong, I'll be glad it does, because if we really want to open the market, then we all have to have the same conditions. We need to compare ourselves to this problem in order to make a law, and especially that European legislation. We have here an amendment to the Railway Act, which is needed for a straight competition in the field of rail transport, but concrete steps, I would like to hear from the Minister here, who will follow so that we do not jeopardize the position of the Czech Railways and at the same time liberalization took place, the market on the rails so as to implement this law, which is the transposition of a truly European directive. I thank the Minister for any answers. And, of course, we want to release the bill to committees. I think there are a lot of professional issues that need to be resolved in the context of the negotiations of the Economic Committee, but these were my initial questions, because I think the issue is so serious - and I understand that not everyone knows how the railroad works. I know, we've all been on the train sometimes, but we don't need to know what's going on with the competition and the dorms, I get that. But certainly if we want to have quality rail transport, passenger transport, so that trains have a different level, other standards, to develop, to invest in this area, then, of course, we need to have a quality law, which we will then apply hard in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u7	Thank you, too. I don't know if anyone's gonna want to react with a point of fact. It doesn't look like it. Please, Mrs Matušovská. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I thank my colleague Adamc for his many comments on this, through the President, because we agree on the liberalisation of the national carrier and the same conditions for all of us, of course. Since the Minister of Transport and the rapporteur informed you about the main objectives of this amendment, I would have a few comments on this amendment. These are the following areas. I would like it to be anchored in the Railway Act on the existence of fire rescue services SŽDC, i.e. Railway Infrastructure Administration. This firefighter's rescue service already exists, but the law doesn't think or talk about it. Due to legal anchoring, it would partly facilitate the provision of funds for its operation. Furthermore, what I would like to see in this amendment - setting the limit for the form of replacement transport for which the financial compensation is granted by the railway operator, with reference to proportionality in relation to the original transport. The amendment should prevent abuse of the legal provision. Supplement to the right of the railway administrative office to require the operator of the railway to collect numbers, a licence from train drivers using the runway. The above serves to prevent the crossing of permitted times for the conduct of a railway vehicle by drivers when there is no other tool. In practice, the Railway Infrastructure Administration provided these data to the Railway Authority, precisely the data it collected from carriers under the agreement, but such a procedure is not possible in the absence of a legal authorisation and has been attacked by certain carriers. I'd like that. Then I would have a few comments on the paragraphs, where in paragraph 32 (3) the definition of an independent allocation is, but in the other paragraphs, only the allocation is mentioned. I will also follow up on the rapporteur here when he spoke of the lifts. Those transitional provisions state that the train which is now operated as publicly accessible cannot be declared publicly inaccessible because the information in paragraph 22a has changed significantly. In fact, this may also be discriminatory for carriers who, in good faith, declared their trains publicly accessible without having to be decided by the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure. And then I have some other comments here, but I think we're gonna discuss this more on the Economic Committee. I think that the negotiation of the Railways Act on the Economic Committee will not be easy and there will be a lot of amendments, and I hope that the Ministry of Transport - although some have been dealt with negatively in these commentary proceedings, I hope that we can come to an agreement and certainly settle them positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u9	Thank you, ma'am. I have a note here. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch extends his apology from 17:00 to the end of the day due to urgent work issues. At this point, I don't have any more applications for the debate. It doesn't look like anyone's coming forward, either, so I'm done with the debate. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. Sorry. I ask the Minister for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to respond at least a little to what has been said here. In any case, I welcome the comments because I think they are exactly the things to be dealt with on the Economic Committee. I look forward to the debate there, and I'm ready for it, and we'll be looking for a compromise solution if it's just a little bit possible. I would just like to answer the clear question of Mr Adamec, through Mr President. First of all, I'd correct the name of the shootout a little bit, that it was some kind of competition. It wasn't really a competition. We have simply decided that we will allow the český Railways as a national carrier to enter directly until the European Commission allows us to do so, so that we can really set up an environment for them to prepare for liberalisation. They have a lot of things in the past that they have to deal with, and like other national carriers in other countries, they just have the right to use that time to prepare. So that's what we want to give them. However, for some of these lines we received competitive offers and it was clear that those competing offers, if they are comparable, must be taken into consideration. We took some of them. For those other direct assignments that should take place this year, we see the situation differently. There's no competition there. Rather, we calculate that we would enter the long-distance lines by direct assignment to the Czech Railways. Of course, there is another package of lines that are entered from regional lines, that is, from the regions. There the Czech Railways must have a business fight and they are working very intensively and I don't see it wrong. I think that the Czech Railways will have quite a lot of space to prepare for liberalisation and not be disadvantaged by having some historical things from the past. That's basically it. And as I was saying, I look forward to the debate on the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u11	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? It doesn't look like it. We shall vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. As has already been said, the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Unless anybody proposes another committee, which I do not see, we will proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who is for the commandment to the guarantee committee. Who opposes the commandment of the economy as a guarantee? Thank you. There are 179 Members and Members registered in the 141 vote, for 144, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Are there proposals for another committee to discuss? Mr. Růžička.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u12	Dear colleagues, I would like to propose that this be ordered to the Security Committee on the grounds that it is a fire rescue body of the enterprise, so that it is further discussed by the subcommittee on the Fire Rescue Corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-025-040.u13	Thank you for the suggestion. Does anyone else have any other suggestions for the next committee? This is not the case, so I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Security Committee as the next committee. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 142, 179 Members and Members are registered, for 136, against 4. The proposal was adopted, so I note that we have also ordered the proposal to the Security Committee as another committee. The proposals for shortening or extending the time for the hearing did not come to an end, so this is the end of the discussion. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. Let's move on to the next point. That's point number.
