ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u1	44. Government bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation), as amended /German press 485/ - first reading Since Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is excused, the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová is responsible for presenting this proposal. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you, on behalf of the Prime Minister, a government bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws. Otherwise, in short, I will further shorten the Act on Support for Research, Experimental Development and Innovation. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] [[17.50 hours]] The aim of the proposal is to implement partial amendments to the Act on Support for Research, Experimental Development and Innovation and Unification of terminology. The proposed amendments to the law consist in particular in changing the method of evaluation of research, development and innovation, in the introduction of a new institute of projects of shared activities, in changing the provision of information through the information system of research, experimental development and innovation, and in changing the method of settlement with the state budget in connection with the decree of the Ministry of Finance No. 367/2015 Coll. The importance of the evaluation of science and research is gaining global importance. Firstly, because it is an incentive instrument for really good and excellent science and research, secondly, because of the requirements for responsible and efficient management of public budget funds. The good foreign practice of other countries with a strong research base shows that effective evaluation must be comprehensive, i.e. also focused on research organisations as a whole and not only on the results generated by them. For these reasons, the amendment emphasizes the evaluation of research organisations as a whole while maintaining a bibliometric analysis of individual results. The amendment aims to establish basic evaluation procedures for research organisations. The details of this process are then modified in the methodology of evaluation of research organisations approved by the government. This way is guaranteed not only the necessary flexibility of evaluation parameters responding to international trends and the diversity of local research organisations, but also a stable legal framework is created to ensure the need to respect the regular and high-quality evaluation process of science and research. To this part, I would like to stress that the proposed change in the method of evaluation of science and research has been widely and consensually discussed with all relevant actors in this area, in particular with the Ministry of Education, with the Czech Rectors' Conference, with other ministries, with the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and with the Czech Research Organizations. The draft law further introduces a new institute of projects of shared activities. The need for its introduction resulted from the advantages of ensuring certain activities together from one place for the whole area of research, development and innovation, that is for research organisations, central administrations or agencies engaged in the promotion of research, development and innovation. It is a complementary concept to the concept of a large research infrastructure project. The third heading of the amendment is the change of the information system of research, experimental development and innovation in the introduction of records of the results of large research infrastructures and of international cooperation projects in research, development and innovation financed from foreign sources. To date, only data on the results achieved directly by large research infrastructures are collected, but not results achieved by users who use large research infrastructures on the principle of open access. The proposed modifications are intended to remedy the current situation and increase the efficiency of the activities of large research infrastructures and their use by the scientific community. The last proposed change is how to settle liabilities with the state budget related to the decree of the Ministry of Finance No. 367/2015 Coll. It is therefore proposed to remove the obligation of the provider to settle commitments to the State budget only in the annual scheme and to allow the procedure usual for financing European projects. This is a technical amendment responding to the highly up-to-date need for changes related to the implementation of the innovation strategy of the Czech Republic 2019 to 2030. The bill does not affect equality between men and women, it does not create a corrupt environment, nor does it have an impact on the state budget. The costs of new projects of shared activities will be covered by the existing expenditure of the State budget for research, development and innovation as well as up to now and are part of the approved expenditure limits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr František Vácha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer bore you with the problems of the scientific community and with the amendment of the R&D Support Act. Madam Secretary has, I think, summed it up very cleverly. So I think we're getting to the point where the scientific community agreed on some basic changes. Although I have to say that there are still groups that think - and I'm part of one of them - that think they're supposed to evaluate mostly the results and not some, say, written litany about what I'm going to do in the future. However, the consensus is here. As the Minister said, these are four basic points, that is the changes forced by the new evaluation system, when the word "results" is released, but the whole organization is evaluated. Then it is important to change the information system when, in fact, by introducing the concept of large research infrastructures, we need to know what the large infrastructures into which huge money has been invested, what the real results are. That's what's hard to find in RIV today's record of results. Then, of course, the shared activities projects are needed to be able to invest money in shared activities, such as consortiums that give scientists access to professional literature. And then, of course, the billing with the state budget, where we have projects that have been funded for several years, mostly European projects, so we need there not to settle commitments with the state budget in the annual regime, but it was a multi-annual settlement. So I can say for the scientific community that I think there's been a consensus, and I personally support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open the debate, I will introduce you to the fact that, from today's meeting, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for working reasons from 17 a.m. to the end of the day. I am now opening the debate. President Stanjura is the only one who is in favour of the debate, but he is the only one who is the only one at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u6	So when we listen - I respect and fully understand the Prime Minister's apology. The Prime Minister's meeting is first today, so that's totally fine. However, when I listen very often to the outputs not only of the Prime Minister but also of other ministers, you will find that one of the first priorities is the promotion of science, research, innovation, which is correct. See for me how important this bill is to the government. [[view to government benches]] We have the Minister of Finance here, and I would like to thank her for saying so, then two junior ministers. I'm sorry, but you're a junior in this government. And then not a foot. Not a foot. And I think it's nice, as the rapporteur said, that the scientific community agreed. But we're politicians, we're supposed to have a political debate, and I don't have a partner here. If there was a Minister of Industry and Trade here who likes to talk about how he's the push of innovation. The Prime Minister speaks of him as his right-hand man, as Karel's innovations have mastered. Where is he? He's not here. So I propose that we interrupt this point into the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade. I say, I fully respect the apology of the Prime Minister who formally presents it, but I would also say, in the first profile interviews of the new Minister of Industry and Trade very often, and I would say very well, stressing the issue of support for science, research and so on. But he's not here. And with all due respect to the Minister of Finance, I don't think she's the right person to debate this bill. So this is my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u7	A procedural proposal that we will vote on immediately. But I will ask you, Mr President, if you repeat the procedural proposal. I didn't notice him, and I wouldn't want us to get it wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u8	I propose to interrupt the discussion of this point in the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is also Vice-President of the Government for Science, Research and Innovation. I'm saying that the Prime Minister is excused for serious reasons, so I don't have a problem with him not being there. So here's the deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u9	Thank you. I understand this proposal. I have summoned Members who were not present in the hall. We can vote on the procedural proposal, as President Stanjura has just repeated. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 166 Members registered, for 73, against 41. The motion was not accepted. We will continue to discuss this point. Mr Rais's point of order is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u10	Thank you. Have a good day, everyone. I would like to support what my colleague Vácha said here, because it is not just about whether or not the Minister of Industry is here. There have been a number of discussions with people from the employment office - sorry, from the Office of the Government, with whom we discussed this here. And since we're the second period here, we're seeing some sort of continuity. And I consider that essential. That it's continuity to quality. You may recall how many interventions we conducted in the past period due to the malfunction of the information system. And thank God it's not only functional today, but we're still able to take into account basically the performance of the infrastructures. Of course, as the Minister said, there are a number of things that can be added, I don't think that's the subject of the first reading now. But in any case, it is clearly a proposal that goes in the right direction, towards quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Bělobrádek will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I want to confirm that. The matter has its own development. We tried to put emphasis on quality in the previous period, i.e. also in order not to evaluate only the amount of publications, which was the main factor that was taken into account in order to make it a broader comprehensive assessment, which is internationally comparable. And what Professor Rais said. Yes, there is a new information system. We were the only ones who were able to get out of contracts in public administration. We have made a new information system and saved CZK 70 million to the Czech Republic. And the information system is now running at half the price. So I think it was a good job, and I think we need to continue this system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u13	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one's reporting, I'm done with the general debate. I ask the Vice-President of the Government, the rapporteur, if there is any interest in final words. It's not. Yes? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't want a final word, just a comment. Mr. Vice Prime Minister is on an important foreign trip from which he simply could not apologize. So just to explain why he's not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-006-044.u15	Thank you. In the debate, there was no proposal for a return or rejection, so we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. On a proposal from the Organising Committee, the Guarantee Committee should be the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Is there any other proposal for a guarantee committee? I don't see a suggestion like that. Once again, I have called everyone to vote and we can vote on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 167 Members registered, for 150, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm done reading this point. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the rapporteur. Now we're going to focus on point 78. [[correct 45]] It's about
