ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 178/2016 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, as amended / House print 645/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We are at first reading and note that it was proposed to approve this proposal at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, but before that, with priority rights, the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. Before I give you my word, Mr President, I will ask the House once again for peace! So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD and the KSČM clubs, I want to veto the proceedings under Section 90 of this Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u3	Thank you, yes, that's possible procedure. So we will proceed in three readings and we have no choice but to start in a classic way. My colleague Bartoň is already at the rapporteur's table and I will now ask the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga to take up his opening words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part falls with the veto information. I will just explain why it was in the '90s, and I will also say that if it goes in a way that is not according to Section 90, then I would like to see someone adopt a proposal to shorten the deadline, because what is going on here is to decide as quickly as possible on this matter, or you decide by your vote and to definitely give certainty to children or students, whether or not they will be required to graduate from mathematics since 2021 at grammar schools and lycees, from 2022 all others. I will explain to you at the moment the reasons which led me to present this proposal, which is submitted by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and before I mention the reasons, so I will say that this proposal does not disturb the teaching of mathematics, because the common interest of all of us, and I believe that industry, as well as all the participants in the educational process, is really to control mathematics. However, I am convinced that I have arguments for why the introduction of compulsory mathematics graduation is not the instrument that teaches Czech children mathematics. It's a nice argument that I often hear in discussions, but it's not the heart of the problem. [[11.00 hours]] I mean, the reasons that led me to present this proposal. One. The study of the Czech School Inspectorate clearly shows, and we will respond to this by changing the framework education programmes, that what is written in the framework education programmes is not taught at the level of all students. It's just too late. Maybe it's time to unload. It's too late to practice. If we want students to have this knowledge to be able to use mathematics, then it is not enough to just play on the fact that it is mentioned in the framework education programme, but there must be sufficient room for what is applied useful mathematics, the use of mathematics in practice, could also be properly discussed at those schools and for it to be repeated at those schools, there was sufficient time to get those core things and competences in school. That's argument number one. Argument number two. We have conducted an extraordinary investigation into the lack of teachers, or the state of primary and secondary schools. Mathematics and physics are the most lacking aprobations. So if we're talking here that it should have happened a long time ago, then the teachers aren't. Yes, the results depend on the teachers whether we want to or not. They are not dependent on what you write in the framework education programme, but they depend on whether there are conditions in schools to teach it. I am very glad that we have a lot of good teachers of mathematics and physics in the teacher's system, but if there's anything else missing, then of course it's the support I was talking about, and clearly identified areas to be taught. When you add information from the last three years about the development of voluntary mathematics graduation, where the development is definitely not positive, it led me to show myself over the summer what we all called for and we continue to call for students to know how to use mathematics to make it the applied mathematics, that is, mathematics in practice. Not taught formulas, although of course some penzion knowledge must be adopted by memorizing and overkilling, but the important thing is that when I had to show failure at graduation exams precisely from those applied tasks that industry wants - industry wants students to know how to use mathematics - the degree of failure is even greater in these types of tasks. So let's face it, the system set up at the same time is not able to create such conditions that students in this general variant are successful in mathematics. The departure from the obligation that does not bring joy in mathematics will not bring even greater knowledge of mathematics is quite logical. But to everyone who leaked information in that space, that it ended in mathematics - it doesn't end. These steps, which were presented here at the time when the compulsory mathematics graduation was approved, began gradually. That's how the school system works. This means, if there was talk of bringing more quality education to the possibility of dividing the hours of mathematics, this system is starting from 1. This year's 9th thanks to a change in regional education funding. It will be financed in this way from January. So it could hardly have worked in the previous three or four years when it's starting now. But it is a condition necessary for it to actually be a greater focus on mathematics as such. Second thing - methodological cabinet, sharing examples of good practice. Because we want good math teachers to share that modern teaching focused on applied math among themselves. Yes, the Methodical Cabinets of the European project, which is managed by the Ministry, are starting to be very commended, but it will take time for the effect to take effect. This is another argument that these steps take place to support mathematics. The third thing I can mention is that mathematics is definitely the Ministry's interest, and it's not small, so it's that there's a pilot verification of so-called math expanding, or if you want math plus. That means higher levels of math graduation. Yes, I admit it is voluntary, too, but it would be the level that we called here, which shows the universities, especially the technical focus that the student has mathematics at such a level that this mathematics plus confirms that he could actually go on with the school without his mathematics exams and that he is mainly able to continue successfully at that school. These are the arguments that led me to submit this bill. I don't think if there's an obligation, except for the failure of the students, that we're going to learn them by this whip, now that I've said at least three arguments that point to the fact that there are no conditions for such a flat-rate obligation. At the same time, mathematics and math graduation are not interrupted overall, but the proposal envisages maintaining the choice between mathematics and foreign language in the case of graduation exams. At the same time, I would like to use this introductory word to appeal to you. I'm open to discussion because math is and will be important, but I think we need to jointly want the math to show knowledge, not by learning one or a third of the people out of the exam, and there will be a study failure. So I'm ready to discuss not only on this forum, but also overall ideas from your side, how to improve the teaching of mathematics. I'm ready to apply it to practice. And perhaps the most important point of introduction. It is appropriate, given the changing education system, or the requirements for education at present and in the future, that we should also discuss the form of the graduation exam and its importance as a whole in this political forum. I also propose this debate beyond a simple debate over the obligation or optionality of math graduation, I welcome and believe that it will be heard, whether it has the character of a round table or anything else. We really need to look at what content is and whether we are really testing what is really needed in the modern world and the future world in the overall graduation exam. In addition to this main topic, of course, the proposal also includes the part which aims to leave only didactic tests at state level and return, for example, essays or, in the case of language examinations, the re-examination to schools. I think it's a reasonable step. The state should maintain its control function through didactic tests, through some basic standard, and the trust, the ability to adjust the exam, should return, of course, in legal boundaries, back to schools. Thank you for the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u5	Thank you, Minister. I note that Mr Běhounek cancels his apology at 11 o'clock and is present. I will now give the rapporteur another word. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the Government has tabled a bill to the House on 13 November 2019. The proposal proposed to the House to discuss the bill so that the House could agree with it at first reading, but we have already noticed the veto of two members of the club, and this will not be possible. The Minister mentioned the basic points of this proposal, particularly in terms of math. I will just mention that it contains such three main chapters, and this is the transfer of written work and oral exams from the joint part of the graduation exam to the profile section of graduation, which is already in the gesture of schools. State graduation would be limited to didactic tests. The next chapter is about maintaining the choice between compulsory mathematics and compulsory testing of foreign languages, as is the case so far, which is probably the most interesting thing in the media. And the third, smaller part is the introduction of an optional exam, so-called mathematics extending within the joint part of the graduation exam. That's how much the rapporteur's opening report has. At the same time, given that in the Chamber of Deputies, there is already a proposal for a school law which also addresses graduations as a parliamentary bill and we have included it right behind this point, I would ask the President to accept me as the first in the general debate so that I can propose a merger of the debate for both of these points. So I report with priority rights to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, but in order to give you the floor, those who are already registered with priority rights would have to agree. And President Farský, President Fiala and President Pekarová Adamová, who will appear in that order, is in favour of the general debate. If you prefer Mr Bartoň, we can do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u8	Thank you. I propose a merger of the debate with paragraph 30, House press 506.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-003-029.u9	It's a proposal we're going to vote on. I'll call the MPs from the lobby. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal has been made for us to combine the debate on this point with the debate on paragraph 30, House press 506. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. Are we ready for the vote? Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the merged debate? Who's against it? Voting number 354, 139 Members entered, for 118, against no one, we adopted the proposal. We are therefore continuing the merged general debate on this point, namely on paragraph 29 and on paragraph 30. The first for the debate is the President of Farský. I will not give the President the floor because Mr Bartoň rightly warns me that we have not opened the following point, which we should do rightly. Initiating consideration of item number
