ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 452/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Before I give you my word, I hope the House will calm down a bit. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled contains measures in the field of pension insurance relating to the increase in pension valorisation in January 2020. The draft law implements a guaranteed increase in pensions in January 2020 so that the average old-age pension is increased by CZK 900. The increase in pensions paid in January 2020 will be based on the relevant supervisory rules laid down in Section 67 of the Pension Insurance Act, i.e. The basic pension ratio will be increased to 10 per cent of the average wage and the percentage pension ratio will be increased by the relevant percentage points in order to take into account the full price increase and the real wage growth in half. The amount thus determined shall be added to the amount of the increase beyond this regular valuation of the still fixed uniform amount so that, for the average old-age pension, the total increase is CZK 900. This means that, in addition to the relevant percentage increase in the percentage of the pension, all pensioners would receive a single fixed amount determined under this rule. The amount of this amount cannot now be fixed as the necessary statistical data for its determination will not be available until early September. It can now only be estimated that the amount of this fixed amount will be around CZK 180 to 200. This amount will be the same for all pensioners and each pensioner will receive it only once, even if he receives more pensions. In the event of the co-financing of pension payments, this amount, according to the proposed adjustment, will belong to the percentage of the pension which will be higher or, where appropriate, the highest. This additional increase in pensions will require an increase of around 7 billion in 2020 for the total valorisation of paid pensions. Crowns. The proposed measure will have a positive impact on all pensioners. In the case of the approval of the bill, the income situation of pensioners will be improved, as the average old-age pension to average gross wage, i.e. the so-called compensation ratio, will increase by approximately half a percentage point to 38,8%. Without this measure, there would be a stagnation of this refund ratio. At the same time, the purchasing power of pensioners will increase, as the real value of their pensions will increase by an additional 1,9 %. Relatively more will increase purchasing power in pensioners with below-average pensions. For example, a pension of CZK 6,000 per month will increase by more than 9 per cent due to the valuation, while a pension of CZK 18,000 per month by 6.2 per month. We should not allow the stagnation or decline in the standard of living of pensioners, and therefore please support the proposed bill and its referral to the next legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u3	Thank you for the opening word. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Roman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister Maláčová has presented the content of this press in detail. In other words, I will try to say briefly from the rapporteur's position that the content is to increase the pension by a uniform amount from January next year in an exceptional way, so that for the average old-age pension, the increase in the basic salary and the increase in the percentage of the total of the average old-age pension is CZK 900, thus by increasing the percentage. [[18.20 hours]] Legally, this is a rather simple amendment. It consists essentially of one paragraph, which is added to the Pension Insurance Act. The consequences of this amendment, of course, are significantly larger, both for the pensioner's beneficiaries, who are increasing their incomes, but also for the state budget, as stated. Basically, if this draft is adopted, the mandatorial expenditure will increase by 7 billion next year. Crowns. I am also talking about this because it is from the position of the rapporteur of this press that I would recommend that we try to discuss this press so that we can keep up with the proposed effectiveness that is there, that is, 30 September this year, on the one hand, with regard to the Czech Social Security Administration, which of course needs to know the amount of pensions in due time from January next year, but also with regard to the drawing up of the state budget, because of course we all know that when the state budget is drawn up, it must be based on the legislation in force, not on the forecast. And it would be good in September to know valid and effective legislation from January next year. This is precisely why it would be most appropriate for us to reduce the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. So much for my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u5	Thank you. Then please read the proposal in the debate. I am now opening up a general debate in which I have five Members of Parliament and Members. As First Member of Parliament Šafránková, then Member Martínek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u6	Good evening, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues. To begin with, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to say that we will definitely support the release of the House press for the second reading. This does not mean, however, that we are fully identified and satisfied with its content, and it certainly does not mean that we are satisfied and identified with the progress and steps of the government in relation to our pensioners, in addition to its activities in the whole area of social policy. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Yes, the transition from the 40-coronal valorisation of pensions and abandoning the method of increasing the percentage is a certain shift forward, but it is definitely not a satisfactory, let alone a system solution. In particular, taking into account that the planned increase in pensions will hardly cover the accumulation of consumer price inflation and the further increase in basic life needs - food, but also housing-related costs, especially energy prices, where the most significant increase over the last 10 years is the most significant increase and will only be fully reflected gradually throughout the year, as there will be annual accounts of electricity and gas collection in each distribution area. For these reasons too, the government's planned amount of income growth is completely inadequate. It means basically only a certain correction of the increase in the cost of living, for which the same government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u7	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. I am afraid that the House is restless and does not perceive your speech at all. I would like to ask colleagues on the right and left in the O.R. who are discussing this outside the O.R. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u8	Thank you. For which, moreover, the same government is also jointly responsible in many respects. The submitted amendment is, say, mandatory technical regulation that does not address the complex and degrading situation of those hundreds of thousands of pensioners who have to apply each month for housing contributions and surcharges, especially in larger cities, or for a contribution in material distress. Nor does the scissors of income inequality still open, whether between pensioners themselves or between pensioners and employees. The ratio of the average old-age pension to the average wage decreases steadily. It is now around 37 percent, and this and the previous government have talked about completely different sessions they intend to achieve in this respect. However, the declared values are not fulfilled in this way. It is also not possible, sustainable, fair or bearable that, according to data from the Czech Social Security Administration last year, it receives about 780 thousand. pensioners less than 10 000. CZK a month, and about 350 grand. our seniors are even under 8,000. Crowns a month. In view of these facts and in order for our seniors in these income categories to live up to a time when even a hint will be better, we must move much faster, more forcefully and more ambitious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u9	Thank you and I beg the floor of Mr Tomáš Martínek. Mr. Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, in this press, I have a few questions about the representative of the petitioner, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. First of all, I would like to ask what led the petitioner to suddenly change the original draft pension insurance law. Recently, an increase in pensions was presented to the government through an increase in the basic salary, from 10 per cent of the average wage to 10.6 per cent of the average wage. According to the eKLEP information system at the government meeting on 25. 3. 2019 has not been discussed in this proposal. At the next meeting of the Government on 1. 4. 2019, an existing proposal was submitted to the Government for discussion, i.e. adding a fixed calculated amount from the average pension to the percentage of all pensions. What, then, led the petitioner to this unsystemic change? Furthermore, I would like to ask what pensioners will be affected by the proposal to increase their pension above the valorisation. If the proposal is approved in a timely manner, will it rise above the valorisation of pensioners with a pension granted after 31 December 2019? If the Ministry had submitted an initial proposal, i.e. an increase in the basic amount, it would have involved an increase in the remuneration of pensioners with a pension granted after 31 December 2019. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u11	Thank you and please Mr Bauer, who is in the debate. Mrs Pekarová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, colleagues, there is no dispute that pensions are low in the Czech Republic and that we should increase them. There is certainly no debate on this, and our parliamentary club will also support the release of this proposal for second reading. However, I would like to say a few words to motivate the current government. I'm a member of the so-called pension committee. Just so you know, this committee is rightly called the Fair Pensions Commission. It is a professional team under the auspices of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Based on her activities, I don't think the government cares about pensions and pensioners at all. The government increases pensions only so that it can probably brag about it before the next election or say that someone was against it or scare him off for asking some logical questions because he does not want Czech pensioners to do so. I think that if the government really wanted to address the current trivial situation of a large proportion of pensioners, Minister Jana Maláčová could have discussed the current proposal to increase pensions with experts and opposition policies on the pension board, as we have committed ourselves to in the status of this commission, which she was setting up. But I have to say, unfortunately, the secretary didn't do it. I feel that the Minister is using the pension committee purely to promote his policy and his media interests and does not seek consensus, but rather uses the Commission's actions to cover his ideas or proposals. Dear ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I would like to see the astonished expressions of the academics or members of the committee present who really understand the issue of pensions when the President of the Commission in the presence of the Minister invites them to vote on a proposal, when they explained a little while ago that this proposal is either unvoting or is left with logic. If the government were really interested in pensioners, it would also have to want to address the situation of the elderly in the future. But that is not what Minister Jana Maláčová has said in the past that there is no need for pension reform in our country, despite the opinion of all experts and despite simple statistics, that in 20 years there will be more tax payers than a million pensioners. [[18.30 hours]] I do not want to spend more time on this timeless subject today than is absolutely necessary, so I will just say that this government makes a significant contribution to the fact that a large proportion of pensioners will survive in 20 years only if their family takes care of them financially. Parts of pensioners will not mind this total dependence, but you will undoubtedly take most of them self-respect, independence and freedom. Perhaps the government feels that 20 years is a long time and that the future collapse of the pension system will be resolved somehow. But the opposite is true. Second-to-last comment at the end. By reducing your proposal again or reducing the merit of pensions, you send a clear signal to all businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen that paying higher social insurance premiums than the minimum makes no sense, and why they would actually do so. I would like to conclude by perhaps asking a few questions, perhaps not only to the Minister, but also to the Prime Minister himself or to the Minister of Finance. But tonight and last night, I put my work back on it and I read the Czech Government's programming statement, on which this government gained confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. On page 1 of this programming declaration, the absolute priority among priorities is written: firstly, we want pension reform. So I want to ask if it really is true that this government wants pension reform and whether, in the spirit of the government's programming declaration, it will actually prepare and enforce pension reform. Part of the programme statement is, inter alia, that you want to separate the pension account from the state budget and establish clear financial relations between that account and the state budget. So the next question is - and we discussed it also at the pension committee - if you are actually preparing a retirement account from the state budget. If, in the Government's programming declaration, you then turn to a chapter on social policy and employment, which is on page 8, it is also said that the government will enforce an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which will increase the basic income to 10 per cent of the average wage, thereby contributing to the increase in the standard of living of people with low pensions, where the basic income constitutes a significant part of the pension without undermining the principle of merit. So the next question is whether the steps you are really preparing are in the spirit of your government's programming statement, because there is no doubt that the previous increases in pensions that we have approved here, but this also currently leads to a reduction in the principle of merit, which is contrary to the government's programming declaration. Last but not least, the third question concerns even another chapter in the programming declaration, where it is said that the principle of merit will be strengthened and you will motivate people of active age to use the supported forms of individual security for old age. So it is also a question of whether you are really preparing for the pension reform, not the reduction that we are now seeing, but, above all, strengthening the principle of merit. Last but not least, the question is focused on the fiscal sustainability of the proposals, because when you look at the explanatory memorandum of this government bill, it is clear that the proposed measures will increase pensions and thus the expenditure of the state budget on pension benefits. Among other things, the explanatory memorandum states that the proposed measure means a leap increase in pension expenditure. And that is what the rapporteur said right here; it will be approximately CZK 7 billion in the next year alone, and approximately CZK 22 billion in the medium-term budgetary perspective is expected. Among other things, the explanatory memorandum states that from the perspective of the long-term sustainability of public finances, the proposed measure creates a need for additional fiscal consolidation, which means finding some other revenue. So my last question is: where does this government, or the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs want to find additional revenue, so that you can meet the commitments that are written out in the explanatory memorandum that you prepared? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u13	I, too, thank you, and before I invite another duly applied speaker, Mr Bláha is here with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u14	I thank the President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to report to the opposition benches through the President that I, as a member or Members of the Government Party, do not care whether or not the pension reform will take place, and I am ready to discuss this. I even have a suggestion as to how I think it should work. We have all the data, which means we know everything about everyone, everything is registered, just use the data. And believe that pension reform would be enormously simple, and at the end of the day, there would be a financial savings that would help us all in the light of the end of the tunnel, that it would be clear to us if we were to act responsibly in a way that we would all really reach that pension. It's just really a foul little bit to say the government or the government will prepare it, because you can't take it that way. We all have to agree on that. The opposition and the coalition need to do this as a single man, and in the end, it can really be what helps us all, because one day, even if I don't want to retire, I'm definitely going to go there and I don't care what pension I'm getting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u15	I thank Mr Bláh for his remark and now Mrs Pekarová, duly signed up for the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. We deal with the topic of pensions very often here, but it is always just non-systemic steps, one nonsystemic step follows the other, but we have not seen any complete real reform or really a system solution here either in the past or during this parliamentary term. In this parliamentary term, this is one of the main priorities of this government's programming declaration, as this is the first point that is mentioned there. And while the fair pensions committee has been set up, as has been said here, I must agree with Mr Bauer, the previous speaker, that the way in which these negotiations have been held at times in recent times, and the economists and experts who are invited there, who are members of this committee, are astonished by some of these proposals. I can only confirm that. We really then learned that one of those priorities, one of the four core priorities of the Commission, which was recently set up, was not that much of a priority, namely to address the sustainability of the system. Of course, we consider this to be very dangerous and long-term, until perhaps a little tiring of the opposition, we draw attention to the fact that this topic can, or this problem very soon can catch up with us as a whole republic. That is why, of course, I also have reservations about this proposal not only from the point of view of the unsystematic nature, but also fiscal sustainability, as well as a few questions directly to the Minister. You will remember that we adopted a resolution at the Chamber of Deputies meeting in June 2018 by which we asked the Government of the Czech Republic to immediately start work on preparing a change in the pension system. We have then given a term which, of course, is still far away, it can be said that we are asking the government to look for a solution for the future, namely by 31 December of this year, to introduce the Chamber of Deputies with the steps it has taken on this matter. However, given that, as a member of the Commission, I see that there is no too active work being started to see any systemic changes in this electoral period, so I would like to ask the Minister, on this occasion, whether he is processing any evidence at the Ministry, whether we will at all be dealing with one of the points in both the programming declaration and the status of the Commission as one of the objectives, and at what stage is the preparation at present. [[18.40 hours]] After all, the summer is coming quite quickly, we know that there are, say, more lax work, we too have a so-called parliamentary holiday, and then the year will swing to its second half and we will therefore stand here before this resolution is fulfilled. I am very curious, and I would therefore consider it appropriate for us to be aware of how serious this government takes and whether it complies with this provision or resolution, which has been adopted fairly unanimously here. I know that with the resolutions that we are adopting here, the government is not too hot-headed, it has shown this, for example, in the case of teachers' salaries. We have accepted something here, but it has not been achieved, although not only the government, but all parties are smiling and want teachers' salaries to be increased. In this case, all parties also consider the pension system to be an important solution, so I do not think that there would be a will, but it is obvious that it is lacking in the most important place where it should be. Another resolution that we adopted on this topic and issue was already on the Committee on Social Policy, namely on 7 February this year, when we did not just welcome the establishment of an expert work team for pension reform, but we called on this committee, this expert work team, to primarily address the income side of the pension system, and again, to present solutions to the sustainability of the pension system. So, once again, a very convincing majority was adopted by the resolution, including, of course, the votes of the government Members, because otherwise such a resolution could not be passed when the majority in the committee is held by a government coalition. Once again, it is a resolution that has some weight, and we should take care of it and, of course, follow it. It's simple. If we have any amount of money, we have some revenue, it is similar to any other economy, and of course we can imagine it for every household, which is definitely close to everyone, and may not be an economist. So if we have any amount of money, we can't spend more than we have. If we spend more, we are in debt, we have to deal with this in the future and only postpone the solution for another time. That is why, of course, there is a question of where the government will save, where it wants to take money, if the Ministry of Increases finds resources, if it will be able to save the roughly 7 billion crowns it will cost somewhere else. And we should certainly know the source of this money, where it will specifically affect our citizens, because of course the budget is not bottomless. Just as some here have quoted the explanatory report itself on this proposal, it is legitimate for us to know the answers to these questions, because, of course, the view is not flattering at all. And if we are talking about pensions in future years, not only in ten, fifteen, but also twenty years, then of course we are not only talking about people who are now in working age and are still going to retire, but often they are the pensioners who will of course live to that age, because the age of survival, praise God, is rising to us, and given that the retirement age, when I take it that, at 65 years old today, someone is retiring, so in 15 years, he will also know the consequences of not taking any solution now in 2019, because even his retirement age will be touching it at that time. So let's talk about the fact that these measures don't just affect current pensioners, or, respectively, they're supposed to affect future pensioners, but they're already affecting a number of current retired people. The rate of growth in pension expenditure achieved by this proposal is over 7 percent, while the rate of nominal GDP growth and total budget revenue is 4%. So here you can see the contradiction that pensions are growing faster than nominal GDP. And, of course, the TOP 09 is for the pension to be as high as possible, but it is for the pension to be as high as possible in order to be sustainable in the future. That means we don't start one big party now, but we won't be able to tighten up, and in the future we'll pay for it and we'll be able to count the damage. I therefore wonder very seriously how the Ministry and the Minister intend to address this situation. Where do they see the potential sources? And of course, it should be the resources that already exist today, not some plans, some conjecture that you are only discussing in the coalition, which are still in the phase of really just some wishes of one or the other party, because at a time when something is not really in our current legal order, it is just some reasoning and cannot be relied upon absolutely. So, of course, that's a legitimate question. Of course, we would like the growth to be as high as possible, but economic reality needs to be taken into account. I also wonder why the amount of CZK 900 was fixed and why it does not need to be 1000 or 1 500. It's obviously for a reason, and it should also be made clear to us. And if you've decided that this is the amount we're still able to put on, then you probably need to know where and where the money is from and where they're waiting, where else they'll save, what else the state won't finance. Again, the forecasts are such that while we are now giving about a third of the state budget to pensions to the expenditure component, around 2050, 2055 should be over 45 percent. Of course, expenditure on the health system, social care, will increase adequately with population ageing, so that more than 50 percent of the state budget will simply need to be spent on these social and health expenditures, and that will certainly be missing somewhere. So, from this point of view, it is more than important and necessary to address this issue, because not only the National Budget Board and other respected organisations are pointing out the unsustainableness of the system, and if we close our eyes before that, maybe now we can put in the media some pleasant statements and beat each other in the breast that we have been able to help current pensioners, and I really wish them very much to improve their standard of living, but we should also add together with one breath that we are also dealing with pensions in the future. However, we cannot deliver the second sentence at the moment, because this is not really the case. If so, I'd be happy to be misled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u17	I also thank you, and now, please, another one entered in the debate, which is Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words for the KSČM club about this amendment. In any case, I will still allow myself, through Mr President, to respond a little to my former colleague Mrs Pekarová, who spoke here about some reform, and how the Commission works and so on, as well as from the point of view of the TOP 09 and actually called on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to come up with some reform ideas and amendments to this matter. I would just like to say that the reform of the pension system is actually going on for a hundred years. Because constant changes, constant major and minor changes and reforms in the pension system are actually reforms of the entire pension system. I would also like to say that I am very sorry that we are talking about some sort of systemic reform here, but, for example, from the TOP 09 point of view, we have not really noticed any fundamental proposals that would tell us what fundamental reforms should actually be. Yes, through the President, Mrs Pekarová mentioned here that a resolution was adopted at the end of 2018, which said and imposed on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the entire government some proposals. In any case, the KSČM and I think that the ČSSD were against this vote, because we are fundamentally opposed to destroying the ongoing system, which proved to be the only possible and functional system for our pension system not to collapse and to open the door to us to address, as has been said, long-term funding and, somehow, across the political spectrum of the resolution, how we will actually address the long-term financing for not only current pensioners but also for future seniors. [[18.50 hours]] I would also like to say that the commission that is now being set up has not resigned, but, on the contrary, I think it is trying to solve the most pressing problems. And if, by your means, Mr President, Mrs Pekarová said that she lacked the fundamental reform proposals there, then she, too, has the right to initiate and propose changes that could be discussed on this committee, just as she can do on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Many Members have already packed their bags and are about to leave.]] In fact, I will be concerned with this proposal itself, where the main aim of the government proposal is to gradually compensate for the fall in the compensation ratio between the average wage and the average pension of 42.3% in 2013 to 33.9 percent in 2018. However, in order to increase the standard of living of pensioners beyond the wording of the current law, the House of the Czech Republic must adopt this amendment in a timely manner, which we are discussing today. Moreover, the proposal is based on below-average pensions, for which KSČM is very pleased, because the increase is not based on a calculation basis, i.e. merit, which has also been criticised here in previous discussions, but on a proportional basis... from variables and average income.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u19	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues to remain calm in the hall. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u20	I would like to say that the KSČM has long argued that the compensation ratio for the average pension to the relative net wage should be at least over 40%. However, given that there has been - we can say because of the right-wing coalition - two-year reduced valuation, and in recent years there has been a somewhat faster wage and wage growth dynamic, it is not enough to keep pace in the compensation ratio despite an increase in the level of valorisation from 30 to 50 per cent, which is always applied to wages with a two-year delay in the calculation. That is why this ratio has fallen and will not be settled even by 2022 if this proposal is adopted. I am glad that the KSČM has actually listed an increase in support of this government and one of the conditions of government support and requires continuous wage and pension increases. Unfortunately, determined wage dynamics are not copied due to the legal setting of the same fast growth dynamics of pensions, therefore extraordinary valorisation is the only possible solution. I would also like to say that we, as KSČM in the past, did not agree with the declines in the pension versus wage compensation ratio. And I'm also glad that we've recounted the condition I was talking about today. That means I will be very happy if we now discuss the increase to 900 crowns, if we approve, as has been said here, and the reduction to 30 days actually the discussion also in the committees, so that the promised increase for our seniors is actually observed in time from 1. 1. 2020. And I believe that even during the discussion of the commission, or the negotiation of another commission that addresses the future of our seniors and all of this, so that we will be talking about, first and foremost, whether there will be agreement across the political spectrum, but above all, we will talk about how we should not only address how to finance, but also so that the pensions in the future are not such that our seniors, if they stay alone, are actually worried about surviving at all, and the promotion of social benefits is, to a greater extent, the only possible solution for our seniors to survive and live, because even within the family, they really can't rely very often. And another big problem here is that we are growing, and in this society it is increasingly visible, people who will not be entitled to the pension itself, that means that for them the next solution will again be just social benefits, so that we do not remain on the street at a time when they actually have retirement age in quotation marks. And I think that's another big problem, because that number of people is really growing all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u21	Thank you. I have been given priority rights by the rapporteur, Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u22	Thank you for the floor. It is clear that we will not discuss this point today. I have signed up with priority law to officially give the proposal that I announced in the news report in the general debate to reduce the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u23	Thank you for the suggestion. Now, I ask you to be next to the debate, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would also like to recall one resolution by this House, in a resolution of 29 June 2018, in which: The Chamber of Deputies warns the government that the current financing of a pension scheme based primarily on labour taxation is unsustainable in the long run, and the Chamber of Deputies asks the government to look for solutions to this situation in the future and until 31. 12. 2019 has introduced the Chamber of Deputies to the steps it has taken on this matter. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Well, I'd like to ask you, Madam Secretary, to be as eager as you are to raise -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u25	I'd like to ask for some peace in the room. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u26	I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, to work as zealously as you are working on your image of pension increases, also to implement this resolution, which has been imposed on you by the entire Chamber of Deputies, and you have indeed brought these proposals to increase pensions at the same time, to come up with proposals where you will take it, because otherwise there is a risk that today's increase in pensions will indeed be at the expense of future generations, and we would certainly not consider that right. The press will have quite significant budgetary implications. According to the underlying materials, it's 7 billion next year. It is not stated where this is to be taken in the next year's budget, because, unfortunately, revenue is stagnating significantly this year. It's also supposed to be 7.8 billion a year later. And I wanted to ask you a few specific questions, especially who it concerns, and how this valorization is going to work exactly, because, at least as far as I can see from your wiggling head, it doesn't concern seniors who are going to retire next year, so they're not getting anything. In fact, we're only talking about 180 crowns in the whole law that retirees get beyond valorization. There's probably a consensus throughout the House, I suppose, across the spectrum, that at least the valorization of course the pensioners are supposed to get. So the 720 crowns are an undisputed amount that the entire House supports. We're talking about an additional increase. So I wanted to ask if these 180 crowns, which the retired retirees will receive in the course of the next year, will be increased by the foundation, which will then be praised by them. This means whether the cost of this measure will increase exponentially in the future, or whether it will remain with the 7 billion a year, and I would specifically like to ask whether there will be a reduction in pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-012-040.u27	Ambassador, 19 o'clock. First of all, I would like to call on the Members who have come to hear the conclusion of this debate to eventually settle in their seats. However, since it is 19 o'clock, we must stop the discussion and the debate. I register that I interrupt this in your speech, then Mr Chvojka is signed up with priority rights and then Mrs Golasowská in the general debate. There was a proposal to shorten the committee procedure, and since it is after 19 o'clock, we can no longer vote and discuss the laws. I am interrupting this point in the general debate and interrupting the negotiations of our current 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday, 26 April, by 9 o'clock. Therefore, since Thursday will not be the date of the meeting, there will be no written or oral questioning tomorrow. At the same time, I remind you that Thursday, April 25th, tomorrow, will begin at 10:00 p.m. 29. - extraordinary - meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good evening.
