ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u1	24. Government bill on the regulation of certain relations in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union /German press 368 - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that the Government's proposal is in accordance with § 90 para. 2 to approve this bill in the first reading. I will ask the House for peace and at the same time ask the Minister of the Interior and Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček, to take the position at the rapporteur's table, and my colleague Marek Benda, who is the rapporteur of this press, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. Shall we, Mr. Vice-President? [[Big noise in the hall.]] I will ask the House for peace so that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček can present a press of 368. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a draft law on the regulation of certain relations in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, which is available to you as a press of 368. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] The proposed modification aims to prepare the Czech Republic for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without ratified exit agreement, i.e. a variant marked as wild or hard brexit. In view of the current developments, this could expire on 29 March 2019. The purpose of the law is to prevent serious complications associated with this variant, and without the adoption of special legislation, approximately 8,000 UK citizens -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u3	Mr Vice-President, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace! If you are discussing a bill other than the regulation of relations in connection with the withdrawal of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, please in the foyer! There are at least 40,000 Czech citizens and at least 8,000 British citizens in the territory of the Czech Republic and our citizens in the UK. Please pay attention to him. It's a question we have to decide in the first reading. [[Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček already wanted to speak, but there is still noise in the hall.]] Just a moment longer, Mr. Vice-President... I'm serious, left to right... [[The noise is fading.]] Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u4	Without the adoption of special legislation, some 8,000 UK citizens legally residing in the Czech Republic from 30 March 1919 would be in the same position as other foreigners from countries outside the European Union, and this would be contrary to the approach guaranteed by the United Kingdom to citizens of the European Union residing in its territory, including several tens of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic. And ensuring reciprocity in relation to the guarantees offered by the United Kingdom is an essential starting point for the entire law. This proposed legislation consists in the introduction of a transitional period from 30 March 2019 onwards. from the time when the primary law of the European Union ceases to apply to the UK until 31 December 2020, during which the United Kingdom's citizens and their family members will be in selected areas. and legal persons established in the United Kingdom, guaranteed equal treatment to the citizens of the European Union, respectively. legal persons established in the European Union. The proposed legislation is thus focused on selected issues associated with e.g. with residence in the Czech Republic, acquisition of citizenship, access to the labour market, payment of certain benefits from the state social support system, recognition of professional qualifications, provision of financial services, legal or tax advice or treatment of medicinal products. In view of the need for speedy adoption of legislation, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Government, that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u5	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, and I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Marek Benda, to present a news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given how quickly this came after the previous point, which I was rather intensely engaged in, I did not even take the press with me, but they will bring it to me in a moment. However, the Minister is right. This is a reaction of the Czech Republic, which should prepare itself for a situation where there would be no agreement between the European Union and Great Britain on the conditions for the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union and a solution that would create for the citizens of the UK living in the Czech Republic in certain areas, and of course I am far from sure that they are all of them, provided sufficient rights to date and created this transitional period for the conclusion of an agreement. What would be important and what I think needs to be asked to the Minister for a question is whether at this point we are sure that this will also be reciprocal, if at this point we are sure that if we approve such a law, that the United Kingdom will also approve the law that provides this protection to the Czech citizens who are still living in the UK. Because I think it would be pointless for us to take some step and not be secured. Our task is to take care of our citizens and, secondly, the citizens of Great Britain. This is important that we want to protect the citizens of Great Britain, but we should first and foremost be sure that our citizens living in the UK are guaranteed the same thing. That means this is my basic question to the Minister. Do we have reciprocity? Otherwise, I am also prepared to support first reading negotiations on the basis of § 90. But first, I want to know if this will apply from the other side, and if we are sure that our citizens will be protected in the same way that we want to protect the citizens of Great Britain in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, which the President of the ODS and Vice-Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala are claiming first and foremost. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I apologise to colleagues who are enrolled in the debate. I would apply properly and not take advantage of my preferential right, but since I have been in charge of the House of Deputies since 12.00, this is how I did it. I would like to return to what the rapporteur, Mr Benda, has said here, and to underline it several times and to ask the same question, perhaps even more strongly, to the Government and to the Minister of the Interior. I have to put it to the Minister of the Interior and the First Vice-President of the Government because neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor the Prime Minister is here. And I will admit that I would wait for such a serious question, which concerns the foreign relations of the Czech Republic, at least the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And I know, of course, that Jan Hamáček has also been Minister of Foreign Affairs for a while and that he knows his foreign policy issues, but I confess that this is not enough for me. I believe that whoever is responsible for this department today will participate and will be present on a number of negotiations and, in my opinion, it is necessary for him to be present in the Chamber of Deputies for such a serious question and to answer the questions we have. Our question, which Mr Benda has already asked, is this: How, then, is the reciprocity arranged and ensured? In what way, under what promise, what agreement, at what level? How'd the meetings go? What promise do we have of reciprocity that Great Britain will do the same? On my behalf, for the Civil Democratic Party, I would like to say, and I will reiterate that we are ready to support this proposal. We're ready to support him in the speedy discussion, or at first reading. We care about relations with Great Britain. We believe that it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that bilateral relations with Great Britain and after its departure from the European Union are to the maximum extent possible similar to those between the two of our countries when Britain is in the European Union. But this is precisely why we need negotiations with the British Party to be conducted, so that the Czech Party shows interest in, for example, treating relations in a similar generous way to the Czech Republic, residence and life of the Czech citizens living in the UK. So, Minister through Mr President, although I could address you directly, but I will do so, I ask you to answer the question of how the reciprocity negotiations were going, what promise we have and what we can expect from the British side. And the second question that I would like to ask in this context and which is closely related to this is how the Czech government is preparing for a variant of hard brexit. And what I'm saying here is, yes, you can answer me, but a hard brexit is not a very likely option, so that's in the order of a few percent. And I would answer that, even if it were one percent, it's so serious that the government has to prepare for it in some way. My question is how this preparation is going and whether the government is somehow following this possibility and has some kind of crisis scenario. This is also related to my third question, which is also relevant in this context, and that is what the position will be taken by Czech representatives in the European Union if a variant of the agreement with Great Britain is renegotiated. What will the Czech Government want? What will be the position? What direction will the pressure of Czech diplomacy develop in such possible negotiations? Yes, it doesn't have to happen. The position of the European Union is quite harsh at the moment. I am convinced that it is not in the interests of the Czech Republic that it should be in our interest that the departure of Great Britain from the European Union should be on the basis of an agreement to ensure that these relations are as good as possible. And I expect the Czech Government to respect these interests of the Czech Republic during negotiations at European Union level. So, Minister, unfortunately, I only have to turn to you on this matter, because neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs is here, but I beg you to answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u9	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fial. I have two priority rights, namely Vice-President Okamura, and then the Minister of the Interior and Vice-President of the Government with priority rights is going to answer those questions. But I must respect the order of entries, and therefore first of all the priority rights of Vice-President Tomio Okamura, then the Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a law to regulate relations between the Czech Republic and Great Britain after Brexit. Together with Poland, our proposals for adapting relations with Britain are the most helpful, despite the obvious efforts of Brussels to punish the Brit for leaving the European Union. It is clear to us that the government does not have sympathy for Brexit, but it is pragmatic thinking, because on the one hand, Brusel is, but on the other hand, our duty is to help 40,000 Czech citizens who live and work in the UK, which is x-fold more than the Brit in our country. Similarly, Polák who also deal with efforts to protect their citizens in Britain from the war of Brussels-London are doing so. As far as agreements with Great Britain are concerned, there is only one priority for them to be extremely mutually supportive. [[12.00 hours]] What is essential to us is that the Brit living in the Czech Republic be viewed as citizens of the European Union in practice. Because we want the Czech citizens in Britain to have the same conditions as they do so far and we will prepare the Brit with us. Of course, we need to fine-tune other relationships. There is a need for the government to present bilateral agreements that would, with similar reciprocity, modify the movement of goods and money and other conditions so that our mutual trade and cooperation work as it has done within the European Union. In practice, it is just a matter of goodwill, which, of course, cannot be sought automatically. If Britain's departure from the European Union were to take place smoothly and economically, working, tourist and other relationships would not interfere with this, it would be a huge blow to Brussels bureaucracy, because it will prove that sovereign countries can cooperate with each other within Europe without the rules being determined by Brussels. We see the adoption of today's law as the first step towards a new Europe, where European nations and states work as equals with equals. The Brit have noticed our current efforts, and the British media praises us. It would be good to take advantage of their sympathy and establish above-standard relations with Britain in other areas as well. We should, paradoxically, take an example from Germany and France as well. Macron and Merkelová have also understood from their point of view that Brussels is not self-savable, and the European Union is also not working from their point of view, and that mutually beneficial cooperation between national states is essential. Therefore, as we know, they have concluded a new agreement with each other this week on close cooperation, because there is no general common interest even from their point of view. Each country first defends and must defend the interests of its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u11	Thank you. Minister Hamáček will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, the response to your three questions. First question - what guarantee do we have that Great Britain will treat Czech citizens equally? We are leaning on a document published last December, when the United Kingdom published a paper called White Paper, which relates to the so-called. The EU Settlement Scheme, and this document sets out the basic outlines of the future migration system of Great Britain. The document also works with a transitional period for citizens of the European Union by the end of 2020. It's identical there. What we are introducing, introducing or proposing also the Brit, and during this transitional period there will be a special approach by the United Kingdom to the citizens of the European Union, and their rights will therefore be guaranteed. This means that the citizens of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, who have lived in the United Kingdom for more than five years, will be entitled to the so-called. settled status. Citizens from the European Union who arrive in the United Kingdom before the end of the transitional period and do not have a five-year stay requirement will have so-called. Pre-settled status and during this will be able to accumulate years and then obtain a settled status or permanent residence. Similarly, this system allows close family members, citizens of the European Union, to have the opportunity to unite the family if a relationship is established before the end of the implementation period, the European Union's citizens will continue to be able to work, study and do business in the United Kingdom as well as so far as citizens of the European Union will be able to do so. pre-settled status or settled status will have access to health care, pensions and other benefits. So this is a document published by the British Party, and unlike the Czech Republic, when we have to go the way of amending the law, which is why we are discussing it today, the British Party claims that a sub-legal standard is sufficient, but we do not yet have the specific text of the British sub-legal standard, but if we were to wait for the British text, there would be a great risk that we would not be able to adjust our legal order as we are trying to do with this draft law. The second question was how we're going to have a hard brexit. I think that the best evidence is this law, which should treat all the essentials associated with a possible hard brexit, and we believe that we have affected all the circumstances or all the departments or issues in which there might be a problem. However, the fundamental problem is that the UK has not yet been able to say how it envisages the arrangement of mutual relations when it does not want a hard brexit and at the same time does not want an agreement that was on the table. The ball is really on the British side, and we have to wait to see what the Great Britain comes up with. Which is why I'm already answering the third question about how the negotiations are going. Of course, negotiations are held at European Union and UK level, but again, the Brit should say what they really want. We've learned all about what the Brit don't want, but we haven't heard what they want yet. The crucial problem is that, as Perry Mason said, it's impossible to eat a pie and want it to stay on this ticket. And there it has to do with the arrangement at the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Of course, we as the Czech Republic must also approach these negotiations from the point of view that Ireland is a member of the European Union, so we should also look at its interests and defend its interests. From my point of view, of course, the Czech Republic is ready to act. We are not preparing any bilateral negotiations, as my colleague Okamura suggested here. I really think that it is not a way to deal with this bilaterally, it must be negotiated at European Union and UK level, but we need to know what the UK really wants. This law, which we are discussing today, only serves to make sure that when all negotiations fail and it really comes down to the fact that the UK will speak without agreement, the Czech Republic will be ready for this, and the citizens of Great Britain will not get into a complicated situation from one day to the next, because if we did not have the law, they would really become citizens of a third country and would be viewed as well as citizens of Canada, Brazil and others, and that would of course be a problem. I believe I have answered all the questions, Mr Vice-President. If you have any more follow-up questions, of course I'm ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u13	Thank you, Minister. I have no way of commenting from this position, but I'm sure my colleagues will. We will now continue the debate with those who are duly enrolled in it. However, before I give the floor to Mr Bžoch, I have here a factual remark by Mr Benešík, who, of course, has priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to thank the Vice Prime Minister for his entrée, which I think was very informative. In previous entries, we learned that Brusel is punishing. If the United Kingdom seems to have a disadvantage, it should say what it wants. I assume the United Kingdom has competent leadership that it has a competent prime minister whose government has agreed to this agreement. As far as Brussels is concerned, it is true that the main negotiator was one, he negotiated, but the agreement was approved by another 27 states and, of course, on the other hand, by the UK. Let's see who Brusel is. Brussels is also the government of the Czech Republic. If anyone here says that Brusel is punishing, in which case it says that the British Government is incompetent because it has negotiated such an agreement, and then the Czech Government is punishing it. I do not think that this is true, I think that a good agreement has been negotiated, the problem has been what the Vice Prime Minister has already said, and the fact that the Brit really don't know what they want, and as a fellow Member from the House on the European Committee jokingly remarked, when he commented on the British demands that the Brit are trying to combine virginity and pregnancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u15	Thank you. Now, then, in the debate, Mr Bžoch. Mr. Peksa will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to present here our position on this law to the ANO Club. That's positive, of course. We support this law, and we are glad that the agreement across will be discussed in the 90th. We all know that Brexit is here, Brexit won't get lost anymore, and based on what's happening on the British scene today, we don't know if Brexit is really going to be the one in quotes, the hard Brexit, or the deal, whether the Irish insurance is going to change or not. I very much welcome the government bill, because it is the preparation for Brexit without agreement. Thank you again for the government's preparation in such a short time. As for the reciprocity that has been mentioned here, we can, of course, be based on the white paper and, of course, we also rely on the fact that the Angličan are gentlemen and that the agreements will be honored and that, even in their best interest, the agreement, whatever, is even in the case of hard brexit. [[12.10 hours]] I'll take one more comment here, and I'll probably be on the same wave as my colleague Benešík. It said here that Brusel. I'd like to know what Brusel is. Is it the EU Council, or is it the Council, or are they MEPs? In that case, if that's the case, Brussels is all these, so are we. So I would beg if someone says that Brusel is punishing someone, so next time, let them be specific and say what Brusel really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u17	Thank you. Mr Peksa, Mrs Vrecionová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna make the narratorial mistake of telling the point of the story right from the start. The pirates will support this bill. It is not, of course, a perfect law, but I think it puts out the worst troubles associated with the hard brexit, with the UK's withdrawal from the EU. I certainly do not want to question the decisions of British citizens, whether it was in the referendum on the speech or in the elections that followed. Everyone has a right to make a decision. The people of Great Britain have the right to make a decision, and they have the right to make a wrong decision. I certainly don't see this decision as good, because it's gonna bring us a lot of problems that we didn't have to have. The sad thing about the whole matter is that people who called on the UK to make this decision, then when they had to deal with the consequences, they ran away and now we don't really hear about them anymore, and the problems associated with Brexit are actually solved by completely different people, including, let's say, Members and citizens of the Czech Republic. I think the promises that were made there were just a lot of exaggerations. Just promising £350 million to the national health system, as it happened during the campaign, was a lie, and it turned out right after the referendum was announced. What a sad state the United Kingdom is in right now. The parliament is in chaos. The parties that rule there can't make a deal. It's already been mentioned here, no one's punishing the Great Britain here. The British Government has agreed to an exit agreement which would address all these problems, which it is intended to address, and many more. Unfortunately, the British Parliament rejected it. The problem is simply in Britain, not in ours, not in Europe. And the problem that has been created here is not going to go away with some abstract European Union, which is going to be borne by particular European and British citizens. I'm glad we have this law here because we need to solve the biggest problems. We need British medicines to be further available in Czech pharmacies for Czech patients, we need university diplomas obtained by our citizens in the UK, or others, to continue to be recognised in the Czech Republic, and we need to reduce the damage associated with this. What I want to say, however, is that the decision to leave the EU is, in my opinion, a mistake and what Mr Johnson and Farage Farage have said should be held accountable for that. And I firmly hope that Mr Klaus, Mr Okamura and others who call on the Czech Republic to take a similar step will take it to heart and will not repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u19	Thank you. Mrs Vrecionová, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will speak after her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u20	Thank you. Hello. Have a nice noon. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, let me start with a brief summary. On 23 June 2016, the citizens of Great Britain decided that they no longer wanted to be members of the EU. They said that their current condition did not suit them, and they thought that they would be better off outside this community. Some agree with this view, some disagree with it, and in any case, we must all respect it. I would just like to draw attention to one thing that this decision is completely legal, and it is nothing special. In some comments, we can read how the EU is collapsing, how all sorts of earthquakes are threatening. I don't think anything special is happening. The only thing that's extraordinary is it's just the first time. For example, remember many years ago when France decided to step out of NATO's military structures. Many years later, it entered these structures again, and nothing really happened. That means Great Britain will leave the EU on March 29th, which means almost two months from now. It is very unlikely that the decision would change in any way, although the European Court of Justice, by its decision, allows a unilateral withdrawal of the request for a speech. The only question is whether it will be possible until then to conclude an agreement that is acceptable to both parties, because it is not in the interest of the EU or the UK to divorce without agreement, and in any case it is not advantageous for the Czech Republic, whose interests should be promoted in the first place. But at this point, it seems that there will be no deal. Of course, I know that there is a great deal of time, especially in politics for two months, but we really have to count on a hard brexit so far. The EU is currently refusing to act; the British Parliament is refusing to agree with what the EU is offering. This is, of course, the Irish insurance policy, which, unfortunately, I believe, the European negotiator Barnier has set up on purpose because, in this form, Britain really cannot accept it. However, it is nothing unexpected, the British Parliament's disagreement with the negotiated agreement has been discussed for months. The media reports on the negative impact this situation will have on trade between Great Britain and other states, on how long the truck queue in Dover will be, on the status of foreigners living, working or studying in the UK. And now I have a number of questions that Marek Benda has actually asked here, Mr. Fiala. The Minister has actually answered, but I am not satisfied with the answer, because if I have the correct information, then you are referring to the agreement, the document to which the British Government has signed up, but it is precisely tied to the agreement. He's not tied to a hard brexit. That means he won't pay at that point. And now I miss that the Prime Minister isn't here, neither is the Minister of Foreign Affairs. You say that you will negotiate only through the EU, that there will be no bilateral negotiations. That means where do we have the guarantees of reciprocity? Because that document really won't deal with it in the case of hard brexit. So at this point, I wonder how the Czech government will behave, how it will continue to negotiate. I fully support the material that we are discussing here today, and the previous speakers from the ODS have already said so, and I fully support the status of British citizens living in the Czech Republic. But at the same time, I ask how we will ensure the reciprocity of our citizens' position in Britain. I would also like to ask, but rather the Prime Minister, what we will be in the negotiations, which, of course, leads the twenty-seventh for us, what we advocate there, what is our position on the Irish insurance policy, how the Czech party takes it, because it is not - you say that the ball is on the British side. I do not think that at the moment the EU can say 'we will no longer act' because the situation is therefore completely blocked. So I would really like to know what we are driving to Brussels with, how the Minister of Foreign Affairs negotiates, what is the position of the Czech Republic and what is the position of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if any. If by not being here, if you are able to answer me, Minister of the Interior. The Prime Minister is constantly telling how he deals with premieres, with the presidents of many countries, how he has developed a Europe-wide plan to deal with the migration crisis, but he could present this much more important plan now, and how the Czech Republic is prepared to leave Great Britain without agreement. Does the government plan to make further laws on this matter? I didn't see anything like that in the program. From my point of view, it just seems that the government has underestimated the preparations for brexit, and if I'm wrong, please. But I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u21	Thank you. Three factual points will follow. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Mr Peksa and Mr Zaorálek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would have waited until my proper application, which I am not interrupting, but since I have learned that my colleague Stanjura wants to exercise his right of priority, I still want to respond to the previous speaker because I am very interested in her opening... Let's say a few of those opening sentences where she said that nothing really happens that much. Thus, through the President, I do not feel that there has been anything going on these last two years. If we watched about the same news, we had the opportunity to be in the UK at the time, so this country is simply not dealing with anything else at the moment. Nothing but brexit. The European Union is therefore also forced to address a very important part of its agenda and to dedicate it to the withdrawal of Great Britain from the Union. And that it would be so little that nothing is happening, I certainly wouldn't dare say so. I think that there is a lot going on and that we are going to evaluate this much better in the future than we are today. But it's definitely not like nothing's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u23	Thank you. Mr Peksa and his point of order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u24	Thank you. I only have to respond briefly to my colleague Vrecionová through the President. Here was a comment in the sense that perhaps the question of Northern Ireland was set unnecessarily hard. This is no punishing Great Britain as you can try to insinuate. It's just a reaction to the reality that's there. Northern Ireland voted majority against Brexit. The Ir didn't want to get out, and there are reasons for it, because Belfast is tied up pretty strongly with the rest of Ireland. And there's a pretty common situation where people from the Republic of Ireland come to work in Belfast. And just by creating a hard line, these people just lose their jobs. That's the reality. And I wanted to say in connection with the Czech Republic, it is a relatively common situation in the Ústí Region that people commute to Dresden for work. It is actually closer from Decin to Dresden than it is to Prague. And this situation is repeated not only in the Ústí Region, but it is repeated in South Moravia, others. Many people from the Czech Republic work in Slovakia and vice versa. And just the minute you close that line, you're creating a pointless problem for these particular people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u25	Thank you. The following are factual points - Mr Zaorálek, Mr Blažek, Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u26	Thank you. Hello again. I would also just like three notes on what I've heard. I would also protest against saying that nothing is happening. You know, Britain is a pretty special country, and it does extraordinary things in its history. It was Tudor Jindřich VIII, who was able to leave the Roman Catholic Church and raided the Anglican Church from Europe. So we have an example of something similar in Britain that reminds us of today. And Britain just did these extraordinary things back in the 16th century, so it's not just anything. This is extraordinary and it's even quite British. Second thing. I also wanted to respond to what is currently happening and whether Europe could do more. You know, I believe that Europe is actually acting very well on this issue. And it's even because we usually put it on, so at this point, the fact that she doesn't step in doesn't give the ultimatums and that she gives space to Britain to make a deal is almost the best possible strategy for me today. And even for that, Europe deserves some appreciation that it did not just make the mistake of trying to force Britain to do something or to give it some conditions. This is just something where the strategy worked. And the third comment I asked for, I can't remember it now. [[He's laughing.]] That's... I'm so sorry I forgot it at the time. I guess there's nothing I can do. Only if I remember again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u27	Yes, thank you. Mr Blažek will now speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u28	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I don't really get involved in European politics around here, but I was provoked by my colleague Peksa. And I'll make a simple remark. We are talking about quite important and complex things, and we should not simplify the debate by saying, for example, the name of Okamura, Klaus. That'll stir up some emotion. And it seems that we are campaigning, as someone is more for Europe, someone less. The problem today, in my opinion, is not merely based on whether the Španěl, Čech or Slovák decide to leave the European Union. The problem is deeper and is that so called. the main drivers, which means Germany and France, stop thinking in European terms. And you can see it in absolutely factual things. I don't really care what anybody says, but the important thing is how they act. And I'll give you two examples. That one's a bit of an old age. When the crisis was in Ukraine, Russia was not treated by the European Union, but, as in the old days, Germany, France, Russia, and they talked about defining the space of their influences. There was no Minister of the European Union. I don't even know the lady's name. It means something that we don't even need to know the name. And the superpowers acted and enjoyed geopolitically, entertained spatially. We have now learned that Germany has made some kind of agreement with France, where, among other things, they are proposing Germany to the Security Council. But if I were to think pro-European, I would have to consider proposing the European Union there. But they speak purely and only about their interests and have no consultation with anyone if they do not consult with the Czechs, but with the Španěl, with no one to give this proposal, and they will talk again about Germany, France, Russia, England, Britain, China, whether they will be there or not. So one of the main problems that we're not talking about here is that even those who keep talking about the Union stop acting Europeanally. Maybe we're fighting something that de facto isn't anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u29	Thank you. Mr Zaorálek's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u30	Well, I don't know if we're supposed to be haunted right now by the fact that the powerful, as I understood Mr Blažek, intend to control Europe. The meeting in Aachen shows that the powerful, both President Macron and Chancellor Merkelová, are not very powerful today, and in those Cáchy they were more like ghosts and the text they accepted there is incredibly weak. So I wouldn't be scared of this. And I wanted to say one thing in the meantime. Do you understand what the lesson is? As the famous Coen movie says at the end when the chairman, the CIA chief, asks, comes from it. From this point on, from all of British history, one very important thing. It is the mistake that David Cameron made when he actually put his entire work on the European Union and then tried to convince people in the vote that they should vote to stay in it, and he failed. And unfortunately, in the case of Mrs. Theresa Mayová, it's a little similar story. In the beginning, Mrs Mayová said: "Better no deal than bad. And then she tried to convince people that the deal she made was good instead of warning them that there was no way out of this situation without losing it. So this creation of expectations that can't be met, that's what turns out to be the failure of the British political representation. He doesn't have anyone there today to tell people the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u31	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u32	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to the Minister that this will not only be about the bill, but about the question of brexit or foreign policy combined. Firstly, I want to say that we are really sorry that Great Britain is leaving the European Union because we are losing significant allies, particularly on free market issues. That's what I'm saying. And it should be recalled that it was the UK that opened its labour market on the first day following the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU, unlike those with the full mouth of European values and integration, who closed the market to us for five or seven years. So we're really sorry. On the other hand, we are to respect the decisions of the citizens of Great Britain. And unlike Mr Zaorálek, I think that Europe is doing this on purpose. [[12.30 hours]] And from Mr. Peksa. Are we really supposed to deal with the relationship between Northern Ireland and Ireland from the Czech Republic? And say what's right and what's wrong? And those are my questions. What is the position of the Czech Republic? What was she like, and what's she gonna be like about the Irish insurance policy? If you're watching the debate, the biggest stumbling block for Brexit to be a deal is the so-called Irish insurance policy. What does the Czech Government advocate? Who's he dealing with? Or is Barnier doing all this, and then we're just informed about how it turned out? Mr. Zaorálek says they are not ultimatums. I have heard from the leaders of the European Commission, the European Union, that we will no longer negotiate. Let them work there, let them argue in this parliament, we will no longer negotiate, we no longer have a place to go. I see it as coercion, like a raised finger, as punishing someone who has taken the liberty of saying that he wants to leave the European Union. Our concern is for us to have the best relationship with Great Britain - and I think it is common, that there is no difference between government and opposition. The bill is good, so it will also have support for us and for the short hearing. But we don't have a negotiated reciprocity. And my colleagues at ODS say that first we have to take care of our own citizens and then the others. Who's gonna negotiate with us? If it's level E27, respectively. Twenty-seven, will all countries want as generous access to the citizens of Great Britain as we do, or will they negotiate for all countries and then those who will not have such generous access win? And that's almost certain. So let's say it in advance. And let's pour some pure wine. When did anyone discuss reciprocity, and when will they act from today, if we approve? Who's ready for this? Home Secretary, Secretary of State, Prime Minister? Who's gonna deal with the Brit, Tusk, Juncker? I don't know. Those are the questions we wanted to hear. You can imagine another European Parliament where this is such an important law, such important foreign policy issues, and look behind me, look at the government benches, how important it is for the government of the Czech Republic, how important our citizens who live in the UK are to it. Where's the Prime Minister? Well, Switzerland. But he's supposed to defend the interests of Czech citizens here, not in Davos. Where's the Secretary of State? Where are the other members of the government? Just this fast, approve it, come on, 90, we have to do one, we've already given it 65 minutes, maybe 75 minutes, fast, fast. I think these are legitimate questions and that our citizens in the UK are especially waiting for an answer. They are waiting for an answer as to how the Czech government will help them. By adopting this law, they will receive no relevant answer. They will get an answer as the Czech Republic stands up to British citizens living in the Czech Republic. I'm saying the proposal's good. But we want to know, and I believe that you too want to know how the Czech government will take care of our citizens who live and work in the UK. But in order to get answers - with the honourable exception of the Minister of the Interior, I must appreciate this - we do not have specific government representatives here to answer these questions, or to discuss with us the position of the Czech Republic in this difficult and complicated question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u33	Thank you. Three factual points will follow - Mr Benešík, Mr Peksa, Černohorský, in that order. Mr. Benešík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I only have a few comments on the previous performances. It is the North Irish peace process that is based on the integration of both countries, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, into the European Union. And if there's a hard brexit and a hard line without the exception, there's a good chance that violence will be restored. I do not think that the United Kingdom and even less the rest of the European Union, where the Republic of Ireland belongs, can be interested in other violence, terrorist attacks and sectarian violence. As far as the European Union's foreign policy is concerned, this is really just an intersection of all possible foreign policies of all Member States. The European Union de facto does not have its foreign policy. Therefore, the individual Member States are autonomous. veto law applies in European foreign policy. That means we don't have to be involved in anything we don't want to be involved in. Yes, the United Kingdom opened up the labour market to us as well as the other seven or eight states of the 15th time. The others didn't lock him up. We just had to have a work permit. But the United Kingdom is also leaving because of the labour market. They're not leaving because they're worried about migrants from Pakistan. They are bothered by migrants and workers from Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Poland. That was one of the main arguments of Brexit supporters. And as for Prime Minister Zaorálek, I hope Jindřich VIII. won't be quite as good a role model for brexit. He did the separation of the church, virtually. He separated the Anglican Church from the Catholic Church, and he also had several wives executed, and I think that was one of the great reasons why he did it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u35	Mr Peksa and his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u36	I will only respond quickly to my colleague Blažek and Stanjura's lords through the President. It is rather strange when colleague Blažek pauses over the fact that France and Germany, in his view, should pay more attention to the interests of other European states, and on the other hand, wonders that the Czech Republic takes into account the interests of Ireland. Ireland is part of the European Union, part of the European Economic Area, part of the Schengen area, and simply part of the free space where we can move. And if this common space is threatened, it logically harms the interests of the Czech Republic and Czech citizens, as well as Czech entrepreneurs, because they also do business there. So much for that. I would still like to say - please follow the discussions of the Committee on European Affairs. It is not true that Mr Barnier has not consulted this position with the European Union States. He personally introduced himself to the committee, introduced his strategy to us, and we discussed it with him. This means saying that it is some European Union that is punishing, I think it is really chuffed. I believe that your colleagues Skopeček and the Zahradník have also been there through Mr President, so there is no reason why you should claim that these negotiations are somehow being pulled away from us. We are here to defend our common European interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u37	Thank you. Mr Černohorský, followed by Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u38	Thank you for the floor. I was going to respond to President Stanjuru, but he's gone somewhere in the meantime. The insurance policy in the form of a free passage in Northern Ireland is linked to the so-called big Friday agreement, which does not concern the European Union at all. On this basis, all the activities that were intended to merge Northern Ireland and Ireland were actually terminated, and the Irish Constitution was amended on the basis of the referendums that took place there. On the basis of this, Northern Ireland, by having secured free passage and having been able to cooperate, to visit families, so of course all the fighting stopped there regarding the connection of Northern Ireland to Ireland. And what the Ir are most afraid of is that these warriors will come back. That is why they are the main ones who insist on this so-called Northern Ireland insurance policy so that they do not once again appear on the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u39	Thank you. Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u40	Mr Vice-President, an addition to Michel Barnier. As was rightly said here, he negotiates for the assignment. He negotiates, but he doesn't approve of anything. Michel Barnier was here in the Czech Republic several times, I met him several times personally, he was on our committee. The committee was open, you had the opportunity to discuss it. We've invited everyone. A lot of Members came, a vast majority didn't come. But the key message is that we don't make Michel Barnier the maker and the principal decider. He actually negotiates according to the award and regularly informs and informs about the conduct of the negotiations. The decision-makers are representatives of individual Member States, i.e. the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Germany, France. That's the Brusel we're talking about. It's not some imaginary Brussels. If one state doesn't agree, of course there isn't. And the fact that we have been kept informed about the positions of the government of the Czech Republic and about Brexit, on a regular basis, is simply a fact and there are representatives of all political parties in the Committee on European Affairs, so we cannot complain about the lack of information. Please, let's stop saying that Brusel negotiated it and that Brusel decided it. This Brussels is, of course, us and the government of the Czech Republic. If we do not like what the Government of the Czech Republic has approved at European level, let us say so, but let us not hide behind some imaginary Brusel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u41	Thank you. President Radim Fiala with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on brexit. I cannot agree, I must respond to Mr Peksa, who has spoken here in that there is an Okamura or Klaus or some others who want to propose a performance of the Czech Republic. But that's a legitimate thing. The fact that the citizens of Great Britain decided themselves in a referendum to leave the European Union, so apparently the majority of the citizens of Great Britain had some objective or subjective reason to decide to dissolve the European Union. As far as the Brexit Agreement between the European Union and Great Britain is concerned, I think that the agreement for Great Britain was humiliating, it was completely inadequate, actually making Great Britain a non-member. That means the UK should have all the responsibilities as a member, only it can no longer participate in those decisions. That, too, is not possible for the Eurosceptics in the British Parliament to raise their hand for such an agreement, and I do not blame it at all. In that agreement, for example. was that the United Kingdom should still be subject to the European Court of Justice, that there should be a transitional period, which the European Union, on the basis of its assessment, can continue to extend continuously until - that was not written at all when. That, of course, the European Union rules apply to their trade and other things. So the deal just wasn't good. But we have said that this agreement will not be good, and you are saying that it is not a punishment on the part of the European Union, and I say that it is a punishment, that it is an example of how the European Union will treat all the countries that will be able to declare a referendum or whose citizens would, for God's sake, vote in that referendum to withdraw from the European Union. It's just punishment. And we said so. And that the government is making a law that would protect Czech citizens in Britain and products, nostrification of products and services - I think that is correct. However, the government should have started with this a year ago because I was simply convinced from the start that this agreement would not have happened, that there would have been a hard brexit, that all the other countries in the European Union would realize what would happen if they had the courage to talk about something like this and act. Some of my colleagues also said that nothing is really going on. I don't think anything's wrong either. Financial markets may be shaken in the short term, legislation may be adjusted in the short term, but nothing serious will happen in the future. Great Britain will once again be a sovereign state and will make its own decisions. So what we see, especially on Czech public television, what the lines will be at the borders, what everything will be, some media are looking for disaster in all parts of social, political, economic life, just to point out what a disaster it is, so I look forward to the conclusion of these agreements when we simply see for ourselves. Of course, some media will tell us again what terrible things are going to happen, but I am convinced that our citizens in the UK and the citizens of the UK in the Czech Republic will not seriously jeopardize this, and there will be a balance to enable those two countries to cooperate. Finally, let me make one more comment. I am convinced that if the UK negotiates with all countries separately, there will certainly be a better outcome in these negotiations than when the European Union acts for those countries. Look at this, it's what my colleague Stanjura said here, it's just that they're not partners in the European Union, they're economical, economical rivals who have their own interests in their head, and it's normal, it just works like that, and we can't expect anything else. That means I am convinced and I am asking the government to act for the Czech Republic with Great Britain in these matters, and the sooner we negotiate those terms, the better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u43	Thank you. Two factual points, first Mr Zaorálek, followed by Mr Klaus. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u44	I can't forgive myself for not reacting to it because it feels like it's just untrue, inaccurate, and it's not possible to leave it unanswered. You know, if I could really see something going on in Britain, that we're being hostile, it would just bother me, and I would be against it. But here, it's just the introduction and confusion of the public. The problem with this thing is not that we're throwing sticks at the Brit, it's just given by it - I'll make it simple. When you've been baking cake with someone for 45 years, and then the guy says he wants to get the eggs out of it, it's just a really hard thing to do. This is a painting that's been used somewhere, with the omelet and the eggs. That means this is a tough process after 45 years of making contracts and bonding with someone. After this intertwined thing, it's just not easy. So the first thing is that you need this person to define exactly where he wants to go, to say if he's for the Norwegian variant or customs union or something. But when you have a situation in Britain that the conservative party itself is torn to pieces, that only 150 Members support the Prime Minister, 60 is for hard brexit, 25, 30 are pro-European, she actually has a hard time keeping her own party together, which turns out to be almost the main task she's given herself. The problem isn't that we throw sticks. The problem is, on the British side, it turns out it's impossible to figure out where they're going. So what you said isn't true. The difficulty of the process is in something other than Europe, and Europe is being polite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u45	Thank you. Mr Klaus's factual point will be followed by the factual remarks made by Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u46	Hello. I really would not like to evaluate the conservative party, just as the conservative party does not evaluate the Czech Social Democratic Party. It is purely that British citizens have shown their will. Unlike most of the House, I don't think there's gonna be any Brexit, because the situation is so awful that... Imagine if it were the other way around, if the referendum were to end by 4 percent on the other hand, well, we have thumb headlines, as the people decided and rejected Eurosceptics and half-fascists etc., and the water closes. When people decide the other way around, we've been arguing here for about three years, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be taken out of cake, etc. And the will of the people is not fulfilled. So this debate is also irrational. I don't think there's gonna be any Brexit because there's gonna be a second vote and a third vote and it's gonna be dealt with when we're all retired. I guess that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u47	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u48	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to the President of the SPD by your means, Mr President. He was such a special galimatyáš, like when a pussy with a dog cooks a cake, because it's really hard to know whether you're interested in protecting or defending the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, or whether you have more on your mind the interests of British citizens when you say that the Union is so evil to them and such a bad deal on her part. So is this agreement at least good for the citizens of the Union? Can you at least agree on something in the sense of how it was supposed to end? I understand that this is a mandatory rhetorical exercise that the MP for the SPD wants here, who is close to putting a referendum on the withdrawal from the Union, so he needs to play it, and now it's a difficult situation for him, if the Brit in that Union still don't know how it's going to be. We see that it took a very long time, and we still haven't actually gotten a proper result. He'll be, he won't be tough, he won't be hard on the brexit etc. So, in this case, they really are, I guess, very complicated for you, very difficult to get to, but could you tell us if you at least agree that this agreement is advantageous for us?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u49	Thank you. Mr Benda, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u50	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was only provoked by Mr Zaorálek with his eggs, omelets and others. I am one of the memorials of this hall, and I remember how in 1992, we were able to divide a common republic, which had been linked much longer and much more thoroughly, and it was possible when we wanted to. Luckily, the Social Democrats weren't there, that's true. If we let Miloš Zeman get involved then we have a referendum and an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u51	Thank you. Now with Mrs Pekarová's proper application, Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u52	Thank you for the floor. For the entertainment of the right part of the spectrum, I'll avoid the connection of a hard brexit. However, I wanted to introduce you here very briefly to the opinion of the TOP 09 on the bill presented. I would like to say, although this may not be quite common from the opposition party, to appreciate that the Minister called a meeting of Members of the various parliamentary parties at the beginning of the year, who had the opportunity to have a good time and say their objections and their opinion. You know, this solution doesn't, of course, please any of us. As a matter of fact, none of us are pleased that we have to say at all that Brexit is ever going to happen or maybe it will happen. But because it is in the interest of our citizens, who live in the UK, to ensure that the course is as smooth as possible and to avoid any unnecessary difficulties, I think that the Czech Republic's helpfulness here is appropriate. And, of course, what many colleagues here want to hear from the Minister, so that there will be further discussions, negotiations with the British Party, so that we can have the insurance, or some kind of guarantee of reciprocal access from the UK to our citizens, as soon as possible, if possible, and so that we do not rely solely on the memorandum that has also been presented to us. Since this is often heard here, I think it would be worth entertaining, if we should still adopt a resolution, a accompanying resolution, about the bill which we would commit to the governments to lead such negotiations and to make this reciprocity happen. To make it clear that our main concern is the interest of Czech citizens and that we see this situation as essential for the approval of this law. Of course, it is okay that, at a time when we really do not know how this particular performance will take place, we can be sure in the law that it will only apply if it is necessary. I think that the efficiency, as it is designed there, is really very well designed. Therefore, we can certainly adopt some accompanying resolution on this. So I'm sure I'll consult with the rapporteur here on the specific text, and then I'd like to introduce her to you in a detailed discussion. You know, I'm sure there's a good thing about brexit in the sense that there's something good to be found on every bad thing, so I'm sure I see it somewhere other than many in this room, but I see it in one thing. That, on a live broadcast, the UK is showing us the danger of making citizens express themselves in a referendum on such fundamental and serious issues that have a fatal impact not only on their lives but also on life in other countries around them. And we can see that even a country this strong, so numerous in terms of population, with a long history, with a real example of parliamentarism, we can see how difficult it is to deal with it. What a very difficult situation this is for the politicians who are here, and how beautifully it is also to see that those who have caused this are no longer there in the negotiations. Where are those who called for this, who had their mouths full of different, often demagogic, information or disinformation in the campaign before the vote? It remained a divided society in the UK, which each has completely different ideas about how it should go on. Parliament can't deal with this right now. The country itself doesn't know what it wants, how it goes on. And the architects ran away from all this. Just as Mr Okamura has told us his few sentences here, but he is no longer willing to participate in this discussion to be able to respond. So I think it is also good to realize that we are watching something here live that, if a referendum was written about our country's withdrawal from the European Union, we could then experience on our own. And that it's good to learn that lesson. That we're not supposed to do that. So much for that, and I am going to turn to the rapporteur on the accompanying resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u53	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Mr Skopečka, I will ask the President of the MPs to tell me whether we should continue to discuss this point even after 13:00, or for how long. If I do not receive such information from the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament, I shall, in accordance with the practice of this House, interrupt negotiations at 13:00. Mr Skopeček has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to be brief. To begin with, of course, I will support the bill as well as my colleagues. I take this as the first step towards preparing a potential brexit without agreement, although I firmly hope that there will be an agreement in the end. And I agree with what has been said here that the government should prepare, even if it thinks that the probability of hard brexit is low, so it should be responsible for preparing for further steps that would be related to this exit without agreement. But what I want to stress. It's not just about the brexit. The Czech government should and must be active, whether Brexit ends up smoothly, hard, or whether we give it any adjective. Because then there will be a negotiation period and the European Union will negotiate trade agreements with Great Britain. And that's just the national interest of life for us. Here I am waiting for a very active role by the Czech Government on the ground of the European Union. A very active role in ensuring that the potential future trade agreement between Great Britain and the European Union is as liberal as possible. For the Czech Republic, the UK is a very important export market. It is the fourth place in the order of importance of export markets. It is simply in our life's interest to retain this market even after Great Britain leaves the European Union so that we can export to it. And I disagree with some colleagues. When I ride with the Committee on European Affairs on European Union soil, there I simply feel the efforts of some British colleagues to punish her, salt her by allowing herself to choose to leave this amazing project of the European Union. I am concerned that the rationality of the European Union will not be played primarily at that time and that there will be an effort to show that Britain will be far worse off economically after leaving. I think it will be an irrational policy because, like the Czech Republic, the European Union as a whole has a positive trade balance with Great Britain. It will take more to Great Britain than it will, and it is the European Union's vital interest in making these trading conditions as liberal as possible. So when my colleagues mentioned that the Prime Minister was missing here, that the Foreign Minister was missing, I also miss the Minister of Industry and Trade, because it should be a damn important topic for her too. Because, as I say, the UK is the fourth or fifth most important market for the Czech Republic. And the government must exert its strength and activity to convince its European partners that it is in the interests of the European Union to negotiate the most liberal trade treaty. I will also respond to some of my colleagues through the President, especially to my colleague Peksa, who said that Britain has made a bad decision. I reject that terminology. We can say here that we are sorry that we regret this decision that we would have imagined others, but I would never dare say that the sovereign decision of the British people was made wrong. It's just their decision, they made it, we respect it. But to master Great Britain, whether she made the wrong choice or not, she is completely absurd from the position of the Czech Republic and completely out of the question. That's the first thing. I don't think Great Britain's in decomp. The fact that there is a political situation, the fact that this Parliament is dealing with emotions in some way, is clearly a matter. This is a superpolitical theme that would become a superpolitical theme in any country and, of course, it would also be reflected in emotions in any parliament. I think it's really absurd to master the cradle of parliamentarianism from being decomposed by pirates. For me, Great Britain will be decomposed when two big anchored parties are not dominated, but when they reach Great Britain, pirates will enter their parliament. Then I will consider the real Great Britain as being in decay. But now I really consider her a stable country. This is probably for brexit, and let us try our best to convince our colleagues at European Union level to punish Great Britain's ambition not to do so. It's in our life's interest, it's in the life's interest of our companies that they export to Great Britain. It is in the life interest of their many employees, namely our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u55	Thank you. I therefore state that, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, we will continue after 13:00 until we vote or decide on this point. At the same time, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies that we cannot move forward the beginning of the afternoon negotiations because we have firmly placed points at 14.30. So the break's gonna be a little shorter. Now there are factual points. With a point of fact, President Radim Fiala is the first to be registered, followed by Mr Spaniard. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u56	Thank you for the floor. I owe the answer to Mrs Pekarová, who is enthusiastically serving the European Union. I do not consider this win, which she may consider to be a win for the EU, a long-term win for the Czech Republic as well. Since I consider the European Union, I would like European nations to work together as sovereign nations on their own without anyone dictating to them what to do, who to take into their own country and the like. I consider the European Union a totalitarian state. And I'll tell you why. Because if someone voluntarily comes in and wants to perform, too, but the superstate is already putting conditions and demands and sticks under his feet so that it can't be done, and, as colleague Klaus said, maybe it doesn't think it's going to happen at all, it's probably not a democratic path. So unfortunately, I do not consider this a win in the long term for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u57	Thank you. The following is the factual point in fact made by Mr Spaniard. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't usually talk much. During this whole discussion, I have finally heard some words about the Government of the Czech Republic, how the Government of the Czech Republic must ensure that we negotiate the best conditions for the Czech Republic and for our national interests. And ironically, I would like to say that I am terrified of adopting a resolution to break up the RVHP, or even the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u59	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for the debate, nor do I see anyone. So I'm done with the debate. Interested in the final words? The Minister is interested, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u60	Thank you very briefly, because I believe that in answering your questions, Mr Vice-President, I have more or less covered the main concerns that have been raised here. I say again, we are based on what the United Kingdom has committed itself to in relation to, of course, the political declaration, but in relation to the citizens of the European Union, that is the content of the White Paper. And that's where we'll probably be when we get to know the text of a possible sub-legal standard that will regulate it, so then we'll be able to launch some kind of information campaign through our London representative office or the consulate in Manchester towards our citizens. But we really don't have any specific text of the decree or any British standards yet. Once we get to him, I'm sure we'll be handling him properly. And, of course, I assume that the commitment will apply. That means, as generous as we are, the Brit will be towards our citizens. I do not want to comment on the political positions, I simply assume that the divorce between the Union and Great Britain is complicated and is not a question that can be resolved in a few hours. In my opinion, the Czech Republic must defend the interests of the Czech Republic, respectively. the government of the Czech Republic must defend the interests of the Czech Republic. I think that, as the agreement was proposed, it was acceptable to both parties. The British party decided to throw the deal off the table, perhaps negotiating something else or better, but we still haven't heard what it should be. And as a member of the EU, of course, and I repeat this, we must defend the interests of our allies, i.e. The Republic of Ireland, and we must take them into account. So much for me, I guess. I want to thank you for those very helpful words about the work of the Ministry of the Interior and this law, and I want to ask all of you for his support, because I consider this to be a crucial thing so that we can then demand something from the UK as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u61	Thank you. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u62	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be fairly brief. The debate that has been held, in addition to everyone's statement that they will support the debate, even in the 90th, and will not veto, has been more debate about brexit, its reasons than that of this law, which is being presented to us by the Minister at the moment. It has been indicated that the accompanying resolution of Mrs Adamová Pekarová will be heard in a detailed debate, which I presume will happen. At the same time, I am merely saying that I understand that we need to approve internal legislation at this point. I do not consider it advantageous that we approve before it is clear how it will be on the British side. And in negotiations with the senators, I'm going to say, stall as long as possible, wait until we know that the British side has acted in the right way. But since we have a more complex legislative process, we have to go to the Senate, we have to go to the President of the Republic, so I recommend that we comply with the Minister in the 90s now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u63	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before a detailed debate can be launched at all, we must vote that we agree to continue the discussion of this proposal and its approval at first reading. I therefore call on Members who are not yet here. Before everyone comes, I'll introduce you to my apologies. Mr Vyzula apologizes from 14:30 to 16:00 for personal reasons today. Mr Klaus apologizes today from 17.30 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons and 25. 1. from 11.30 to the end for work reasons. From this afternoon and tomorrow morning's meeting, Mr Roman Sklenák apologizes for personal reasons. Mr Roman Onderka for business reasons today until the end of the day. And for business reasons, Daniel Pawlas from 2:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. We're ready for the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 368 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 37 vote, 178 Members voted in favour of 169, no one opposed. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am opening a detailed debate. Mrs Pekarová Adamová is enrolled in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u64	Thank you for the floor. So, based on the debate that has taken place here, and I have already called for the accompanying resolution to be tabled, I think it is a simple one sentence, so I quote: "We call on the government to have an intense debate on UK reciprocity rules towards citizens of the Czech Republic, as approved in this law." So it's just a challenge, and I don't think it's that hard to fulfill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u65	Yes, thank you, we will vote on this accompanying resolution after we vote on the approval of the law. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is reporting for a detailed debate, and I am ending the detailed debate. We will now proceed to the vote - I am still asking the final words after a detailed debate whether there is interest, the Minister, or the rapporteur. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the regulation of certain relations in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, according to the House of Press 368'. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 38, registered 178, for 170 Members, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Now we still have to deal with the proposal tabled in a detailed debate, the motion for an accompanying resolution. I don't have his lines. Does the rapporteur have a text? He can read. Please read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u66	I will read it with permission: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to hold an intense debate with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on reciprocal rules by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland towards citizens of the Czech Republic, as approved in this law. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u67	Thank you. I am opening the vote on this accompanying resolution. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 178 Members registered, for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point. I announce that the Organising Committee will meet at 13.15 and the Chamber of Deputies at 14.30, when we have firmly placed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-003-024.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We shall therefore begin the next part of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We have a fixed point on the agenda.
