ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-022-044.u1	44. Proposal by Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš and others for the issue of constitutional law amending Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws / House print 229/ - first reading I ask that Mr Lukáš Černohorský, Mr Lukáš Černohorský, and Mr Roman Kubíček - who is already sitting there, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We interrupted the debate on this point on 12 February, the merged general debate was closed, the motion for rejection was not accepted. I would remind you that the Chamber of Deputies ordered this proposal to the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee. In addition, proposals were made for the commandment to other committees. Mr Kubíček proposes a monitoring committee, Member Kateřina Valachová, a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic, Member Zbyněk Stanjura of the Budget Committee... [[Attention from the diaper that there are no members of the government.]] Oh, so we don't have members of the government present here. Well, here comes Secretary Dostálová. I was about to interrupt for a moment, but the secretary rushed in. So, Member Zbyněk Stanjura budget committee, Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and Petition Committee. So this is where Mr Stanjura proposes three committees. So we will now proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled at the commandment to the other committees for discussion. So I have an application for check-out. At the same time, I will arrange for all Members to be summoned to the Chamber. [[Gong.]] Please log in with your voting cards again. [[Members meet slowly in the hall. The President is waiting.]] We will give room for Members of Parliament to arrive after the break, and we will wait a little longer. So, we know what we're going to vote on. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposal for this proposal to be ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[Member Stanjura has questions for the vote.]] President Okamura: This has already been voted on yesterday. It says here in the note that... wait a minute, I'll finish the vote. Voting number 240. Registered 127 Members, for 123, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Just for Chairman Stanjura. We interrupted the discussion of this point - once again - yesterday, on 12 February. The joint general debate has been closed. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. And now we are voting on the commandments of the various committees. There. [[A Member of the Holomčík claims the floor.]] Is that for the vote? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-022-044.u2	Thank you. I'd just like to say for the tape that I voted in favour, and it turns up that I've been delayed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-022-044.u3	Okay. But you're not questioning the vote? [[Member of the Holomčík: I do not question this vote.]] Thank you. I will now just say that we have decided that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee as the next committee. Next, we have the proposal by Mrs Kateřina Valachová to order this proposal to be discussed by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 241. 136 Members are registered, for 132, against 0. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal was ordered for discussion by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Another suggestion. We have three proposals from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. So you're the first to propose ordering to the budget committee. We will vote on the commandment to the budget committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's the number 242 vote. 140 Members are registered, for 38, against 37. The motion was denied. The next proposal is to order the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's the number 243 vote. 145 Members are registered, for 132, against 1. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as another committee. And the final proposal is the commandment of this motion to the petition committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's the number 244 vote. 146 Members are enrolled, for 31, against 71. The motion was denied. We have therefore discussed and voted on all the proposals that have been made. So this is the end of the discussion at this point. Before we proceed to the next point, I have some apologies here. Mr Adam Kalous apologizes today between 14.30 and 17.00 for reasons of work, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologises from 14.30 to 19.00 for reasons of negotiation, Mr Pavla Golasowská apologises from 18.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, and Mr Špičák apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. We will now proceed to another press, which has also been interrupted. This is about
