ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u1	41. Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended /house print 317/ - first reading The Government has not delivered an opinion on this House's press. I prosit that Mr Stanislav Grospič present the proposal for the appellants. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Ambassador, please wait a moment before the O.R. calms down. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, you have a novel in front of you, which is not very big in scope. It is marked with a print of 317 and has already arrived in the Chamber of Deputies on 1 November 2018. It deals with things that are vitally important, I dare say, for the vast majority of workers, both in private and in the public sphere. It is a concept of vacation and the length of its drawing. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] We can define vacations in different ways. We can define her as a mother, as a father. But the proposal submitted to you deals with leave as a short absence of an employee's absence from the workplace in terms of his entitlement to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Noise levels have reached unacceptable levels. prosit klid down. So please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. From the point of view of his entitlement to leave for recovery, usually referred to as without any attributes, as is known by the Labour Code. Where applicable, depending on the type of entitlement to this leave for a calendar year, or the proportion thereof for days worked or in the form of supplementary leave, it was also previously referred to as further leave. From this point of view, I would like to say that the bill you have before you is based on an assessment of the legal situation in force and the objective of the proposal. The basic area of leave, which is defined by the provisions of Section 213 of the Labour Code, is Act No. 262/2006 Sb., as amended - I will say only the Labour Code - is defined by declaring the minimum length of leave per calendar year. Furthermore, it determines the length of leave according to employers so that the basic amount of leave is five weeks for employers who do not carry out business activities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u5	Mr. Ambassador, I will interrupt you again, and I will invite colleagues, particularly at my right, to lower their voice or to really move negotiations outside the O.R. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u6	I, too, thank you, Mr Vice-President, because I understand that social issues after the election of right-wing colleagues are no longer of much interest. Thus, the Labour Code sets out the length of employers' leave in such a way that the basic amount of leave is five weeks for employers who do not engage in business activities. This is the employer referred to in Section 109 (1) of the EEA Agreement. 3 Labour Code. Eight weeks thereafter for teaching staff and academic staff of universities and at least four weeks for other employees, i.e. mostly in the public sphere. In the first two cases it is a mandatory holiday notice, in the case of other categories the length of leave may be extended to employees by an individual collective agreement or by the employer's internal regulation. For employees of other employers, leave may be extended without any restrictions, i.e. conditions may be agreed for the extension of leave. The current legislation, and this is essential, thus creates inequality of workers in terms of holiday rights, when other employees are guaranteed entitlement to leave only four weeks and the extension of leave is potentially left to the will of the employer or special legislation. [[Members are still noisy.]] The aim of the proposal is from this point of view that the current legislation that damages from our perspective the employer (?) for employers engaged in business and non-business activities as compared to employees with employers referred to in § 109 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v)) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)))))))))))) (v))))))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) 3 The Labour Code was unified and the length of leave for these employees was not only one week shorter, but unified for the same period, i.e. the expected difference in entitlement to leave would be deleted if the basic holiday period was fixed for at least five weeks. At the same time, the possibility of extending the leave by the employer in the form of an individual and collective agreement or, where appropriate, an internal regulation is maintained. We think that, at the moment, when there is often talk about the need to shorten working time, when it is said whether employers, especially in the private sector, should provide various benefits in the form of sick days, days off, paid or unpaid, whether it is equally real, where a number of companies, thanks to collective bargaining in most cases, accede to an agreement with trade unions and negotiate a five-week vacation, would not be appropriate to take advantage of this situation and, given that almost 80 per cent of employees in the Czech Republic are covered by different forms and possibilities over a period of longer than four-week vacation, to unite this legislation also in the Labour Code. Perhaps the survey, which was once done in terms of employees, would also serve this decision when 62.8 percent of employees identified four weeks of vacation as short, insufficient, little time, and only about 10 employees also said that even a five-week vacation is not optimally long for them. Only 2,6 percent of the employees considered the holiday sufficient or expressed themselves in the sense that they did not care from this point of view. I would still like to argue here or say that in the countries of the European Union to which we often go and take them as an example, the period of calendar leave for employees is adjusted differently and that this issue is left to the competence of the national states. In Belgium it is 20 or 24 days and it is different according to the days of the week of work and also according to the paid public holidays. In Bulgaria, this period is 20 days. In Denmark this period is 25 days, in Estonia this period is even 28 days, we understand working days without days that are marked for holiday days or working days. In Finland it is 25 to 38 days and it is also distinguished from the days of holidays and other paid rights for days off, in France it is 25 days, in Croatia 20 days, in Malta 24 days, in Germany 24 days, in the Netherlands 20 days, however, if five working weeks are worked, in Poland 20 to 26 days, in Portugal 22 days, in Austria 25 to 30 days, in Romania 20 days, in Greece 20 to 24 days, in Slovakia 20 to 25 days and again depends on the age of the worker. So there is this reminiscence that we have known historically in the past and have been known by many Member States of the European Union. In Slovenia it is 20 days, in Spain 22 days, in Sweden 25 days, in the UK 28 days. I would therefore like to say that the shortening of working time, which many companies are considering in terms of the classic eight-hour working day that was introduced a hundred years ago, is now opening up the question of whether, in terms of the real coverage of a number of employees over a four-week period, it is precisely the space for a five-week work vacation to be legalized and to allow workers (?), if they want to provide employees with even more benefits, as many companies do, how often we hear. I want to say that the history of the calendar holiday has now been over for about 110 years, which is measured by the fact that 110 years have employees in the private private sector known by law. It happened in 1910. Before that, vacations in different lengths were granted only to civil servants in state services, even after certain years they had to work. Thus, it is a historical development that, from our point of view, has reached a stage where a calendar holiday should now be legalized with regard to practice in a large part of the Member States of the European Union over a period of five calendar weeks. So much for me. This would also solve the problem discussed in part by shortening working hours from 40 to 37.5 hours a week. Thank you for your attention and I believe that you will release this bill until further reading in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u7	I thank you and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Petr Beitl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u8	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you my intelligence report. In many arguments I will probably repeat myself, but the repetition is a mother of wisdom and I think that some basic data will not harm to hear twice. So let me introduce you to the beginning how the holiday period is dealt with by an internationally valid regulation within the European Union and what the existing legislation is like within the Czech Republic. According to international legislation, the length of paid leave is regulated by the International Labour Organisation Convention No 132 on paid leave of 1970. This Convention lays down the basic principles governing the adjustment of paid leave. The minimum length of paid leave is three weeks per year. The minimum period of work necessary for entitlement to leave may be fixed. The person taking leave shall be entitled to his normal or average wage. The division of leave into parts is possible and the entitlement to leave cannot be waived. [[16.10 hours]] The adaptation at EU level shall contain the following information: The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states in Article 31 that each worker has the right to maximum working time, daily and weekly rest and annual paid leave. In the field of regulation of working time and holidays, i.e. working conditions, Member States shall share the competence of the EU within the meaning of Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The specific arrangements for paid leave are laid down in Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of the organisation of working time. Article 7 of the Directive provides that Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that each worker is entitled to paid leave for a calendar year of at least four weeks in accordance with the conditions for obtaining and granting such leave laid down by national law or practice. Furthermore, the minimum period of paid leave per calendar year may not be replaced by a financial compensation except in cases of termination of employment. Adjustment of length and payment of leave in EU Member States. The directive provides for a minimum period of paid leave, but allows Member States to set a longer minimum period of paid leave and, where appropriate, to allow employers to grant longer periods of paid leave on the basis of collective and individual employee agreements. I can list countries with vacations longer than twenty days: 22 days has Portugal, 24 days Belgium and Germany, 25 days Denmark, France, Luxembourg, Sweden, 28 days Estonia and the United Kingdom, 30 days Spain, Austria and Finland. Hungary increases the number of days of leave depending on the number of years worked. For workers over 25 years of age, the basic holiday period of 20 days is increased by one day, over 28 years by two days, over 31 years by three days, for workers under 45 years by another day for every two years and for workers over 45 years by 10 working days. In our country, the current situation is that only some companies provide five weeks of vacation. Some employees are entitled to higher holiday rates by law. For eight weeks, the teachers and academic staff of higher education institutions have five weeks of those whose remuneration is dependent on the state budget, namely, are defined in Section 109 para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Now let me give you a few opinions on this issue from the competent authorities and organisations. The first is the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Ministry of Industry and Trade expresses a disagreeable opinion on the above-mentioned material, especially for the following reasons: Any new legislation and legislation on the issue of entitlement length of leave should be preceded by a professional discussion and any draft law should then be implemented on the basis of a deeper economic analysis. At present, employers, in addition to voluntary extension of working leave, can benefit from a number of tax advantages, such as education, catering, leisure benefits, overhead tickets, donations up to CZK 2,000 a year, temporary accommodation up to CZK 3,500 a month, pension or life insurance up to CZK 50,000 a year, allowance on business trips, compensation on admission, repair for wear of own tools, using the home office, personal protective equipment, including a contribution to their maintenance. The introduction of this institute is recommended to maintain collective bargaining and contractual relations. Recently, the business environment has been exposed to a number of upcoming changes with many negative impacts and regulations, such as raising a minimum wage, abolishing the period of quarantine, increasing the administrative burden on employers in connection with executions, missing the necessary professions in the labour market, lack of human resources; at present, it is sometimes solved by employing the employees who are subject to execution, who are in execution, or who are auditioned for them. The next opinion is the opinion of the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions of the Czech Republic. Following this proposal, we consider this primarily non-systemic, when there was currently a commentary procedure on the Government's draft amendment to the Labour Code. Therefore, we do not recommend supporting sub-proposals outside the government proposal. Members may apply their proposals when discussing government amendments. We believe that entrepreneurs should be left with the possibility of extending their leave to collective agreements, taking into account the possibility of providing benefits to employees through sick days. At the same time, we note that the implementation of the proposed proposal would make the long-term problem of agriculture - the taking of vacations completely unnecessary, very much worse. Even under current legislation, four weeks of legal leave, entrepreneurs in agriculture face the problem of taking legal leave every year. The reason is not only the nature of agricultural production, its seasonality, but above all the lack of interest and the unwillingness of employees themselves to spend their legal leave. As mentioned above, we consider that a much more appropriate practice for both sides of the employment relationship is more acceptable to the existing legal standard, which has a longer period of leave with the exception of the provisions of § 109 para. 3 The Labour Code and teaching staff and academic staff of universities allow. In the Department of Agriculture, this option is used in the long term and annually by giving higher-level collective agreements to subjects for whom it is binding the option of selection - either a five-week vacation or a four-week holiday, together with a fixed financial bonus. Yet, even with this adjustment, the problem above persists, it is not taking leave. This fact then leads a number of business entities to circumvent the law. In our opinion, the issue of the length of leave is one of many areas where it would be desirable and beneficial to use the collective bargaining institute and collective agreements in a much higher extent as such, corporate and higher degree. In the above sense, therefore, it cannot be agreed with the argument in the explanatory memorandum that the proposed adjustment does not entail any negative effects. In conclusion, the proposed legislation in the form of an extension of legal leave will only multiply cases of circumvention, with no improvement for employees in this matter. On the contrary, their consequences will make the situation worse for them. This conclusion applies fully to the agricultural sector. However, we believe that the negative effects will be wider. Finally, allow for a third opinion, namely the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce resolutely rejects the proposal to amend the Labour Code, the substance of which is to increase the entitlement to leave from the current four to five weeks. The explanatory memorandum to the proposal states that the aim is to abolish the inequality of workers in respect of the right to leave, since the employees whose employer is defined in § 109 are the State, the local government unit, the State Fund, the school legal entity established by the Ministry of Education and Sports or the local authority in total or voluntary association of municipalities, the contribution organisation and the regional cohesion board, thus all of them are entitled to five weeks' leave. This reason cannot reasonably be accepted for several reasons. For one thing, it should be noted that labour law is part of civil law, and even if the contractual freedom of the parties is limited by the adoption of the principle of protection of the weaker Contracting Party, i.e. staff members shall be required to include institutes and instruments which give both parties the opportunity to make certain choices. The length of leave of such an institute is to a certain extent. [[16.20 hours]] It is good that there are differences between the claims of employees whose employers are those listed in Section 109, de facto state, or if you want the public sector as well as the difference in their remuneration should be maintained. It should be noted that there will be a significant increase in employers' costs at the moment when five weeks of leave are legally entitled. Already in 2017, when the same proposal was tabled in the form of an amendment to the then Chamber of Deputies to the present draft amendment to the Labour Code, the analysts of the Chamber of Commerce made an estimate of the costs for employers and calculated them at 28 billion. crowns a year. Thus, in 2017 - 28 billion. CZK per year the burden on the employer sector. Given that there has been an increase in wages since March 2017, this amount can be expected to be higher. Employers need tools that they can use for these purposes, depending on their economic results, to obtain and maintain employees. At the moment, when workers are absent from the labour market, this need is even more recent. These tools include employee benefits such as sick days, holidays beyond law or study leave. At the moment when the state makes these benefits claims for all employees, it limits the competition of employers in the labour market and in a way damages itself, the competitiveness of its supply on the labour market. Cumulation of the increase in staff costs currently taking place, i.e. e.g. abolishing the period of quarantine or increasing the minimum wage, increasing the cost of work, limiting competition in the labour market and, overall, creating excessive pressure on freedom of business. In addition, it will have adverse effects on employers in the non-profit non-state sector, including those who employ people with changed skills. For all the reasons set out here, The Chamber of Commerce fundamentally disagrees with the Members proposed by the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, so much my news report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u9	Thank you, too. I am opening the debate, and before I invite the speaker, I will introduce you to the apologies. Mr Pavel Staněk apologizes to us between 16.15 and 19.00 for working reasons, and Mr Jelínek apologizes to us from 17.45 until the end of the day for working reasons. Now, please, with priority for the debate, Mrs Maláčová. Minister, I'm sorry. Madam Secretary Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention that social democracy supports this proposal for the introduction of five weeks' leave. We support this step over the long term. You know, it was one of our topics that we raised in the election campaign to the communal last year. And the thesis is simple, why do we do it? You know that most employers have been on vacation for five weeks now, and this is how it works in much of the European countries around us. And I think it would be good to level these working conditions so that all Czech employees have five weeks of leave. It is also found that if people have more time to rest and more free time, so increasing productivity work. And I think it's very important for employers that people are rested and can work much better. For this reason, social democracy proposes precisely the introduction of five weeks of leave, but also the reduction of working hours by 30 minutes a day. Another reason why we propose or support five weeks of vacation is because we are preparing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u11	I understand. I ask my colleagues in the hall for peace so that we can hear the Minister's speech in a dignified enough atmosphere. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u12	Thank you. Because you know that now the transition process is already underway. Industry 4.0, we are facing trends that are linked to digitization, with robotics, and this will mean a great loss of jobs. The whole labour market map will be redrawed. I think that this will also result in a need for less labour, and therefore shorter working hours will be one of the measures that will prevent this trend. Another argument - and then I will be done with the listing - is that you probably know that in the Czech Republic we work 400 hours more than the Němec a year and 300 hours more than the Francouz. According to the OECD, we are a nation or countries where people work almost the most, it is on average 776 (?) hours a year. So these are the four main reasons why social democracy, as well as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, supports this proposal to introduce five weeks of leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u13	Thank you, too. And now Mr Beitl has entered into my general debate, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I certainly don't want to repeat the arguments I made here. I would just like to say that I am joining the positions of the Chamber of Commerce, the arguments I have mentioned here, that the cumulation of both labour costs and the rights of entrepreneurs and employers has been too much lately, and I consider this step, the mandatory increase in leave, to be one of these negative steps. I also believe that the current legal situation, the current legal standards have enough tools for every employer in the labour market to determine the benefits that he wants to obtain from his employees himself, and I consider an increase of one week to be one of these benefits. I would also like to say that instead of making the labour code more rigid, we should rather strive for its flexibility. I consider the approval of a similar proposal to be a step in the completely opposite direction. For all these reasons, I propose that this draft amendment be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u15	Thank you. I'm registering your motion to dismiss. Now, please, with Mr Bláha's factual remark, then she is signed up for the debate by Mrs Aulická. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate every proposal that comes in order to help people who work, because, of course, without people who work and do their jobs every day, we could not sit here and make decisions about them. But let's remember one basic thing. Nowadays, when we have a shortage of labour, where you look, at ministries, in offices, in workers' professions, in shops, in productions, just everywhere, we're suggesting that we deepen this hole even further. I'll translate it into economic numbers. That means, in my firm's case, it means accepting five new people. I have 200 employees, i.e. to accept five new people to cover the fallout, one week, for every employee. In my firm's case, that's 2.5 to 3 million. Today, when the price of energy increased by 30 percent, when interest on borrowed money increased by 200 to 300 percent, when our employees' wages increased by 20 percent, and they're still going to rise because it's not final, we're actually going to put another nail in the coffin of our economy instead of moving forward, let the employers decide if they can afford it. There are more than 500,000 small and medium-sized firms in our republic, but the small ones that employ nine employees are 500,000, and they won't be able to afford it at all. So we're de facto saying, quit, because you're never gonna be able to do it! So you need to realize all the things that are related to each other, how they move on, and how they behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u17	I also thank you, and now Mrs Aulická, then I have Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to join in supporting our proposal, because I believe, despite the other arguments that the unification of the situation, when really not all employees have a legislative right to five weeks' leave, is really important at the moment. Regardless of the fact that it was said here that employers are using the overstatement for at least one week as a basic and greatest benefit, and thus, of course, attract their employees as well. Anyway, yes, it is true, it is used by over 70 percent of our employers according to the statistics or information I have obtained from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but it is from the very fundamental things that we really think it is important to anchor legislatively. Because we are talking about the parts where employees are being sent to rest, of course, in accordance with the employer's permission, because it has not been said here - the employee cannot voluntarily choose a vacation, it must always be allowed by the employer. And I think that the rest, as well as what was said here by Minister Maláčová, in connection with the fact that the Czech Republic has about 400 hours, is a longer annual work fund than compared to Germany and other countries close to us. We also have a much smaller number of holidays. So it is really important not only to try to get our employees to work for us what we want them to do important work, but then, of course, to guarantee them that they will be entitled not only on the basis of some benefit, but to really be entitled to the legislation that they will be entitled to rest to some extent, even for the reasons that we have said here. I would just like to say that sick days is very much used, it is also used in the state administration. But we all know that from practice, you can't even unite sick days together. This means that these options are chosen for completely different purposes than the holiday for which they are chosen. I mean, not for rest, but for dealing with other family things and other things that they need to deal with in one day. And I really think, and I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this proposal and let the committees in for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u19	I also thank you and now Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Pirates Club does not support this proposal by the KSČM for a simple reason. The design increases the pressure on the svarcsystem in a forceful way. Today we have a big problem that there is a huge difference between taxing employees and businessmen. We think it's right that businessmen pay smaller taxes because they don't have a whole range of benefits, they have much more responsibility. We want to take the path of reducing employees' taxation, which we have also put forward in the House, we will see how the coalition stands. However, there is already such a big difference between employees and self-employed persons that the svarcsystem is just growing and growing. An extreme example is the Chamber of Deputies, where the quarcsystem is mandatory. But another measure that will increase the pressure on the quarc system, in our opinion, is not reasonable at all. Once again, normal tribal employees will be pushed out by agency workers who, although from their work, are typically imported into business and rented to various employers, so there are costs raised by the agency's renting them. But through the tax advantage and through the fact that they're not under the Labour Code, it pays to employ them, virtually. bill them. And this measure will raise this pressure again. That's the first problem. The second problem is that while big companies are typically giving this vacation longer today, we are glad that most employees already have five weeks of vacations today, the very smallest ones for which it is the most demanding and they are struggling to keep it on the market, so now it's just not fair that they have to raise their costs, because KSČM here made it up when their preferences fall. I believe that the company will come to the conclusion that five weeks of vacation will no longer be what the employees of the company are attracted to, but that it will be the standard. But let's let it come to this naturally, and gradually these people are growing. And instead of ordering it across the board right now, and especially at the moment of significant economic deterioration approaching, this attack on companies is now pretty negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u21	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Skopeček, then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u22	I agree. Every time I agree with the pirát, I get off. In this case, I exceptionally agree. I really think we should leave this to an agreement between a particular firm and a specific employer, because we will certainly find companies in the Czech Republic that are successful, have a lot of contracts, earn, have a lot of profits, they may even afford a week's vacation. But on the other hand, along with slowing economic growth, we will have companies where the economic situation will be much worse, and we are sending them into a far worse situation with this idea and it can complicate their lives. So let's really leave it at the market. We already have a very regulated labor code today. You can't tailor it to all companies as well. It's just that some of the companies are doing well right now, some of them aren't. If we want to force companies to offer the same conditions, we're undermining our competitiveness. Already today a number of companies as a benefit the fifth week of vacation offers. Let's leave it to the companies, let's look for ways to motivate them to offer more these weeks, but let's not make it another regulation of the already over-regulated labor code. As far as the Labour Code is concerned, we would need the exact opposite of what the Communists come up with, that is, its dislodgement so that all companies can be found in it depending on whether they're doing well or not, whether they're big, small, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u23	I, too, thank you, and now, please, Mr Grospič, who is in the debate from the point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would first like to respond by your means to Mr Ferjenčík, because he likes to be very funny when he says that someone comes up with something when his preferences fall. I mean, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia doesn't come up with this for the first time, it doesn't come up with it for any political reason. It comes up with this because it is very sensitive to the situation between workers and the views of individual trade unions and unions. We also see very well how individual trade unions and unions, as well as Member States and governments of the European Union, approach the issue of leave. Perhaps it would be good by your means, Mr President, to tell him that workers, workers somewhere in the 18th century, fought very hard to have at least holiday days off church holidays. And that is why I did not happen to mention here at all that year in 1910, when in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy the right to leave for recovery in the non-public non-state sector was enacted, and it was significantly regulated in the public public sector, because until then people had no right to almost any holiday for recovery. [[16.40 hours]] So nothing is a natural development, and everything costs some effort, and it is also a matter of how some political parties, or even unions, are taken and fought for. Perhaps not by chance some countries of the European Union have also been quoted here, such as Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, Austria, Portugal have a legally long period of legal leave for recovery and do not leave it to benefit issues. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] I am not angry with the opinions that are being expressed here from the right and from you, from the pirát, because I understand that it is the primary for you to defend employers' unions, and you will not be angry on the left, because for them is the primary to defend employees and to find a certain balance in making the economy work, but also that employees have their rightful, legal share in the fact that they can regenerate their forces, pump them up, and rejoin the working process, and also have time and health for their multilateral development and care for their families and children. Try to stand on the line to Mladá Boleslav Škodovka, which is a flagship of the Czech economy. Try to stand there and find out how many years a person can work there, constantly accelerating the pace and course of the line, despite the fact that there is a strong union organization working there, that there works to a certain extent Baťův's system of various benefits including health rehabilitation, and you will find that after 40 years there is the exception that he must look for a job elsewhere, be transferred to another workplace, because it simply is not enough. And try to go back to smaller companies, not really small family, that's probably something else, like small business chains, where there's absolutely no code of work at all, and it's not saying to employees what their schedule is, at least two weeks in advance. While there is a legal right that an employer must allow a calendar holiday of at least 14 days to be taken, it is very often violated because it is simply desirable for a continuous process, a minimum number of employees, because employees increase wages, reduce the level of profit and are an unnecessary item, but they are necessary for the operation of those companies. I think that the countries that I have appointed have not gone through any history of the way of building a company other than capitalist, and yet under pressure from the employees, the trade unions have come to the conclusion that they have been able to legalise longer vacations for their employees, because they have understood that this is a certain know-how and an advantage to how to save even health costs, how to allow them to better return to the work process, and that it will return to them in the long term. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will and will always defend employees and defend modern slavery. If any political parties, maybe the Pirates Party wants to introduce it secretly, let it! The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia wants nothing to do with this! We are here to present a reasonable, unpopular proposal, which has been discussed for many years between trade unions and employers' associations, which has been discussed for a long time at the International Labour Organisation, which has been discussed at international level and in the European Union, where it is said that the three-week period should not be extended to four weeks or even five weeks, and it is also discussed for six weeks, and since the situation in the Czech Republic is what my previous speakers have described here that a number of large companies in collective agreements negotiate longer than four-week basic vacation periods for recovery, so we think it is good to legalize it, because the employees in the public administration already have this law. In fact, if employers do not treat trade unions in a number of cases so that whoever joins trade unions primarily wants to get rid of him and kick him out of employment and trade unions, then you could say well, let's leave it to collective bargaining, higher collective agreements, and everything will be okay, because it will be treated with a different regulation, a regulation of equal legal force and an enforceable judgment. But the reality in the Czech Republic from the point of view of the trade union organization is ruthlessly different! That is why we also need this proposal from the Communist Members that it is time, following the model of other countries in the European Union, to align our law, our legal order, the protection of our employees, and to establish a calendar period of leave for five weeks. [[Huge noise in the hall!]] If employers want to provide additional benefits in the form of sick days or other days off -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u25	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you because there's noise in the House! I'll ask your colleagues for more peace so you can proceed. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u26	Thank you. - and subtract them from taxes, and thus reduce their costs even beyond the five weeks, they can. I ask you to have a reasonable approach to these matters without the various attributes and axioms and to release this bill into the first reading, so that we can discuss it with the revised amendment to the Labour Code, which is to be annexed to the Chamber of Deputies, but I say in advance that we have great reservations about it as well as trade unions, because liberalisation and the liberalisation of the labour market and labour law are not in favour of employees and will turn to employers in a time of economic crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u27	Thank you. President Stanjura has volunteered, but before I give him my word, there are factual points. First President Kováčik, then Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Bláha. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as I listen to this debate, it's escalating here, it's escalating the struggle. Some would like the rigidity of the labor code to be zero, preferably so that there is no labor code and those relationships left absolutely for the day off. I think that's unacceptable. I'm sure it's unacceptable for us. And the discussion is about some kind of heatedness, some sort of dispute about, say, the concept of protecting workers' rights at all, or the relationship of an employee - an employer. We're going back a lot of decades. I'm going to ask for a 15-hour recess at the KSČM club meeting. Maybe we can find a way out. At the same time I call the club KSČM there in the corner by the window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u29	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna ask if it's straight or... [[Now.]] Now. Okay, in that case, I'm declaring a 15-minute break for the KSČM club's meeting until 17.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 5:05 p.m., the time spent on the break of the KSČM MEP's club has ended. We will continue our negotiations. We are in a general debate. With a factual remark, Mr Bláha is registered, but we do not have any member of the government, so I would ask from this place if somewhere in the front room the members of the government hear that one of them should appear so that we can continue the negotiations. [[Minister Benešová enters the meeting room.]] Madam Secretary Benešová is here now, we can continue. Mr Bláha will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to give a damn about the debate. I don't want to sharpen the blade at all, but I have to lean hard on the words that have been said here. Believe it or not, most entrepreneurs value their people very much. He realizes what good people are for every entrepreneur, and he tries to find a way to give them as many benefits as possible. But if we were to talk about who's the biggest exploiter here, it's definitely a state, because it doesn't do anything through the employment of people in health care, or the police - it doesn't do anything. During working hours, you could ask all nurses, doctors and others who do not keep the most working hours and leave between work etc. If anyone breaks the law, it's a state. I just want to say that if we want to make this trip and find out what we can do to help people, let's talk about work on Sunday and save the workforce that we can use elsewhere. That means, let's cancel work on Sundays, just like in all the developed countries around us, where we're going. Let's cancel our holiday work, and we'll have more people to work on a normal day, and maybe we can start talking about five weeks being acceptable to every businessman. Try going to a store tonight. If anyone gets the most out of it, it's people in stores and fresh food production. They work 365 days a year, and a colleague has to take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u32	Ambassador, time's up. I'm sorry. Thank you. Mr Adamec will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u33	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I cannot do this. It's not gonna work for me. When I listen to my fellow Member Bláha, I feel that it is, as I said last time - there is a new time! A government member of a party who has been in government for seven years says that the state is cheating does not respect the law. [[Strongly.]] Mr President, is this normal, what you are saying here? Or am I somewhere other than the Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u34	Thank you. Mr Bláha will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u35	Colleagues, colleagues, I have to respond because there's no way to react to that. I've been here two years. [[In an elevated voice.]] But you know the whole time you've been here in the Chamber of Deputies. Nobody's gonna say it, nobody's gonna say it, and you're all gonna keep quiet about it, and you're gonna get over it! So I think it's a lot worse than putting things in their real name. Because if I name them, that's the first point I can do to figure things out. If I miss something, go around or don't want to see it, of course I'll never solve it. Let's face the truth about how our health care works, how people have to work extra and how it really is, and then we can deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u36	Thank you. Mr Adamec's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u37	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I am sorry, I have miscalculated, there is some strange pressure today. So it has been five years, my colleague, through Mr President. And it doesn't matter if you've been here for two years, but you're a member of a five-year government movement, which is why I've said it here, and five years from now, there's a lot of work to be done, and not here after five years to come up with this kind of criticism of your government ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u38	Thank you. The factual remarks made by Mr Svoboda and Mr Bláha will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u39	Thank you for the floor. I was provoked by Mr. Bláha to speak. We have already dealt with this issue of health care work many times, and we have come to the most beautiful thing that we will order the concept only in May, so ten months from that May will be the dates of childbirth. The month will be born and will work very intensively in hospitals, including Sundays and holidays, and if we deliver it all, they will be so-called natives, which means we'll take the wagons to the street, take the babies, show them all, and it'll be three days of fame in Budějovice, or they can be natives in Liberec. And that will solve the issue of health care work. [[17.10 hours]] If you don't make the sick sick sick just sick at work, so that the births are only during the day, never at night - and they're making babies at night, that's why they're born at night, they just want to be there, they don't want to be there 365 days, they want to be there 366. If you don't do this, don't come here to talk about work in health care!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u40	Thank you. Mr Bláha and his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u41	It's nice how you talk, it's nice how you clap, but you've still forgotten one important thing, and that's that people are missing at work. That's why the health service can't have the day off that it might have. If we had enough staff, no one would have to serve so many hours, because it's logical. If there's more work, well, if there's more people at work, I'll take time off when the job isn't. And definitely, definitely, if we can set up the condition, how it could work, then we'll figure out the model. The store works the same way. Do you think in one day the same number of customers will come for bread? He's not coming! So sometimes the baker has to bake more, sometimes less. And that's how it works normally, normally in the business of fresh food, just like in health care. We work 365 days a year just like that, and it's all about setting up a sufficient number of jobs per job. And I'm sorry that the people who work in the health sector talk that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u42	President Kováčik, with a point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madame and gentlemen, I firmly believe that my colleague Bláha means well, but I would like to hear a closer explanation after all. He said, it sounded serious, let's ban Sunday work, ban holiday work. As a farmer, I can hardly imagine who will serve on a holiday or Sunday when work is banned, who will carry the milk, who will process it on a holiday or Sunday, so that we can have it processed on the counters by Monday at the latest, after all, who will produce the cream and the butter and supply the bakers and the pies to keep it fresh. So, in my opinion, this kind of discussion here is a little bit on the edge. Let me just remind you that the KSČM proposes what is already common practice in many companies, so that the same conditions for all companies and all employees, that means basic terms, rates, or, as you would like to say, five weeks leave. It's nothing revolutionary, it's nothing groundbreaking. We can have these discussions here at second or third readings, as we've been used to in recent years. But at this point, I think it's too soon for us to end the subject or somehow kill it. I'm just saying that it just has a lot of different conventions and that we're dealing with this one section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u44	Mr Bláha's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u45	I think we've been talking about work on Sundays and holidays for a really long time, so you know what I'm talking about. I'm worried about the useless businesses that may not be open that may not be going to sell, and there are a lot of people who just work and they wouldn't have to. Of course, then there are operations where it needs to be secured. I just want to draw attention to one thing again. Remember, if we need five labor force for 200 employees at the moment we extend our vacation, then at least 20 thousand people who work in health care, do the math, they're simple numbers, so that's an incredible army of people we're going to need for health care, because for those people who take a vacation, someone has to do the job. Or are we really planning on giving birth? We say yes, now we're choosing the fifth week of vacation, so no one's gonna be here? Or will those doctors, but others, serve more than that? So let's talk about this. I think that before we make any amendment to the law, change the law, we should discuss it first at some clubs, round tables, and then we can move on and focus on the time we live. I named it here. Today's times are really, really hard. So think about it, and I think we can work out how we can move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u46	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u47	I have such a recommendation for Mr Bláha, an honourable colleague, that it might be nice if he had ever joined the debate normally with his discussion contribution and did not have four factual comments within ten minutes. Sounds like a little abuse to me from the institute. However, I want to get back to the matter and to what the representatives of the petitioners said. Let's approach this wisely. I'm in. The only reasonable approach is to reject it in the first reading and not play with it. The petitioners are contradicting each other. On the one hand, they argue that our people work too much annually in hours or monthly in hours, and at the same time suggest extending their vacation. What does that mean for the companies? The workers' failure will have to replace those who do not have a vacation and will not draw it. That means what's gonna happen? They will increase the number of hours that will be at work, or, this is the second option, the communists are calling for a reduction in the performance of the Czech economy. That's the second option. I would recommend to all the submitters that they go somewhere - I know it's difficult for them, because it's not exactly a friendly environment for them - to ask small companies how it works, what it does in small companies. Yeah, well, they've got a lot of benefits in the biggest companies these days, and they'll deal with it, but it's a lot more complicated in the small companies. At the same time, the State imposes absurdly short time limits on the fulfilment of the obligations of companies towards the State. My favorite inspection report and five working days until you have to respond in case there is an administrative error in the inspection report. What does that mean for a small firm where there's one accountant or one accountant? There is no chance for these accountants to get leave between the 25th of each month and the second or third of the following month, because it is expected if there is no notice from the tax office that there is a slight error in the inspection report. At the same time, the same accountants or the same accountants don't get a chance to get a vacation between the first and the tenth, because very often the same ones process wages. This means, theoretically, space for duty, for these people to be reduced to somewhere between eleventh and twenty-fiveth. But that's not true, because on the 25th, VAT is being filed for inspection reports. [[17.20 hours]] So in those small companies, it's the most complicated thing to do with the state due to these short, regular, recurring deadlines. And here's a proposal that's going to make these companies extremely difficult, and they say it's in favour of the employees. That's not true. Small companies are the basis of the Czech economy. They are those who are not looking for tax breaks and investment incentives in the surrounding countries. They are those who do not go to other states, who provide for the basic services that our citizens need in particular. We already perceive the devastating impact of the EET on services, especially in the countryside. Sure, there's no problem in big cities, but it's in the country. The proposal does not deserve us to continue discussing it. And all those who believe we won't approve at third reading, so I'm telling you, don't believe it. Today is the time to reject the proposal. But if this proposal does not happen - and my colleagues, especially the left, are very happy to talk about social dialogue, as needs to be agreed by the social partners, nothing against it, I do not question it or ironize it - I will give a procedural proposal to interrupt - and I will ask that we not vote on it immediately, but, perhaps, after the motion for a rejection - to interrupt the negotiation of this bill at first reading until the whole tripartite has expressed its agreement on this proposal. All social partners. Because I've spoken to employers' representatives, and they're strongly against it. They're strongly against it. So either social dialogue always pays or never. It can't be ever. When the Chamber of Commerce was for the EET, in particular, government MPs used this argument very often. I agree that some of the government's Members are saying that they are against this bill. It's okay. We have the same opinion. But I would expect, for example, from the government, perhaps from the Secretary of Finance, who very often... By supporting the Chamber of Commerce or the association led by Mr Havlíček, they argued that they encouraged the EET to say here: we are against it, because these associations are also against it. And when we have heeded their position and respected their position with the EET, we will respect and respect their position with regard to these social bills. I want to stand up for the employers. What do you think's gonna happen in those little companies? Why are you making their position so difficult? Why do you make the position difficult or want to reduce the position of businessmen who also employ and have employees? If you have five employees, six, seven, that extra vacation week will really show up. There's no easy replaceability like in big companies. That is what we should be thinking, and that is why today is the right time, and to apply the sensible approach called for by the representatives of the petitioners, to reject this proposal at first reading. Do not make the position particularly difficult for small and small entrepreneurs by further unnecessary measures. If even a small businessman, a small company considers that it can afford to give its employees five weeks for organizational, economic, other reasons, the law allows it. So let's leave it to them as a choice. Maybe as a benefit, maybe as an advantage if they attract employees from another firm. Let's not give it to them as an order. At that point, it's not a benefit. I must say, it is smiling to listen to arguments that there is an uneven approach because public servants have five weeks. Well, let's remember, colleagues, the debate about the Service Act, how it is necessary to give public servants more leave than others, because they have it harder. They don't have that kind of advantage. They're having a hard time with some business. Someone's got a business going on as if they weren't the main affair, they have to go to the proficiency exams. At the time, it was an argument for five weeks' leave. Now, there's an argument that we need to settle this, and the simple prognosis is that if we happen to get away with it, those who will represent public servants will come in to get six weeks' leave because they have it harder than those who have the five. And if they all have five, they want the advantage of six. But then the communists come and say, "Well, that's not fair. And maybe even Secretary Maláčová will come. They say they have six and they have five. That's not fair. Let's do six. Where does it end? I repeatedly say here, let's not live in the 19th century, imagining what capitalism of the 19th century looked like. Every employer, a businessman says it's best for him to have good employees. If he can do it, and I call it organizationally, but also economically, he can give them five weeks' leave. He'll give them five days of sick days, anything else. Let's not impose this on the law. That's the wrong way to go. And for the government MPs, I have a reminder. He's your coalition partner, but you don't have it in your programming statement, so I think you can show your free will and, along with us, send this nonsense to where it belongs, that means rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have noted your proposal that, after the vote to reject the proposal, if it does not pass, we should vote on the suspension until tripartite has given its consent. There will now be factual comments. Mr Grospič is first, then President Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. For example, I could argue with a number of things if I had not witnessed how the employer treated an employee, a foreign employee, in one business chain. As he dealt with him, how he basically cheated on him during the probationary period and how the whole thing had to end in court afterwards. And he tried very, very hard to smooth this thing out so it wouldn't be a scandal and he didn't lose his license and permission to employ foreign employers (?). And it was here in Prague 6. Those reasons are not about the fact that the Čech work more than the Francouz and Němec, although it is hard reality and hard truth that they do more and do more of the value they create. These are the fact that our legal order has actually introduced a great inequality between vacations for recovery since 1990. But I would ask a rhetorical question. I mean, even in a small firm, an employee in a small firm doesn't have the right to a recovery holiday, where even a union doesn't defend him, and if he dares to ask for it, the employer sometimes says to him, "Get up and go, I just don't want you here, I'll find someone else." And so are the cases. And I do not doubt that there are employers, and I believe that there is a large part of them who really appreciate their employees and want to keep them and want to offer them the certainty of their work, and long-term certainty, because they are aware that they also need to repay loans, mortgages, apartments, invest in the education of their children. But they're employers, unfortunately, others. And that's the hard reality. And the Chamber of Commerce stands at this moment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u50	I'm sorry, time's up, Mr. Ambassador. It is necessary to end with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u51	- on the side... I'm done, thank you. On the side of those who basically don't respect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u52	Chairman Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u53	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I suppose you won't be surprised if I tell you that I strongly disagree with my colleague Stanjura that the most sensible thing is to kill immediately. On the contrary, I firmly believe that this is a topic, i.e. the five weeks of vacation proposed by the Communists, is a topic that needs to be discussed perhaps longer than in the normal rule of law, that it is possible and likely to be killed immediately, but we are going to miss the chance at this time to discuss one of the things that, in terms of left-wing policy, in terms of employees' rights, but also in terms of certain satisfaction in companies and the good functioning of companies, can be, I am not saying, may be essential. [[Nesroz.]] After all, in some companies, that's how it works these days. Therefore, I would like to propose at this point a procedural proposal to suspend this item until next Wednesday until 14.30. That is, in order to create sufficient time for ministers here to express their views on this in some way. And the Prime Minister, too, so that he can comment on this and take a stand. I personally think that this time needs to be created, and I therefore ask that this proposal of mine be voted on immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u54	Understood, Mr. Chairman. To next Wednesday, 5. 6th at 14.30 we have a fixed item number 43, trade in EU allowances. Do you insist on your proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u55	Right after this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u56	Yes, that's for a fixed first point. Yes. [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Is that a procedural proposal? [[Member of Stanjura: Counterproposal.]] Counterproposal. Yes, please, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u57	Under the Rules of Procedure, I can make a counterclaim if there's a motion to interrupt. Then I will repeat my proposal, which I wanted us to vote on after the rejection. However, when President Kováčik creates room for negotiations, as he said - I understood it as a space for pressure on the ANO movement to move away, as usual - let me propose, in a procedural manner, that we interrupt it, as I said, until the consenting position of the whole tripartite, of all three social partners comes. Two social partners, respectively, means employers' representatives and employees' representatives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-004-041.u58	Yes, in the meantime, I have called in Members and Members who have not been in the O.R. We will vote first on the counter-proposal of President Stanjura to interrupt this point until tripartite, i.e. employees and employers, agrees with him. There's a motion to check out. You are now logged out, sign up now with your voting cards. We can now vote on President Stanjura's proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 22. 159 Members are registered, for 75, against 23. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on President Kováčik's procedural proposal to suspend this item until next Wednesday, the afternoon meeting, after a fixed item number 43. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's the number 23 vote. 160 Members are registered, for 114, against 38. The motion was accepted. This means that we have interrupted this item until next Wednesday. We will return to him in the afternoon after a fixed item number 43. At this point, I'm done discussing this point. Now we're going to go with point number
