ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u1	7. The draft law amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Act on Medicinal Products), as amended, and other related laws (the House Press 302/10/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments and the resolution was delivered as House press 302/11. Information on the amendments has been distributed to us in the mail. I welcome Senator Václav Hampl among us, and I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Medicines, which was at the heart and the reason for its submission the so-called anchoring. the patient's drug record, which he returned to this House with his amendment to discuss the Senate. [[Restlessness in the room.]] It is worth recalling that the Chamber of Deputies forwarded this press to the Senate, as amended by the amendments adopted, one of which was Mr Pawlas's proposal. This proposed the right to supply medicinal products for distribution instead of the current regime. market shares a new scheme based on the so-called average demand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we hear the Minister and his argument on the resolution of the Senate. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u4	Thank you, Mr President. On this amendment, I must add that this is a proposal which did not correspond in any way with the content of the government proposal, which, as I say, has primarily anchored the introduction of the so-called. Patient' s medical record. The Senate adopted an amendment from the draft amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products, the so-called The mode of average demand excluded, which I primarily agree with, because I think it was not quite a happy proposal. On the other hand, which I cannot agree with, is the second part of the Senate amendment, which has been returned to the House for discussion and contains a change in the adjustment regarding setting with the consent of the patient, to consult his drug record when leaving an opt-out system only for doctors and changing it for pharmaceuticals, and not only pharmaceuticals in pharmacies, but also for example clinical pharmacists dealing with the issue of unwanted interactions, etc. and they are really specialists in this, for these introduce opt-in mode instead of that opt-out mode as it is preserved for doctors. From this point of view, I think this is a wrong proposal, as approved by the Senate. I do not think that it is in line with the intention to really extend the pharmaceutical record as far as possible within health service providers, both doctors and pharmacists, who are specialists in the field of drug interactions, who are actually expertly educated for this, often more than doctors themselves. So in this regard, I just don't think it's happy. And although I do not agree with the proposal concerning the regulation of the distribution of drugs, and I think that the proposal was not really happy, as it was approved in the House, as well as in maintaining that primary purpose, i.e. I agree with the House version in this regard and I will support and vote in favour of the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask now that Senator Václav Hampl take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister. The adjustment proposed by the Senate has actually three parts, you might say. One is legislative technical modifications, I would probably not comment in more detail. The second concerns the de facto abolition, with one small exception, of the information obligation regime for distributors of medicinal products. And the third is, as the Minister has already mentioned, a change in the regime for pharmacists from opt-out to opt-in. As regards the proposal to delete the amendment adopted here in the House, the Senate took the view that this possibility was affected by the Authority's view of this amendment, because it considers it to be anti-competitive, I think that is a serious objection. Then we also resented the relatively difficult enforcement, especially in the absence of clarity of some terms, and at the same time we believe that the main intention of this change, namely to prevent possible exports of life-saving products, would not be fulfilled because this provision does not contain any penalty. [[18.20 hours]] As for perhaps the most sensitive part of our amendment, the Senate version, the change in access to the pharmaceutical record for pharmaceuticals and clinical pharmaceuticals, it is actually an attempt at, say, a compromise, a compromise approach to the long debate, whether the interest of patients outweighs that of health care providers having access, some automatic access to the drug record, or outweighs the patient's right to privacy and privacy protection and some prior caution in protecting privacy. These are debates that have been going on for a long time. I'm just reminding you here for the sake of completeness, and since it's been a while since you've been discussing this, of course, nothing changes to the patient's options in individual cases to change anything in their own discretion, that is, doctors' access, so allow pharmacists access to allow, prohibit and so on. The default situation is changing, how it's set if the patient doesn't go into it himself. And here we thought it was easy, but in the Senate, the opinion is that the doctor is the one who is primarily responsible for the treatment, from the point of view of the law and the patient, for the crisis. So the patient's interest here, so that the doctor actually has the best information available that exists, and only if the patient specifically doesn't want it, the doctor doesn't have the information, it seems to us that he outweighs the prior caution regarding the protection of personal data. On the other hand, with the pharmacists, short of that, they're not primarily responsible for the treatment. Of course, they have their responsibilities, and that doesn't change anything, but if they prescribe, if they change the therapy, they're really only responsible for providing something that's ineffective, as the doctor prescribed, but not for the treatment itself. So here it seems to us that the real need to double the process of controlling the drug isn't so huge from the point of view of the patient. The added value is clearly smaller, and it would, of course, also mean some costs. And once again, there's still the possibility for a particular patient to allow the pharmacist access. So here in terms of some balance of some conflicting interests, improving medical care by automatically accessing the drug record on one side and protecting personal data, preventing the protection of personal data on the other, so maybe it's a little better balanced, in our opinion, than it was in the original version. So much for explaining the debate, or a brief summary and paraphrasing of the debate that led to the adoption of the version that you are now discussing in the Senate. I, of course, will be very happy for the Senate if you support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u7	Thank you, Senator. I am asking now, before I open the debate, whether they wish to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate - first, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Adámková. He's interested in expressing himself. The rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Health Committee in our case, will now perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat this very briefly, because you know that we have discussed this issue widely and extensively, that this is a very important function of the drug record, without which the electronic recipe is actually half and would not have more or less another use, so it is certainly necessary that we give it this functionality and we can work with it. And we know very well from the previous things and also from the field that if we leave it to certain volunteers, it's like vaccination against papillomaviruses or influenza. This means that we could not use this functionality, and there would really not be the increased safety of patients that we expect from it, and more comfort. So, of course, we have here the message of our committee, which supported the version, which is the so-called House, and I hope you will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u9	Thank you. Furthermore, this proposal was addressed by the Constitutional Committee. Mrs Věra Procházková was rapporteur. Is he interested in expressing himself? He's not interested in expressing himself. And we discussed this on the petition committee, and Mrs Eva Matyášová was the rapporteur. He is also not interested in expressing himself, so I am opening up a debate. First of all, Mr Farhan, Mr Třešňák, is entered into the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the part of Senator Hampl's amendment and Senator Seitlová's amendment, when their amendment de facto reduces and makes it impossible for pharmacists to do so, in the sense that they actually have limited access to the drug record. Anyone other than a pharmacist should actually consult, advise, help patients, elderly people, how some combinations of medicines can interact. I just want to say here that more than 3,000 people are hospitalized in the Czech Republic because of interactions a year. Almost 200 people die from drug interactions. Personally, I prefer saving even a few human lives over, say, protection - in quotation marks - personal data that was mentioned there as one of the main reasons. I consider it irrelevant because the pharmacist has a duty of confidentiality as well as a doctor. The pharmacist has a security code to be logged into the system as well as other workers. The system leaves an electronic trace. I think that as far as the protection of personal data is concerned, there are just enough moments to protect these data. What else can I say? Maybe it's just that I'm happy for our grandmother, who's able to call five times a day, what medicine she's supposed to take and whether she can combine it with this or not. So if we're able to save several lives, I'm sure I prefer this to personal data and vote in favour of the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u11	Thank you. Mr Třešňák will speak in the debate. Mr. Svoboda will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u12	Good evening, Mr President, fellow Members and Members. I'm sorry, paradoxically, I have a bit of voice indisposition in the pharmaceuticals press, so hopefully I can tell. In his opening speech, the Minister actually presented or summed up the pros and cons of both the Senate and the House of Law on Medicines. I will just mention that, together with the ODS, we have already presented the general opt-in, which is for both doctors and pharmacists, but, as Mr Farhan mentioned earlier, the Senate version has returned with such an asymmetrical opt-in, an informed consent only for pharmaceuticals, and the greatest difficulty of this change is that the patient would have to visit Czech Point. Regardless of the version that will eventually pass, I would just like to mention that, in the context of simplification, I would like to see in the following amendment, which is, I suspect, the House press 581, this could be modified, in a relatively simple way that some of the things that are normally in the implementing regulation would be transferred directly to the law, for example by adding that paragraph 81e, that granting consent or opposition and any appeal in paper form would allow an attending doctor, pharmacist or clinical pharmacist. Everything I wanted to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u13	Have a good night. So now I'm going to load one or two apologies. Firstly, Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologizes from 18 o'clock to the end of the day. And then Mr Radek Koten apologizes today at 19 o'clock for work reasons. Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, you have the floor. I don't have another application yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u14	Good evening. I have spoken on this matter many times on this land, and my opinion and opinion of the ODS are still the same. The concept of opt-in and opt-out is unmistakable for us simply because we believe that the right of a citizen, of a person to decide how this information is to be handled, belongs to him. We have such a special arrangement in the Gifts Act, where we have automatic consent that each deceased agrees to withdraw his authority. It is, of course, a law that has enabled collections to be done in a very large number and is very necessary for patients who need a donated organ. I understand and understand that you want to put something like this on the drug record so that what could damage the patient is handled preventively. But the truth is, such preliminary consents that are actually unnecessary. Consider that in the United States, everyone has to have a statement on whether he wants to donate his body, and he automatically signs it when he gets a driver's license. Either he signs it or he doesn't. And because the driver's license is about 97 percent of the population in the United States, it is a law that has adapted it in a very good way, and there is never any problem with what this person has agreed to or disagreed with. If we were to get a job, we would find a solution for consent to the drug record so it wouldn't be automatic, but to be formalized in some form by the patient's consent, so at the level of the insurance company that pays for it, it could just be found. [[Huge noise and restlessness in the hall!]] Of course, as a doctor, I welcome it very much when I have the opportunity to know what the patient was taking, because it is, of course, important information for further medication. On the other hand, the contradiction with the fact that in a number of cases it may be problematic, in a number of diseases the information about medication for the patient is more than misleading, is so strong that in all of my consideration of what I know about the possibilities of the error that the doctor will make, because the problem of patients unconscious can be solved at first aid level in a way other than this automatic consent, I have decided and we have also decided to do so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u15	I'd like to ask you to calm down. I have a request here to make peace, so honourable Members, I ask you to keep your voice down so that the Member hears himself and we hear him too. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u16	And we have also decided, as the whole ODS, that we abstained from voting on this law simply because we believe that this is not a good solution to the situation. On the other hand, I dare not say it is wrong. It's not good, and it's very serious. And at this point, we're in a special situation. We have a version of the law that has passed the House and which, from our point of view, is not good, because automatic consent is simply an interference with the patient's personal rights and may have a very negative impact on the patient in some breach of the signed secret of all those working with it. We all know that nothing in our society can keep a secret at all. As soon as someone has a major interest in finding out about someone who's using, how he's sick, I'll bet a dollar against the bob that he gets that information. That's just the way it is. I don't like to talk about it because I know how this information is leaking from medical facilities, and of course we know how it leaks information about patients who are socially significant, for whatever reason, how they leak information about their disease and how they are treated. On the other hand, the proposal coming from the Senate contains exactly the same mistake. It contains the exact same mistake. And the argument that it is better and that we should vote for it, that, at least for those pharmaceuticals, it ensures that the information is not freely accessible, requires consent, is information that all its advocates support for absolutely pointless reasons. For example, one reason is that free - selling drugs also need to be confronted with what the patient is taking and that if the pharmacists did not have that option, it could be that the free - selling drug would be inconsistent with what the patient is taking. There's only one catch - a doctor's assistant gives free drugs, no one says so, and there's no way a doctor's assistant has access to a drug record. So, again, it's just a demonstration of how we try to find a solution that is fundamentally wrong in our top organs of the House and the Senate. So from my point of view, from our point of view, the Senate proposal is wrong. In addition to the fact that the variant that concerns blocking drug exports is formulated poorly and would not work completely guaranteed, it would be bordering on the constitutional principles of our state, and, on the other hand, in its own way, exports make it possible simply because it shifts it to another plane. I am saying all this because I am convinced that at this point it would be best for us if we didn't have this law, whether in one or the other option, and that we could work out whether there is any alternative to making people make patients, so that each of us has the opportunity to express ourselves about what he wants or doesn't want. I would care very much as a doctor and as a citizen, and I think we all would need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u17	Mr. Okleštěk here reports a replacement card 23. And now I have one point of fact here, and it is Mr. Jiří Mašek. I'm calling you to the show, so far it's the last application. Yes, Mr. Válek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the honourable colleague of Mr Svoboda, whose views, of course, I very much appreciate. But I would like to point out here once again that if the pharmaceutical record is to be completed and for the benefit of the patients, I would like to ask all of you to vote in favour of the House's proposal, for the opt-out system and for the pharmacists, because it is a second-checking system. I don't want to develop this place, but doctors have a lot of expertise, there's a lot of medication, and it's not possible for doctors to check all interactions eventually. And the second control system can actually save people's lives, as has been said here, to prevent unnecessary hospitalization, to save considerable material resources, and yet it has a system of insurance, because the pharmacist always leaves an electronic trail, so he knows who was looking at it and who in good faith gives the patient advice for his safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u19	I'd like to ask for your peace again. I have a request here because you can't hear it here. Some Members do not hear. So I'd like to ask you once more for peace. Mr Vlastimil Válek will now speak with a factual remark and prepare for Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Keep your voice down, that's not gonna be the bomb I'm gonna say. I'm gonna point out three things. Firstly, I wanted to thank the Minister for his comments on Mr Pawlas' amendment. I believe this is a stumbling block. I think that is a very bad amendment. I am convinced that if the law passes with this amendment, there will be many problems. And I've already got a couple of written interviews on how the market share is going to be calculated. I am very much looking forward to the written responses of the Ministry of Health, which this law will have to implement. The second point I have. So if it has been repeatedly said by the Minister that it is essential what the patient says and not what is in the electronic record, and if the patient says that what is in the electronic record does not apply and he does not take the medications, and vice versa, he takes the medications that are not there, then I'm debating whether opt-out or opt-in doesn't seem so significant, except for those patients who are unconscious. And again, whatever the law passes in any form, I'm about to have a written interview where I'm going to want an answer, so how should the pharmacist proceed, so how should the doctor do if there's any other information in the electronic record before he gets oral from the patient, and what is the clear position? I have an appointment with the Czech Medical Chamber to publish this opinion so that doctors can rely on it. And I would like to thank the Minister in advance for preparing it and for some material that will be useful and that will protect the paramedics from being otherwise informed by the patient and others in the electronic record, which must happen. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u21	Thank you. I will now request the floor of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Last application so far. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u22	It's really just a brief remark on how conflicting things we're discussing here. It was said here from our honored colleague's mouth that if the pharmacist did not have access to the record that it could complicate the situation and prolong the time for proper treatment, or, on the contrary, it could complicate the situation precisely because the pharmacist would need a different opinion from the prescriber. He prescribes it with the knowledge of what is really wrong with the patient and how the drug combinations can manifest themselves, which the pharmacist cannot at the moment know. I'm just saying this because it's not a simplification of the thing. It's a problem that's very serious. And I wouldn't want to be in the role of someone who, based on theoretical knowledge, says: I don't recommend this to you, or I recommend this to you. It's just a thing that has a whole bunch of things in it that have to be assessed. That's why I'm convinced that the automatic consent is wrong, because if it wasn't automatic and it was signed, it would all work the way it should, and it would work in all the planes as it should.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u23	Thank you. I don't have another debate application here. I'll look around the O.R. again. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Senator Václav Hampl is interested. And then the Minister. Senator, you're welcome to step out. And the minister is interested? Mr. Secretary, are you interested in getting off later? Yeah, yeah, Okay. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u24	Thank you. I would just like to briefly comment on a few of the things that have been said in the debate. As expected, the gros of the debate, or practically the entire issue of opt-in, opt-out. There are not many contradictions, or there have been many arguments in favour of the part that concerns keeping in the House version the part that concerns the export of drugs. It was said here that the pharmacist, and it is, of course, true, in a number of cases, perhaps those less serious diseases, health problems, gives patients advice, recommendations, consults things without prioring the step of a doctor's visit or consultation with a doctor, or somehow acts autonomously in this situation. I'm sure that's true. But that's still the situation where, of course, the pharmacist has a very good chance of explaining to the patient that it would be much better for him if he gave the pharmacist the opportunity to look at the drug record, and the patient could then make a qualified decision. This is what I think would be very good, especially in view of the idea that has also been raised here, or the plan, so that consent or opposition can be made in writing directly at that point. I think that's a very important aspect. Next thing. It sounds like people are dying because of drug interactions. That is also undoubtedly true. But again, I think it's important here that in a number of cases it will be because the doctors don't know what it's going to interact with. The moment the skeptical doctor gets that information, this will undoubtedly shrink the number of people dying. The role of pharmacists will really be here by now, let's just say, secondary insurance. As far as confidentiality is concerned, of course pharmacies are bound by the same confidentiality as doctors. I just want to say that it was said here that I and Jitka Seitlová were the primary authors of this modification. In fact, the order is the opposite. The complaint came mainly from Jitka Seitlová, who is a former representative of the Ombudsman. And it is based on the very specific complaints and complaints received by the Ombudsman's office. So it's nice that we have confidentiality, but in a number of cases, it just doesn't really work. And from this point of view, it is important for those patients to have a reasonable opportunity to be protected in terms of their personal information. Then there is a certain objection, which the professor of Svoboda said, that, of course, the opt-in, opt-out could be arranged in some way more quality a la America and driving licenses. I'm sure that's true, but the Senate has long been following the principle that they're trying not to construct the law somehow from the bottom again. It's not exactly that. We see our role. So it would be a matter of some more detailed preparation, more thorough on the part of the Ministry. And then there is another aspect that I would also like to highlight. The idea that the pharmacist will change medication into some serious thing where there may really be a risk of adverse risk interactions based on just a drug record and the outcome will be better than what the doctor has decided on the basis of both the drug record and the patient's knowledge, is simply very important information or essential information in terms of how the patient will be treated. So I think that's why it's more important for doctors to have that overview because they're responsible, and they're responsible for it, they have to assess the patient's overall condition, the clinical condition, the current pharmacotherapy and, on the basis of that, lead the treatment, for which they're responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u25	Now Minister Adam Vojtěch has shown interest in the final word. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, very briefly indeed. I think that the real benefit of the drug record is enormous and it is a huge shift in ensuring better quality and safety of care for patients. That's indisputable. I think any expert in this area who knows how the number of serious drug interactions is growing will confirm this. And where I see a big benefit for pharmacists, it's not just in the pharmacies, but it's also in the clinical pharmacy, which is very promisingly developing. And there are those experts who are able to use the drug record for the benefit of patients who set up the pharmacotherapy and who can actually often find cases where the patient is taking drugs that go against each other and can harm his health, not say kill him. [[18.50 hours]] So here I think the potential really is huge, and so I'm asking you to support this version. And as for the distribution of drugs, I don't think we're gonna have to apply the proposal completely, as we approve it, because we have a government amendment to the Drug Act that introduces the so-called. Ergent system. We already have the first reading of this proposal, and I think that it will introduce clear rules for the distribution of drugs in the Czech Republic, which will be transparent, will really benefit us, so I think there is no such problem if the proposal is approved in the form that was actually approved by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-003-007.u27	We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Four of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, so I'm gonna do it. However, I see that most of us are here anyway, so we wait symbolically for a moment, in case someone happens to be in the galleys, some individuals. I have an application for check-out, so I'm announcing you and please sign up with your voting cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, pursuant to House Press 302/10, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 302/11." [[Act on Medicines]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 185, 175 Members voted in favour of 20, against 107. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the adoption of this resolution require the consent of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the consent of 101 Members. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other Related Acts, as amended, in the version in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 302/10." [[Act on Medicines]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 186, 177 Members voted in favour of 121, against 9. I state that we have adopted the bill. [[Let's hear it.]] I thank Senator Václav Hampl and move on to the next press. This is about
