ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u1	155. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and other related Acts, as amended by Act No. 290/2017 Sb. House print 302/ - third reading We have interrupted this item in the debate on 19 June. The Minister is already in place at the rapporteur's table, as is Mrs Věra Adámková as rapporteur for the guarantee committee. I would remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 302/8, which was delivered on 10 May 2019, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 302/9. We will now continue the debate. On Wednesday, 19 June, the Minister of Health and then Member Jiří Mašek, Member Věra Adámková, were first registered with a factual remark. In the debate, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda was written in writing and Mr Patrik Nacher applied. That's the situation. I ask the Minister if he remembers what his factual point was. If so, please, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Indeed, a factual point, because it responds to the debate that was interrupted here on Wednesday. I think I remember something. At that time, we discussed the question of Mrs Černochová, who unfortunately is not here right now, regarding the question of paramedics, whether health care paramedics will also have access to the drug record precisely for reasons where they are going for a patient who, for example, is unconscious and the like, need to deal with what medication the patient is taking. So only the answer to this - yes, the paramedics will have this access. That means they'll be entitled to look into the drug record and use it as part of their work. Then I wanted to respond to Mr War, through Mr President, who asked whether there would also be data on paper recipes in the drug record, that is, recipes that are still on different exceptions, such as visiting services, etc., will be prescribed in paper for the future - yes, these recipes will also be in the drug record, because we expect them to be required to be digitized within the pharmacies. That means, there's really gonna be all the prescription drugs. For your information, about 6.5 million recipes are issued every month. We are really talking about 90 percent of the drugs in the Czech Republic that will be in the drug record. There won't be center medicines that have a special regime, they are issued on demand, and blue strip drugs, but that will change very soon, because we will also submit an amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u3	Thank you, Minister, for keeping the time precise. Another factual point - Mr Mašek. Mrs Adámková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my point is to the honourable colleague, Professor Válek, through the President. It was on his distribution of patients who were unconscious and who the professor said he understood why to use the drug record, and the others that the doctor could talk to in his office, and where he thought that talking and writing would take precedence. I would just like to point out here that this is the category of seniors in the number of maybe two million who have trouble remembering and tell the doctor valid data, and that this is precisely the category of people who are experiencing so-called polypragmasia, or the use of a large number of medicines, even above ten preparations at once, where there is a great likelihood of negative effects. So what I'm saying is, it's not in any way unconscious patients, it's all patients who can benefit from the drug record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u5	Thank you. I would just ask - the noise level in the room is quite high. I'm the one who let the MP finish. Madame will now speak. I'm asking for peace of mind, so we can understand what he's saying. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my factual point related to the previous appearance in that Wednesday of Dr. Richterová, who had a note there that the doctor currently determines the dosage of drugs, only the cannabis would be limited. This is absolute nonsense, please. All medicines have given doses that are binding, some for the day, some even for the dose. For many preparations, that's the case - and you all know it, like after surgery, you're getting painkillers at some point in time. It's because we have to keep the dose for die in that case, and there are many preparations, including those in the infusions, where we have to keep the dose for that dose. So there's always the limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u7	Thank you. Now a point of fact - Mr Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I am only able to respond to a colleague and a Member through the President. I'm fully aware of the retirement situation. After all, I am as close to this category as a number of colleagues and colleagues in Parliament. That's one of the few things we can't influence by voting. It's just biology, I realize that. But I was good, and I'm gonna say it again, one more thing. I understand that I can't get an answer right now, but please make it clear in the decree or something. [[9.30 hours]] Something must be a priority for the doctor to cover. In a unconscious patient, it's simple, it's a priority drug record. What's on the drug record, I take it as a fact. If there's bad information in the drug record, it should be clear that the doctor will act on this information, so it's not his fault and he can't be affected. Just what's on the drug record is a fact. But if I have a patient in there who's not unconscious and gives me information other than that in the drug record, it has to be made clear what's priority. Whether information from a patient or from a drug record or whether I have to verify where the truth is in any way. This must be made absolutely clear that the doctor should be covered, or the one who will be looking at it. In order to avoid being told in court in case of a dispute: you should have trusted a patient, eventually you should have trusted a drug record. This information must be clearly stated somewhere. That's what I was trying to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u9	Another factual point - Mrs Procházková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u10	Good morning, everyone. To my predecessor through Mr President. The situation doesn't change at all. Already at this point, a patient comes into your office, he's got a report in his hand from his doctor, and there's something in it that says otherwise than what he tells you. So the doctor has to choose at that point anyway. So the situation is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u11	Thank you. At this point, we have dealt with factual remarks, and it is Mr Svoboda's turn to apply for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I waited on the bar properly logged in the entire last discussion, where dozens of factual remarks were taking place, sometimes factual, and there were a number of things that are right, which I agree with, and a number of things that I do not agree with. And my talk will actually be free to follow up on everything that was said in the previous hearing of this law, and it is certainly very difficult. It is very difficult for me, because at the moment I stand primarily as a doctor according to the evolution of my personality, standing here as an MP, a legislator, standing here as a patient, and standing here as a normal ordinary citizen who is concerned without being a patient. And, of course, it is very difficult for me to say that one of these tasks is more fundamental. I cannot imagine arguing that I would say - I do not agree with this matter for those reasons and for those reasons as a citizen or as an MP, but as a doctor I agree with it, and therefore I would break all the other tasks that I have voluntarily taken upon myself and which I have to serve according to all my promises. It is therefore very difficult to comment on this. The huge problem we have here is that it's a typical example of - and that's not the Minister's fault, it's very trying - that's a typical example of how we deal with medical matters. When a thing comes up, we sort of sort of sort of solve it, and it's connected to a whole series of complications and other problems that we don't solve, and we push them aside. When the time is up, we'll find that what we've pushed aside is more serious than what we've approved. In this primarily territorial issue of discussion, which is here, the question is whether consent to the use of the drug record should be automatic or whether it should be linked to the decision of the person. When I put all my professions into this, as a doctor, I know absolutely clearly that any information about what the patient is taking is essential to the physician, whether it be the interaction between the medicines, whether it be the possible contraindications, whether it be the possible manifestations of the disease, which can be mutified or altered by the treatment. But as a citizen, I have a big problem with someone deciding for me that I accept something. The present world is very difficult. The number of prohibitions, commands, regulations and automatic consents is constantly increasing. On the one hand, the freedom of a person is severely restricted, on the other hand, and in that respect, health has a problem, the development of society goes to freedom. There's no bans, orders, and orders. The trend is clear. And we in medicine have to respect him to make the medicine work, just because we're going to run into this problem in every sphere. He was very simplified in the past. In the past, there was a mandatory BWR examination, which means syphilis testing. It was mandatory, and no pregnant person could resist it. When we got to the more free time, we came to the conclusion that BWR's syphilis examination was still an obligation, but HIV tests can only be done with the consent of the patient. This is an absolutely clear example of how these things evolve and that there are things that cannot be ordered. That they're against the meaning of contemporary society. Because at this point, everyone should have their destiny in their own hands, and we should only order if what they don't do or refuse to do harm to society itself. The decision that it damages his, that he makes the wrong decision in whether to be his drug record is his problem, his personal problem. [[Nesroz.]] And our problem is to convince him that it's necessary. And here I am about how the health department is going wrong and wrong. We have been talking for many years about gatekeeping in health care, that is, that each patient should have one of his practitioners, with whom his basic documentation existed, that he should go to specialists with the advice of the physician, and that he should not, that he should have the examination, the treatment, the specialist to some extent. And we haven't moved a step. It's the only solution that answers the whole question, whether or not consent is automatic or not. If the patient has a doctor, I guarantee you that the doctor will agree with him on what is right and beneficial for both sides. The consent will be practically automatic. You can look at me all you want. But I've been doing medicine for 50 years, and I know what I'm talking about. The problem is just how these things are explained. In England, when action was being prepared to prevent cervical cancer, which is actually the only prevention today, which is meaningful, because we actually know the cause of the cancer, we know the human papillomavirus that does it, so in England they spent ten years of media massage throughout society explaining why the preventive tests are so important. And only after graduating from this mental education began to work was that the prevention began to show the effects and work of the Nasielův husbands (?) showed that when people accepted it, the incidence of the disease really changed. And it happened to the first preventable cancer disease we have. [[9.40 hours]] We must proceed exactly the same way if we want to provide all doctors with the necessary information that is contained in the patient's history. And we missed the whole thing. We have been here for a technical meeting, not a lot of Members, doctors, associations of patients, the chamber is also difficult to use, so we have come to something without taking advantage of all the opportunities that we have to introduce into this matter. It is our duty if we want to have an effect and we want to put in the most modern possibilities that we have, so it is our duty to explain it to those citizens. The relationship between a doctor and a patient is not a paternalistic relationship, please that's a long time ago. I hope that even the older generations of doctors began to understand that. Our young medics in this are quite fundamentally raised and act in a completely different way than they did. The relationship between the doctor and the patient is a partnership relationship and is essentially equivalent because the doctor puts his knowledge into the relationship, and the patient puts it into it that it's him. His health, his life. And that's why it has to be. Every hit on this structure brings us back ten years. It brings us back to being the ones who paternalistically decide the way it was all those years ago when I started. And I'd tell a patient from Upper Lower that she's supposed to comment on whether or not she wants a drug record, you know what she would tell me? Whatever you say, Doctor. And she'd sign it right away if I thought so. But today, we need that consent to have an active form in it. Because then it'll be meaningful. If the patient really knows what this brings him, he will also care to give the doctor some information so that the information is correct. He'll also have to make sure that he notices what he's taking at home. And we're gonna pull out all the last things that are irrelevant to the medicine. The potential patients are eight, nine million, and we're going to start dealing with groups that are large. That means old patients, starting senium patients, we know it's a group that's going to grow. That it's already 50 percent today and that it's going to be an absolutely crucial group in the next 20 years. And we're not doing anything to take care of them. So that these objections that we have that we don't actually get, because he doesn't know, he can't, he doesn't remember, he doesn't realize that we have them resolved in our health and social system. We're not doing anything about it. We still have the majority of acute beds and long-term follow-up beds, social beds, when we project them to the number we need, they don't actually exist. If we could treat this, if we had a guarantee that every senior would have his attending physician, who would actually work like that gatekeeper into the system, the problem with the old patient not remembering or not knowing will definitely fall and it will work. The problem with people coming to a doctor who doesn't have any information is really - and I'm saying it against myself because I'm a specialist that they have direct access to specialists. I know the case of a patient who came to eight orthopedic surgeons with a shoulder ache and can't move his arm. Eight times he got shot with corticoids, and the warhead didn't tame him. And that's the problem that's here. If he went to an orthopedic surgeon based on the fact that he was sent there by his GP who knew his entire history, this thing would never have happened. I say it all because every shortcut decision just brings more and more problems. The other problem here was discussed and called by a colleague of Válek, the problem of what is legally valid. Whether it's a patient's statement or some kind of record. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that such a shortcut explanation that the drug record is winning is not true. If that happens, I guarantee you that relatives or family will sue the doctor for following some information he received in some way. At this point, I, as a Member, defend the society in which I live, defend those doctors because we put them in an unsolvable situation. A decision about what I accept as truth is certainly a decision that matters. The doctor has to do it. He always makes it at the risk of being wrong, being wrong. And he's doing it at the risk of being punished for it. But here, it's gonna increase his risk. He'll just be threatening everything, because of course we all know that the information from the drug record may not have any validity whatsoever. Just 'cause the patient's not answering. Which is absolutely standard. A colleague of the pirát here told his mom who didn't take the yellow pills because she was pushing her stomach. My mom, when she was old, she had joint pains, and of course she said to me, "I have a house full of doctors, and she won't give me anything." So we gave her the initial ketazone preparations, which was a new line back then. I came home in about a month and I said to her, "So, Mommy, is that helping you? No! It's always the same! I say, it didn't do anything to you? No! It's always the same! And I say, "Do you take it?" And she said, "No. And there's nothing you can do about it. That's just the way it is. In this situation, when a mother tells her son that she doesn't take what he wrote to her, it's a story for a laugh. If the convention of the plea is drawn from this, it will be a problem, and a big problem. And all of this comes about just because we didn't have the courage to say yes, we're going to want active consent and we're going to create conditions to get it. Conditions that will mean a simple act. A simple act in the doctor's office. We're going to create the conditions that the usher into the system will actually be one defined doctor who will be responsible for passing on the patient information. Because don't be mad at me, the information I'm getting from the attending doctor in the form of an entry, where there's a prescription, a dosage, and a reason why it was ordinated, is far more fundamental and valid to me than a record of someone picking up a prescription at the pharmacy. I don't even know who picked him up, who he gave him to, what happened to him. We'll decide here that it will be able to carry every messenger in the backpack regardless of how it's stored. These are all things that are very complex and dangerous. So, on the one hand, I'm very aware of why it's necessary, and I know I said that when I put the electronic recipe on display, if we don't have a link to the information from the electronic recipe, the electronic recipe is the same as the paper recipe. It's just the way I give the order to pharmacist Recipe, take it, give it up. And it doesn't matter whether electronically or in paper. The moment it gives us some more information, it makes sense. But we only have to get that information with the consent of the patient. I am absolutely convinced of this. Otherwise, you will surely achieve a 90 percent success that all doctors will write the recipes. That's right. [[9.50 hours]] You'll probably have a significant success in asking the doctors in that record about what the patient is taking, but I'm afraid the benefit will be very, very limited, and I'm afraid in some cases it will even be complicated. It's not enough. I don't want to go somewhere in the mail, I don't want to go to some desk. I want to talk about this with my partner, my doctor, to tell me why and how he will use it. Another thing that concerns all paramedics is the issue of paramedics. It is very easy to say that the paramedics will rely on the drug record, but of course it can get into a situation that they will be based on data that will not be true. And of course, it creates a problem that, at present, in our country - in the world more massively and in the future, practically exclusively - the paramedic who comes to that place will not be a doctor. It won't! Just because it's expensive! For what can be done there, ensure circulation, passability of the airways and maintain a vital function, need not, need not be a doctor. And he won't be a doctor! Just because it's incredibly expensive. And secondly, they won't be doctors. Being a paramedic is a very difficult profession, which is limited - even limited in age, because at some age, the ability, the physical ability, and the mental ability to be a paramedic disappears. It's the same as a gym teacher. When you're 30, you and those kids go to ski courses and diving courses and high mountains, and when you're a 50-year-old gym teacher, you can't do anything but stand by the trapeze and give help in the air. So the problem of using the paramedics is really very debatable, but most importantly, it's not the main problem that the paramedics have. It's not the main problem the patient's taking. Not at all! These are the moments when the negotiations have a completely different character. It's not if she's taking Pradaxa and her blood is diluted. It doesn't matter at the time, because the paramedic has to work so that he's responding to what's going on when he's doing some kind of treatment. It's not about that at all. And using it as an argument for having to automatically consent to the record is just fake. It's an area where he doesn't say so much. This is really crucial for those doctors who take long-term care of the patient. And once again, I get to the point that they should have a doctor for that. Of course, the problem of establishments where old people, people with dementia or people with Alzheimer's lie is great. It's great that we don't really have the doctors to take care of them. Their number for this is small. And that's what we have to deal with. We have to deal with the fact that every such facility will have a doctor who will take care of these patients, he will know something about them, but then he doesn't need, he doesn't need information from the patient, just because he's been there for a year, two years, for the rest of his life. This is a matter that the Ministry of Health should deal with and not say: we will solve it by making it compulsory for everyone. The problem is really big, and we can all say that you have it covered. Yesterday or when it was, you said as beautifully as it is at the highest level of security that it will not get anywhere. So why do we repeatedly get information that a hacker - then turns out to be 14 years old - shot through NATO protection and accessed information that is the most strictly protected? How is that possible? So why do we still have a problem that the bank suddenly tells us that the electronic billing stops because they have a signal that their system has been breached and that it is dangerous at the moment? We can't say there's anything 100% in this area. Genius hackers can do anything. And that's why we have to have the conscious consent of this person that he agrees with something that's really important to him himself, and he doesn't mind that the information can escape in some case. And it won't help if you raise your eyes. It won't. It's just that every system is breakable. Every single one of them. And protection against breaking is insanely expensive. And for that, Minister, you don't. Nothing! And it's a need to know. And not say it as an argument that we can just do it because it's unbreakable! The minister said it's so high-security that it's 90% and nothing can happen. It can. That's what you have to say, honestly say, because otherwise you don't get people to identify with it. People can handle the truth, even if it's unpleasant, but it has to be true. This is very difficult for them to catch. These are all the reasons for which I have to consider which of the functions that have been given me by my education, my personal development and political development, which of these functions is decisive. At this point, I have to say that if I reflect my position as a doctor, my position as a patient and my position as a legislator, I must say that for such a formulated record and its sharing I cannot raise my hand and I must abstain. That's the best I can do. Don't stand up to it publicly because it's so hard to stand up to something that has a huge amount of good in it, we're just doing it wrong. The other thing that's bothering me is that we in the Health Committee have been dealing very closely with these problems. We've been discussing it over and over. We've come to something with you, too, and I have a problem with the fact that what we agreed on has actually changed. In particular, I am thinking of Mr Pawlas's proposal, which we mostly approved, mostly, for which the Minister was also responsible, and now, a few days ago, when it spoke, I learned that he had changed his mind and that he was up against it because he was preparing some legislation to treat it. We have talked very carefully about this matter and considered it. We rejected Mr Pávek's proposal as a proposal, although its content is similar to that which goes beyond our understanding, but we approved Pawlasův's proposal. And now I'm learning that he doesn't agree with it. He was the number of votes for 12, if I'm not mistaken, and there was a statement from the Ministry that the Ministry was okay with that. Look, we can say yes - no. I've collected the information from these people, and I know there are those who tell me, yes, the minister said yes, but don't ask me, I won't say it. If you have a problem like that, it's a hell of a problem for a legislative assembly. [[10.00 hours]] There's a lot of things I can say. I don't think these are things that are so important to you. This law for a normal Member is certainly very marginal against tax laws and marriage laws, but I believe that this is a law that we will have to correct. And if we ever get to the point of having that possibility, it's definitely going to be the law that we're going to be dealing with, and we're going to try to put it into shape to be factual, human, and to match the evolution of people's understanding. It's just that we're still dealing with health care, like it was in 1910. And the fact that this development is going somewhere else, that it's going to go from those doctors to some technical stuff, that it's going to go somewhere else, because these people are going to start going different, we don't respect that. And one example of this is this law, where we assume that everyone agrees that they will have another obligation to go into the hands of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u13	Good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. We have a few factual points here. The first point of fact is made by the Minister of Health, then by fellow Member Brázdil, Válek, Mašek, Procházková, Kasal and then duly signed up in the debate. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u14	Thank you. I do not really want to evaluate the drug record, etc., but I will comment on this in the final speech. But only on the proposal of Mr Pawlas. We have indeed always opposed this proposal, even Mr Pawlas I think can confirm it, we have given this position before the committee of health, i.e. we have never supported Mr Pawlas' proposal for legislative reasons, factual reasons, this was also the position of Mr Policar and Mr Vrubel, or indeed not. The only thing where we have changed our mind is on the proposal of Mr Pávek. We originally agreed with him, in principle, but then we said that we would not deal with this issue in the separate amendment to the Act on Medicines. So, I said it here at the very beginning of the debate on Wednesday, we do not support Mr Pawlas' proposal or Mr Pávek's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact from the Minister. Before I give the floor to Mr Milan Brázdil, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková from 10.30 to the end of the day. Now, then, my colleague Brázdil. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u16	Thank you for your word. Allow me a brief response to the emergency pre-hospital care. We already have the drug record. And he's been here a long time. He's not sophisticated. You know, he's in the form that if the patient wants to, when he's lying on the floor, so someone who's drunk doesn't mistake him, and because he's epileptic, he writes it on a card, I'm diabetic, diabetic I.D.'s. If the lady doesn't remember her meds, even if she was conscious, she has a phone call on her mom's phone -- or maybe not her mom's, but someone in the family. And that's on the phone. Even in Europe, there is an ICE - In Case of Emergency, when it works in Europe that when you get on the phone afterwards, they find out that there is a number where your family member knows your history. It's kind of folk creativity. And it's good. I even think it can save a man's life, even if we can recognize the glucose and the epilepsy. But today it comes with a new form, i.e. more sophisticated. She'll be better, yeah, she won't be active, so it'll be passive consent, and if she doesn't want to, maybe she'll get away with it. But I'd like to say another look. You know, every piece of information that leads to you having it, you have to work with it. For doctors in pre-hospital emergency care, when someone is unconscious, they follow their line and it's lege artis, even if they can be easily mistaken. While now that he's got the information and he hasn't looked, that means he's gonna break it. He had information, he might have had it at his disposal and he didn't use it. So it's also a second look. But definitely having information about the patient is good and the pre-hospital emergency care will certainly use it, only it will be more sophisticated, it will be a little more complicated, but definitely a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u17	Thank you for keeping time. And now another factual remark from Mr Vlastimil Válek - no, he is downloading. A colleague of Jiří Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all I can do is go to my colleague, Mr docent. Svoboda through Mr President, I have written a few comments here and I will be short. I belong to the category of mentally and physically limited paramedics, and yet the data I get on the spot is important to me. For example, in a unconscious person taking some blood thinners, I suspect a stroke of the bleeding type, and I'm taking him to a complex ict center, not an internium, etc. So just the decision-making - not the job on the spot, it's the same, to secure the patient, but the direction of the patient, it means that the patient will survive, or rather he won't survive. This is just one of many examples and I do not want to be detailed here and I do not want to bother the Chamber of Deputies with medical exchanges of opinion. I'd go to the numbers. In 2017, as stated in one unnamed programme by the Minister of Health, on a television show, more than 6.5,000 hospitalizations caused by just inappropriate drug interactions and 252 deaths, proven deaths, are many more... Oh, my God, we have to do something about this! This is where the pirates asked me why we doctors didn't do anything about it before. Well, because if we were to do something, say it out loud, it's spreading the alarm. But today we have a means to limit it. And this is where it's worth starting as soon as possible. That's the reason to start with 10 million people, from which maybe 50,000 people will check out after consulting you younger and brighter, but the 10.5 million left have a chance to survive. At the same time, we will be reduced by the cost of unnecessary hospitalization, etc. etc. It's just the reasons why I'm gonna raise my hand for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u19	I thank my colleague Mašek for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Procházková's factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u20	Thank you for the floor. Well, same thing my previous speakers said. But there's one more thing I'd like to add to that. The consent to view the drug record will not prevent it from being active or passive or disagreeing with the system being breached. That's just the way it is. So it really doesn't have anything to do with each other. The situation in the ambulance today is that the patient doesn't have to tell you the truth. And then I have to decide anyway. And if there's a drug record, it's more information to me. And that's how I can make a better decision. So I'm sure that's okay. And to my foreman, doktor Svoboda. Well, I'm sorry, but you touched me a little bit. You're older than me, too, I drive an ambulance, I'll serve tonight in the Karlovy Vary Region. And I can tell you that doctors in the Karlovy Vary Region have an average age of 56 years. So I'm sure they're older doctors, experienced, and there's no other way. And physically, it doesn't matter. Because the doctor is in charge of the team, and the paramedics are doing the physical work for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Procházková. Mr David Kasal and then a colleague of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to address Mr. docent's esteemed colleague. Freedom through you. I just want to say one parallel. From your side x years ago came project IZIP, where medical information was also given. I remember very well in quotation marks when we're talking about consent, disapproval, how it went down. For every entry that was made there, the hospital received 20 cents. It was that I had an outpatiently treated person there, I hadn't had a report saved yet, so 20 penny went for one report, the lab went on its own, and that's how it worked. And now we're talking about a relatively simple thing that only talks about medication and which will help everyone involved in a significant way. You're an experienced rhetor, I respect you for that. But explaining that mommy's not gonna take the medication... Yes, he won't take them. But the minute there's an allergic reaction record, I know I can't give it to you, even if it's been given once. The system really brings a big benefit to doctors, whether they're paramedics, whether they're doctors in hospitals, whether they're outpatient doctors. And as we've been told here, anybody can get sick anywhere, we're traveling. That's the ideal of the system. Now that I don't understand it, 15 years ago, IZIP was being introduced, now you're working against the drug record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Svoboda's factual remark, and duly signed in order, will come to Mr Kaňkovský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u24	Thank you. I have two factual points on the factual point. First of all, I want to apologize to the Minister, because I was just told that when I took advantage of our health services for 48 hours and I missed the Health Committee, it was a phase where that opinion changed, so I'm sorry, I didn't know that. Maybe if it was written on the drug record, that you did it, that it would sting here. That's the first thing. And the other thing about everyone they've talked to, about you and your colleague. The problem isn't that the paramedic shouldn't be able to know, but let's make it an exception that in the case of emergence, it's a thing that can be done because the patient has no chance of communicating. It's the same as when you have to decide about a child in an erratic case and you don't have parents who are somewhere, so don't tell me you're just not gonna save his life. All we have to do here is make sure that a paramedic in a situation like this has a right to this approach, nothing else. You don't have to because of such a special situation, she's special, she's not so common, she's not that many people for 8 million people unconscious, and I know that for her own sake, it would be enough to give that opportunity to this. And, of course, I didn't want to touch anyone who was 50, 60 doing well. I know it exists. I was just saying that it's getting physical and we're gonna add another problem to the doctors that they're gonna have to deal with. But it doesn't say anything about whether or not they're doing it right. That's what I'd have to say, that I should stop working. Well, I certainly didn't say that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u25	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. Now other factual points, my colleague Kaňkovský will wait. Mr Václav Votava, Mr David Kasal and Mr Václav Klaus. Now, therefore, Mr Václav Votava's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, it is very interesting to listen to this debate. I'm quite surprised. If this system is being questioned by non-doctors, I can understand it. It's not me, I said I was up for it last time, but I'm surprised that doctors are divided in such a way. Of course, they have their reasons, okay, I take it, but I would understand that mostly doctors, because it's basically in quotes and in the defense of doctors, so if, of course, they prescribe something to someone, ordain it, and then it's a problem because they can't stand each other's medications and they can endanger the patient, so it's probably wrong. Perhaps one comment about Mr Svoboda, whom I very much appreciate, through the President. You said nothing was 100%. You're right, with one exception, that you and I and somebody else in this world must leave at some point. Yes, that's probably the only certainty, but otherwise, of course, there's nothing 100%, and there's a lot of things that we never do if we take them like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr David Kasal's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll restock my previous output. This is where we talked about the paramedics, but the parents, or in the summer period, are now going to be a number of camps where the kids are put into the care of campers and they're delivering them to hospitals with different conditions, so it's exactly the same thing. There are a lot of situations that protect both patients and doctors. And a little comment on the previous exit. You said medicine was changing. Yeah, but she's kind of changing the whole company. And I don't think it's just about being a partner, because right now, when you want to be a partner, a patient comes to you, tells you what's wrong with him because he read it on Googl, and you're talking to him, because, of course, that's all you have left from this point of view. But even a young generation of doctors is sometimes problematic. I've seen doctors finish their shift at 3:30, and he was able to put the scalpel down. Or I think Professor Pafko, the genius surgeon who had surgery with him, and because the surgery ran late, said to him, "Mr. Professor, can I be late the next day for the hour I've been in surgery?" So I think we need to take it on both sides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u30	Hello. I, of course, will not comment on medicine, it is not my field, but by your means, I would like to comment on Mr Svoboda's predecessor. You know, I'd ask you to talk about what you understand. So if you say 50-year-old gym teachers don't take ski courses with kids, it's total nonsense. I know a lot of 60s who do it, working honestly. Well, then you're doing a little bit of dehoneying, even the paramedics that you might call it. If you could just apologize to those honest gym teachers who do their work late, there's a lot of them, maybe it would be for the benefit of the cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u31	I thank Mr Václav Klaus for his speech and for his time. One more factual point by Mr Svoboda and still awaiting colleague Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u32	Thank you. By means of you to Mr Klaus. All his speeches are fulfilled by attacking someone and explaining to them that he knows better. I don't mind. I've known the MP for years. I said the only thing I insist. I'm a former top athlete, and I know what it is when your knuckles hurt, I know what it is when your leg matures for total endoprosthetics because you ruined your knuckles. I said the only thing that when you're 30, it's very funny, and when you're 50, your body hurts. It has nothing to do with the fact that he didn't do it well and with full responsibility. It's just complicated, and we have it in every field. What we have in all fields is that some things become physiologically more difficult. It's just feet hurt, Mr. Ambassador. Feet hurt. You'll know that someday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now one more factual remark from Mr Václav Klaus. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u34	I'm not gonna get out anymore, because it's obviously an important problem, medical recipes and paramedic stuff. But to say that every time I get out, I just attack someone, it's a lie. I didn't attack anyone, I stood up for older Czech gym teachers. Just like yesterday, I stood up for the bad guys so they wouldn't get the local fees up. So don't use false statements. And the other thing. You didn't say anything about people getting old. I would agree with you on that. You said 50-year-old gym teachers were just standing there looking at kids making a fuss. I took the liberty of covering it up, so don't lie here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we can continue with properly registered colleagues and this is Mr Vít Kaňkovský, then colleague Petr Třešňák and Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u36	Good morning. Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, I would like to comment on the amendment to the Act on Medicines at third reading on behalf of the KDU-ČSL. I would like to start by saying, and I have already mentioned it here both at first and second reading, that the KDU-ČSL club supports the introduction of a drug record. I'd say that's our club's first position. [[10.20 hours]] It's been a long time here, and it's been discussed. the whole discussion and the committees dealt most with the opt-out, opt-in system, i.e. whether we should go the way of supposed consent, i.e. the opt-out system, or whether we should go the system of mandatory prior consent. The discussion didn't come to some very definite resumé. However, the Ministry proposes an opt-out system, i.e. the patient's consent is assumed. And if the patient wants to disagree, he can do so. I must say that the KDU-ČSL long-term tendency is to protect the citizen's personal integrity as much as possible, which means that his privacy is affected as little as possible. However, we understand that the drug record system is so important from a medical point of view that an exception can be made here under certain circumstances. What would make me happy? If the opt-out system, as suggested by the Ministry, would be much easier to work out the possibility of the patient both processively and technically express active disapproval. That's what I miss about the proposal. And unfortunately, even after all the discussions in the Health Committee, I am not convinced that it will be humanly friendly for patients, especially seniors, especially for patients handicapped in remote residences. That is what I think is missing from this proposal. However, it is also important to see that we have experienced the introduction of some other modalities here. And it's already been discussed here today about the IZIP system, the electronic health book, when we went the opt-in route, that means actively expressed consent to the introduction of an electronic book, or the use of an electronic health book. And unfortunately it turned out that in the Czech environment this system was not working very well and a number of measures were being taken, a colleague named Kasal talked about how to get the patient, a citizen, into the system in some way. And unfortunately, despite all the patients, there were insufficient numbers. Therefore, if the drug record is to work in the Czech Republic, we need as many patients as possible, citizens. And under these circumstances, as a KDU-ČSL club, we are willing to proceed to the opt-out system. But I would very much like the Ministry to work on cultivating actively expressed disapproval in patients who really do not want to go into the drug record for various reasons, and there are really more of those reasons, but they simply have a clear view that they do not want their drug record to be handled and looked at. Here I think that the technical and procedural solution really is not at a very kind level towards patients. However, I would like to mention one group of patients, or respectively. I would like to mention the activity of some patient groups, which, due to possible social stigmatization, do not really want to be in the automatic preliminary regime, i.e. opt-out mode. I've already talked about this here at second reading. These are patients with HIV infection and patients with some psychiatric diseases, which are groups of patients who can be stigmatized in a significant way in the social climate. We also discussed this very closely on the Health Committee. I think that with regard to HIV positive patients, Mr. Minister and I have made it clear, because their treatment takes place in a mostly central way, thus there is the risk that, in fact, their disease will be revealed through a preview of the drug record and perhaps someone who should not be aware of it. [[Isn't it?]] Unfortunately, in some groups of psychiatric patients, especially in the Czech climate, social stigmatization can still be. And it can sometimes be very expressive and can be very handicapped by those people in social life, so in work life. That is why I have prepared an amendment, which you have in the vote referred to in point I, which proposes an exemption from the automatic opt-out regime, i.e. preliminary consent, for a group of patients who would be ordered by decree or by a sub-legal standard, the Ministry of Health has set out. And I am thinking, in particular, of some psychiatric conditions. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support this amendment, which could exclude the social stigmatisation in these patients. And otherwise, for the KDU-ČSL club, I say we support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u37	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Mr. Petr Třešňák now. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u38	Good morning. My esteemed colleague, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to respond only to the facts of Professor Adámková, but then I joined the debate properly and it was my turn only now. But at the same time, I have to apologize for not wanting to talk directly about the drug record, which was actually the original purpose of this government amendment, but, as it happens, when a law on medicines opens up, it brings on many other unrelated topics, whether they were market shares or the reimbursement of medical cannabis. It is in this context that I would like to ask you to support Mr Tomáš Vymazal's amendment, which abolishes the 30-gram restriction on the reimbursement of medical cannabis and actually leaves it to the prescriber, who already has, I believe, 180 grams. The world's leading experts in the field, such as Professor Lumír Hanuš of the University of Jerusalem, have expressed critically and critically to this reduction of 30 grams. And I will remind you that the Prime Minister, too, is now expressing himself as a model for Israel in the field of medical cannabis. And only when the professor mentioned at the beginning that almost all medicines have this limit on the amount of payments, surely there are many doctors and you will also find examples where the limit for reimbursement is set so high that it can also kill the patient, which is certainly not this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u39	Thank you, Mr Třešňák Man. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u40	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I took part in Monday's meeting, followed by engineer Třešňák. The point is that the 30 grams is actually a big benefit because the attending doctor doesn't have to consult anyone and nothing like that. Otherwise, for everyone, there are, of course, 180 grams left, which then, of course, would be approved by a review doctor. As for some other things, I don't want to go into this, but, of course, supervision and, similarly, Israel has a much stricter level than we expect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u41	Thank you. Now, with his speech, Mr Válek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Now I do not know if I will again get that these words must not be said, but thank you very much through the President, Mr Kaňkovský, because almost like Jan Zlatoústý, he said everything I would say. And I'll say one more thing. Just like the KDU-ČSL club, we will support this amendment because I think it is useful for patients. We have exactly the same reservations. And I have the same request as Mr Kaňkovský through Mr President: let us simplify the possibility of opt-out. The easier it gets, the better people will be. It's useless to complicate people's lives. And still, as far as cannabis is concerned, I totally understand the objections, but I don't think that's why this law should not be supported here. I firmly believe that we can figure out a way to define the effective dose of cannabis in the standard way and the other things as with other medicines. I don't think it's an unsolvable problem, and I hope it does happen very quickly. And there's really only one thing I have left to discuss with other colleagues, and I'm going to try to explain it again. It's really not a dispute. Repeatedly all of you who are doctors, it's hard to explain to non-medical professionals, you're experiencing a situation that you have a patient, you have some information from a patient, and there's other information in the file. And through the President, the Member has made that clear and is absolutely right. And you're trying to verify if the patient's information is correct, if the information is correct, and now I'm going to use that term, the medical file is correct. You're trying to verify it in a way that, for example, you have lithiasis on the right in the CT image description, but the patient has a colic on the left, so you're calling for X-rays, so if the patient is somehow confusing sides or an X-rayologist, you look at the scans, you're just trying to figure out the truth. Of course, it can never be achieved 100%, but we are trying to eliminate human error, human error. And by means of the President, the docent put it so precisely that I could not have done it better in my dreams. [[10.30 hours]] Of course, it can never be achieved 100%, but we are trying to eliminate human error, human error, and through the President, the docent put it so precisely that I could not have done it better in my dreams. And the medical drug record is, from my point of view, another medical file. If I'm an expert in court, and those of you who are experts, there's always medical documentation being considered. Not what the patient said, but what's in the medical file. And I have to prove when I had medical records that his right leg hurts, and his right leg is cold, and there are ulcers on my right leg, why I did an angioplasty on his left. And I have to say, because there was a wrong description here, etc., and then, how come there was a wrong description. I just have to tell you why I've acted, as I've progressed in this case, where the dispute is headed. And I repeat what I have said here several times. I really do, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really. I can't think of anything. I was really trying to figure it out. I don't want an answer now. That's not why I would vote against it, but please don't underestimate it. I don't want to get into a situation where one of us is going to sit in court as a forensic expert, and there's gonna be a doctor there explaining why he didn't follow the drug record, trusting a patient who was wrong, and otherwise, by asking a patient, he checked the medical records that he wasn't taking the drugs that were on the record. If I had thought of this earlier, and I'm very sorry that I didn't think of it this way earlier, I would have said it on the Health Committee, and I think we would have discussed it and probably the Ministry and the lawyers, etc. they came up with some answers. I'm just saying again, let's not underestimate it and please let this be resolved. It's a new type of medical documentation that we haven't exactly had so far. So just let him be treated like medical records and there won't be any problems in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u43	I thank Mr Válek. This was the last written entry into the debate. Mr Ferjenčík is reporting from the position. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to conclude this debate by asking you, on the contrary, to support the proposal of my colleague Profant and the Pirates' Opt-in Access Club, for citizens to decide on their own whether they really want to make extremely sensitive health data available to a relatively wide group of people. We simply think that privacy has priority in this matter and that it would very much motivate the state to make the system user-friendly. At the same time, I personally think that the path of some technocratic approach to medicine, where a doctor simply has a list of operations where he runs a number of databases, and then he gets some diagnosis, I think the path is wrong, but that's my personal note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u45	Mr Vyzula and Mr David Kasal's comments in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u46	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It will give me nothing but a very brief response, because basically everything for and against here has been said and has no point in repeating it. However, the line here is one argument, and that's when there's discruption between the drug record and what the patient claims, how the doctor is actually safe and protected here. This is the last time Professor Válek has mentioned it through yours, Mr President. I think there's a very simple answer here, and he even answered it himself. The basics are the medical file. If this is written in the medical file, I acted so and so on account of the fact that this record is in the medical record, but the patient tells me otherwise, I made the decision this way. Just what's written is given. That's one thing. And the other thing about opt-in, please. Let's not go back to that, it's not worth it, because the opt-in system was here, it was IZIP, and how many of those patients were there? There were only tens of thousands of patients. We need all the patients there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr David Kasal and his fellow Ferjenčík. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u48	Thank you. Me very briefly. I couldn't hold on to what I heard from my colleague Ferjenčík through you. My colleague, as far as technocratic access to medicine is concerned, it is what the youngest colleagues who are doing. They have exactly what you're talking about. They'll see what it's like, and one day after some... And that's what we're defending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u49	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. And before he comes to the counter, from 12:30 p.m. he apologizes for his work reasons, colleague Jaroslav Holík. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u50	DS. I would just like to ask that IZIP, which was one of the largest tunnels in our health care, should not be used as any argument of any user-friendly system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Since we're at the third reading, we still have the final words. The Minister is interested in the final word. The rapporteur? It does not, so we will proceed further after the Minister's final word. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for the whole debate and very interesting debate. I'm going to try to answer some of the things that have been said here and where the answer hasn't been fully answered yet. About the exit from the system, and here it's been said several times to make it easier. I have to say, the way the proposal counts on it, and from my point of view, it's very simple, because the proposal assumes a number of ways. One option is electronically through a web application, through a data box, or directly to the doctor, if the patient has an electronic ID card, so a doctor with this electronic ID card can step out of the system. These are electronic channels. And then there's the roads, let's say, not to offend someone, but for those who may not be entirely capable of technology, internet, etc., and that's a written way. All you have to do is write a letter with your hands. The only thing is that signature has to be officially verified. [[Laughter from the Pirates' bench.]] And of course, either the municipal office or the post office, or the lawyer, or the notary. Of course, it is clear that we must have some guarantee that this is really about the person. You're talking about being afraid of abuse, but we can't let anyone write a letter or, in any way, it won't be verified that it's really the person, and someone decides that the person has given consent to get out of the system. So there's got to be some kind of verification, and that minimum verification is an officially verified signature, which will be verified by every municipal authority, every post office, attorney, notary, and that letter can be very simple, written by hand. So I think there's a lot of ways to get out of this, there's a lot of variability. And of course, we can talk about some other simplification in the future, we certainly do not resist it, it is the discussion, but I think that the way it is set up, and there are several ways that make it quite easy to get out of this system, but on the other hand, to actually verify that it is the person who really wants to get out of it. Otherwise, I'd say the whole point of the drug record at all. Once again, when we look, and Professor Svoboda here was talking about the public interest, I think there really is a public interest here, because we have a problem with drug interactions, we have a problem with duplication. This is clearly demonstrated by data that are indisputable. When we look at how extremely increasing the number of hospitalizations of patients who are hospitalized precisely because of adverse drug reactions, interactions, etc., over the past 10 years about 3.5 times. Last data from 2017: 6 200 hospitalizations. [[10.40 hours]] That's all the costs that the system carries on these hospitalizations. We have an increase in deaths associated with this, about ten times from 2007 to 2017. In 2017, 252 deaths related to adverse drug reactions with interactions, etc. So I actually see the public interest here. I see a public interest in the public health insurance system for the public itself. And I think that the proposal, as it is conceived, actually guarantees citizens' personal rights as well. Guarantees that whoever makes the decision will be able to step out of the system, and that's the basis. So it's not a warrant, no directive, no prison. It's very possible to get out of the system. And in this regard, I think that the rights of all individuals are guaranteed while maintaining that public interest and also while maintaining that we really need that drug record to be used. I'd like to remind you of the debate we had here around the beginning of 2018. At the turn of 2017/2018, when we discussed here in the House this already issue of introducing a mandatory electronic recipe. And there were also opinions that it should be voluntary, let the doctors decide etc. I'm convinced that if it was voluntary, today's electronic recipe is completely out of order. Since it has thus been achieved that it is now an obligation to prescribe electronically with certain exceptions, we have about 60 million in 2018. electronic recipes prescribed and this goes on, about 6.5 miles. every month. The system works, people get used to it, doctors get used to it. And I think it will still be with the drug record that even now there are various concerns, so in that practice it turns out that it makes sense, that it makes sense especially for those patients, for doctors in terms of guarantee of safety and quality of care in Czech health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u53	Thank you for your final words to the Minister of Health. The rapporteur, Mrs Adámková, is not going to take the final floor, nor is Mrs Věra Procházková, Mrs Matyášová for the petition committee. We can therefore proceed and proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mrs Věra Adámková, to introduce us to the voting procedure, and then to present individual amendments. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Pikal. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u54	I apologize for interrupting at the last minute, but I would like to ask for a ten-minute break in our parliamentary club's meeting as we continue the vote on the amendments and on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u55	Okay, thank you. I'm declaring a recess for the Pirate Club meeting until 10.53.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. The Pirate Club meeting is over. We will therefore deal with the vote. I therefore repeat the request to the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Věra Adámková, to introduce us to the voting procedure, which we will vote first and then we will deal with the various amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of our several-month effort. Thank you for all the contributions you've had. As far as the procedure is concerned, we still have your consent vote on Wednesday, I hope, with our withdrawal of Amendment C2. We didn't make it because there were other points. Before we get to the whole procedure, please, Mr President, to have you vote to withdraw the proposal under C2. I was the one who justified it on Wednesday. For those who have not been here or do not remember it, which I understand, this is about the fact that there is a legal sense of uncertainty in relation to this law and 1169/2011 Coll., and we cannot, of course, allow that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u58	Okay, thank you. We will therefore first vote on whether the House agrees to withdraw the amendment, as stated by the rapporteur. First, I'm going to check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the proposal to withdraw in the 1052 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 1052, from Members of the Council of 151 for 146, against no one. The motion was accepted. The House agreed to withdraw this amendment. Now, then, to the procedure for voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u59	Thank you. We will no longer deal with this. As for the next procedure, we will be the first to vote on Amendment C1. I'll always tell you what's going on. If this is too brief for someone, I have all the amendments here, if anyone needs to look again, that is, of course, possible. On the contrary, because I have been in this for many months, if you feel that there is anything else to be said, I am, of course, here as rapporteur, or not my opinion, but as far as the guarantee committee is concerned, whenever willing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u60	All right. Let's continue with the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u61	The first is Amendment C1, which concerns the period of effectiveness, and this is because 1 July is completely irrelevant, so in this amendment, I propose that we approve that the period of effectiveness will be the first day of the second calendar month following the publication of this law, which we are not committed to any date which could then limit further negotiations. That'll be one. Next is the amendment under letter B, which was originally an amendment to the constitutionally legal committee, which gave a date which is also irrelevant, or if we accept C1, we will no longer vote B. Others will be the amendments made by Mr Vymazal, and these are the amendments against the resolution of the guarantee committee, so that we will vote them before the resolution of the guarantee committee. These are amendments H1, H2. In that amendment H1, H2 - who remembers it, I apologize if someone didn't know, which is why I remind you briefly - this is the maximum dose of cannabis and a 100% payment from public health insurance. Another amendment under letter H3 will be tabled by Mr Vymazal, which is printing 2812 where it is another type of calculation of remuneration. The next is A, which is the resolution of the Committee on Health, where all the amendments that were before the second reading were already settled. The next will be the amendment under letter D, all of you have it, submitted by Mr Farhan. There's a simplification of loading doctor's ID codes. The next is Amendment E by Mr Profant, where the point is that the basis would be to disagree with the view to the drug record. Another is the amendment under letter I by Mr Kaňkovský, who would not have voted if the E had been adopted, but otherwise it is an exclusion from the view of the drug record for certain groups of patients. Another is the amendment under the letter F to Mr Nacher, where it concerns mail order sales of medicines. Another is the amendment under the letter J by Mr Pawlas on the provision of medicines to pharmacies. The next is the amendment g to Mr Pávek, where market shares are involved. If J is accepted, G is no longer unvoting. Then we would vote on the bill as a whole. Well, that's the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u62	Thank you. Are there any comments on the procedure? If they are not, we will vote on procedure in the vote number 1053, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 1053, out of 153 for 153, i.e. all of them. The procedure has been accepted. Before I hand over the proceedings, I will read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 11 o'clock to the end of the day, Mrs Blažková apologises (?).
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u63	Good morning, so we will follow the procedure that we have now approved. Please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u64	Mr President, please vote on Amendment C1 as I have just presented it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u65	Opinion, please. [[- Agreed. Reporter: Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1054. Registered 153 Members, for 153, against no one. We have accepted the motion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Amendment B shall no longer be voted on. We've accepted C1. We are also voting on the amendments H1 and H2 deleted Mr Vymazal as I presented them. And this is where we vote no recommendation. This is an amendment to the resolution of the guarantee committee. So it's a change to the resolution of the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u67	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree. - rapporteur: the Committee does not recommend it.]] Thank you. [[Newsletter: This is not a recommendation.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1055. Registered 154 Members, for 59, against 69. The motion was not accepted. President Michálek to vote. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u68	Thank you for the floor. I would simply ask that the committee's position be correctly stated on the proposal - it does not recommend it. And it is not that Members are to vote in favour of non-advisors, because this is then misleading and indicative, which should not be the case by the rapporteur. Thank you for this projection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u69	Thank you. The rapporteur's position has been expressed in some way, otherwise I would not have voted. But, of course, the objection is appropriate. Madam rapporteur, please make your position clear at the end. Then the Minister will give his opinion and it will be done according to custom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u70	Okay. I thought I repeated that the committee did not recommend it. If it didn't come out, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u71	All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u72	So the next is the amendment H3 deleted Mr Vymazal as it was tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u73	Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1056. Registered 155 Members, for 42, versus 70. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u74	Thank you. And now, please, we would vote nicely on the amendment or, respectively, the resolution you have under letter A. This is a resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Health, as en bloc has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u75	Committee opinion? [[Recommends.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1057. Announced 155 MPs, for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u76	Another is Mr Farhan's Amendment D as presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u77	Committee opinion? [[Recommends.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1058. Registered 155 MPs, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u78	Another is the amendment under the letter E by Mr Profant, as tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u79	Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1059. Registered 155 Members, for 38, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u80	Another is the amendment under letter I of Mr Kaňkovský, as I presented him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u81	Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1060. Registered 155 MPs, 63, versus 71. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u82	In addition, there is an amendment under letter F to Mr Nacher's mail order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u83	Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1061. 155 Members registered, for 1, against 117. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u84	Furthermore, there is an amendment under the letter J by Mr Pawlas as tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u85	Committee opinion? [[Recommends.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1062. Registered 155 Members, for 128, against 8. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u86	Since the amendment under letter J has been adopted, letter G from the Member The peacock is no longer unspeakable. Mr President, please vote on the proposal as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-001-155.u87	Yes, thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, as amended by Act No. 290/2017 Coll., according to the House's Press 302, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on Medicines]] [[Act on Medicines]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1063. Registered 155 Members, for 103, against 9. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and I conclude on this point. [[11.10 hours]] Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura has been apologizing since 11.15 hours for work reasons. Now we're going to look at point number
