ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 27th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. According to our decision from Friday last week, we don't start until 3:00 today. I'm asking you to sign up with ID cards, or tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the hearing: Radek Vondráček within 17 hours for working reasons, Dana Balcarová until 16.45 for working reasons, Marian Bojko for work reasons for the whole afternoon, Milan Chovanec for personal reasons for the whole afternoon, Miroslav Kalousek for health Pavel also for the whole afternoon, Jiří Kobza from 16 to 19 hours for work reasons, for health reasons for the whole afternoon Jan Lipavský, for personal reasons of Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, for foreign travel Radka Maxová, for family reasons Jiří Mihola, for Jan Volný she further apologizes Nevludová Nevrodová, for no reason for Roman Onderka, for Tureček of foreign travel Jana Pastuchová, but she is here, so I apologise Karel Schwarzenberg for health Žáček, for Bohuslav of international travel. Mrs. Balcarová also cancels her apology. We can apologize to the members of the government. For reasons of foreign travel, Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for work reasons, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons, Robert Plaga also for work reasons. After consulting the Gremium, it is proposed that paragraph 147, the request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Miloslav Rozner, be firmly placed on Wednesday 13 March as the second point in the afternoon after 14.30, i.e. for the already firmly placed paragraph 21. Furthermore, the Grémium suggests that point 87, House press 414-E, or House document, prior consent - financing of the Union budget in 2019, should be firmly included as the first point on Friday, 15 March following possible third readings. That's all from the point of view of grémia. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. We will now discuss the individual applications for the debate. Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek is the first to report. Mr Lukáš Bartoň and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Now Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace... Mr President, wait a little while longer until the House calms down so that we can vote on the individual proposals... Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me, on behalf of our assembly club - as I have already announced at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, however, I have not been able to find a consensus for all the subjects in the House - to add a point to the agenda, I have consulted with Minister Took. That point would be called Myth Myth Issue since 2006. At the same time, I propose to include this item on Thursday after the written interview at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u3	Yes, Thursday 14. 3:00 p.m. Another colleague, then, Lukáš Bartoň. [[Member Stanjure reporting.]] Mr. Colleague, you may have a written application, but with priority rights the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'd say a nice attempt to evasive Mr. Faltýnek's maneuver. I have to appreciate him politically. However, I would like to point out to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies that in the approved agenda for this meeting we have paragraph 149, which is called Government Information on the selection procedure for the toll system. I mean, we first approved that point for the program on May 22, 2018, which is almost nine months, and until last week the police procedure provoked the ANO movement to suddenly want to discuss that point. We could've been over that a long time ago. Since then, there have been many meetings at which the item was placed, but no one has suggested that it be put forward. I will do this today, and I propose that this point - and this is not a new point, but the point that we have had on the agenda for nine months - be the first one today. I'll try to justify it briefly. And I will not talk about the police aspects of this matter, because it does not really belong to me, only to political aspects. Actually, both of those Brno cases. Because both of these cases affect the Department of Transport of Dan Ťok. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I didn't say minister, I said minister. That's a big difference. At least I see it as a big difference, whether something touches the resort or the minister himself. And here I'll repeat for the Minister that it concerns the resort and not him as a person. The fact that we have different professional disputes is another matter. It just doesn't belong here. Yesterday, with such great fame, I noticed that the councilman of the YES movement, who is in custody at that time, was removed from the supervisory board of the subsidiary of České dráhy ČD Cargo. I think it's okay. The question is, how did he get there? From yesterday's statements made by the ANO movement representatives, I have come to the impression that this gentleman is some unsubstantiated local politician whom no one has ever met, with whom no one has spoken, which no one knows anything about. But the former mayor said he met him and talked to him, so at least he said they weren't close. However, I looked at justice.cz , České dráhy publishes things to be published, and I found that this councilman from Brno center, if memory does not deceive me, was elected the Board of Directors of České dráhy in March 2017 to the Supervisory Board of ČD Cargo. I cannot imagine what an unknown local politician, not even from the Brno council, would have named or elected from some part of the city, the Board of Directors of České dráhy - now I do not know exactly what the status is - a member of ČD Cargo Supervisory Board. So I'd like to know from you, Minister, who suggested it to the board. Whether it was Minister Ťok or the second expert on transport, Mr President of the ANO member club Jaroslav Faltýnek, or former mayor of Vokřál. I'm just curious. It is not by itself that the board of municipal policy should just elect the supervisory board, not the municipal company, but the subsidiaries of our national carrier. He must have had influential intercessors. He must have had someone who designed him into that position, and then he was formally elected by the then board of České dráhy. [[15.10 hours]] Since yesterday, perhaps since last week, we've been hearing from President Faltýnek, and that doesn't have to be through, that's not what I'm calling you, I called it "the fairy tales of a sheep grandmother" as the sacrificial chairman of the club set off to arrange for a reduction in the price to the toll system. Although it was after the contract was submitted, it was after the offers were submitted, but he went out and arranged it. I'm from the press from President Faltýnek's statement. I don't have any other information. I also noted in the press the comment of the Minister of Transport because it concerns his department that Mr Faltýnek had no mandate to discuss the myth, neither with it nor with it. And I have to say, I trust the Minister of Transport on this. He described this political mess, how the chairs were shaking under it, and I know the description was quite accurate. This may have harmed Minister Took when I said it on the microphone, but I am an opposition politician. This is an extenuating circumstance, Minister, that it falls from the mouth of opposition politics. And I think we can deal with this today and fairly simply. The Minister must be prepared when that point has been on the agenda for nine months. I can't believe he's not ready. I'd underestimate that office. I know a little bit about him, so I think he's got some background. And it's not a matter of the Minister of Transport, this case. Because the Minister of Transport clearly said it had nothing to do with him. So what do we want to hear from him besides what we've heard before? I think the Prime Minister should answer. Because even the Prime Minister can order his first vice-chairman to negotiate a price reduction behind the back of the Minister of Transport. It seems a little smiley to me, but we don't know. I think those are legitimate questions. On Thursday, we approved and firmly included long-term and long-standing reports on the activities and management of Czech Television, where the YES movement is long-term, and I think this is an attempt to prevent these points from being discussed on Thursday, because obviously, if we were to comply with President Faltýnek's proposal, from parliamentary experience, we can say that the two hours of the day will not come to those reports 100%. I know it's a side effect that it's not the main motive, but it's a nice side effect again. And it seems politically - politically, I point out - completely strange. Even those statements about how the selfless chairman went to Brno to have a meeting with the candidate, he had a meeting with the person who decided on the competition, very unusual, and so far we hear a great silence, especially from the Prime Minister's mouth. Because that point is government information, as I assume, would be involved in this debate as well...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u5	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask the House for peace. If you are discussing anything other than the agenda for this afternoon's meeting, which we must approve, please be in the foyer. And I would rather you take your seats in the House and listen calmly to the proposals for changing the agenda. And don't make me name those who cancel the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u6	I was just commenting that the ANO transport experts had a quick briefing. I have no choice but to respect that. I propose a new point. I'm suggesting a point that we already have in the long run. I think we can debate the political positions and the political circumstances of the case there. At the same time, allow me, on behalf of our club, to express my concern about leaking information from an ongoing investigation. We are assured by the police that it was not from them, but our experts, who are in the area of criminal law, consider it to be very unusual for a warrant to include quotes made by wiretaps. It's like it's a guide to it. It's like it's an alibi in advance. That if it gets away, it's not from us. And it's a question for the Home Secretary, who I don't want to know the answer to immediately, whether it's customary that wiretaps are quoted in the search warrant. It doesn't seem normal to our experts. And I mean, it's wrong, no matter who it is. I will not use the tactics of our political opponents who rejoiced when this happened to some members of the Civil Democratic Party. It's just wrong. It is an influence of public opinion in a way that is unacceptable. And I think, and it's up to the members of the government, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, to investigate it properly, because these are practices that are not acceptable. Not really. And I want to make it perfectly clear. That is why I said that we want to debate the political aspects of possible influence, the decision-making of the Office for the Protection of Competition. That's serious enough. To do that, we do not need to quote illegal leaks of alleged wiretaps. Not really. However, President Faltýnek admitted that the meetings took place. I quoted the Minister's statement that he didn't know anything about it, that he didn't entrust it to anyone, and it's extremely strange. Plus, the time-coherence. I think that we and the public deserve to have this debate today. I do not think it would have to be extremely long, but we certainly have room for clear opinions from President Faltýnek, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport. And even if that point had not been included today, I would have asked the Minister of Transport today for an answer to my first question about how the person in custody today, councilman for the YES movement, got on the ČD Cargo Supervisory Board. Who designed it. We know who called him off. No offense. But we should know who designed him and who put him there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. A colleague of mine Bartoň will wait, because with priority rights he is also a colleague of Faltýnek. And before I give him my word, I state the cancellation of Mrs Radka Maxová's apology and the new apology of Minister Jan Kněžínek for this afternoon's work. Spare card number 2 has a colleague Jaroslav Okleštěk. Now, President Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just a very brief, short line for the performance of Honorable President Zbyněk Stanjura. We'll discuss it this week. Whether it's today or Thursday, in my opinion, it doesn't matter. But today we have the Senate vomit on the agenda. And I understand that Mr Stanjura's argument that he simply does not want to discuss religious restitution today that he does not want to discuss the refunded tax package. I understand. But I say again for us, for the club of the YES movement, we want to discuss this matter this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u9	I thank my colleague Faltýnek. Now we have the order of Zbyněk Stanjura, Jakub Michálek, Jan Bartošek with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u10	President Faltýnek is wrong, and let me address him through you, Mr Vice-President. The backs of the Senate, let's just say. GDPR, the hot news of Babišův's first government. We originally wanted to adopt this by May 2018, so that we could have an adaptation law when the regulation was effective. We're nine months later, we're ready to support the Senate version, we have no reason to delay. As far as the tax package is concerned, we voted in favour of the House version, even though we were critical of it. We have made a constructive contribution to the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, and our colleagues in the Senate have added points that are in favour of tradesmen and small entrepreneurs in particular. We could have used the majority we have in the Senate to push through the fundamental economic points of our program, but we were aware of political reality, so we didn't enforce it, because such a backlash from the Senate would have no chance. This return to the Senate, in our opinion, has a chance. If you're serious about how you're gonna support businessmen, you're gonna vote with us for the Senate version. [[15.20 hours]] And as for church restitutions, we're not voting tonight anyway. We don't need to put a point to that, because we have something to say, because today, when we celebrated 20 years of NATO entry and we heard nice, I would say, anti-communist speeches from the presidents of the surrounding countries, we are not prepared to pay the Communists for your support of your government. Church restitution may start today, but it certainly won't end today regardless of whether paragraph 149 is the first or not. That's for sure. And you can trust me, we can tell each other at 8:00, who was right, whether or not that point was voted on today. I'm telling you, there's not going to be a vote on that point today. All we have to do is read the Senate's screen record, so that the strong arguments that the senators from various political parties, from different clubs in the Senate, often disagreed on other issues, as they argued in agreement with this apparently unconstitutional bill. Then don't hide behind it. We didn't make it up, we didn't organize those meetings with the head of the UOHS, we weren't on them, we didn't send an ANO detention policy to ČD Cargo's supervisory board. That was one of you, and we want to know who. And we want to know as soon as possible today. And then - I'm sorry, Mr.Faltýnek, through the Vice-President - if you say the sentence 'we don't care if it's Tuesday or Thursday', then vote for Tuesday if you don't care. It doesn't matter to us, we're up for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now a colleague of Michálek. President Bartošek will be ready, then Minister Jan Hamáček will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I am very pleased that the atmosphere has changed over the weekend. When I suggested on Thursday that the relevant actors comment on this, there was a bang on the bench. I'm so glad that now after the weekend, it's all in my head, and now the ANO even suggests it itself. However, I would not agree with how that point was defined by President Faltýnek, because he has defined it in terms of history since 2006. And yet only when we remember how the performances were abused here, for example, in the case of Mr. Babiš, who described all the corruptions here, that he would end up with his own, when he was only supposed to comment on his own, the Chapi's hnízdo, so I would very much hate to see it spread out in some way, that we would be expressing ourselves here on the history of the toll system, because it certainly is not the merit of the matter. However, the arguments that have been raised here, in particular, I think it is polite for us to have a representative of the Senate here, so to give them the opportunity to speak, so given that we can at least settle the not-so-difficulty issues that we will decide by voting on the Senate's rebuttal proposals, I suggest that we place paragraph 149, which concerns tolls if the President Stanjura's proposal does not pass, as point 2, which is the GDPR amendment law; or if this proposal does not pass, then point 3. This means that we will comply with the objection that we will be dealing with the laws passed by the Senate, and we will be able to do it today, I hope, because at least I don't think the discussion on the processing of personal data will take all day and we will be able to discuss it. On the contrary, I don't think we're gonna be able to make any more church restitution today. So if you want to do this constructively, I'm also giving this proposal so that we can reach a compromise and discuss it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've noted your alternative suggestions. Now, my colleague Bartošek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u14	Thank you. In agreement with the ODS, I give the veto to two clubs, KDU-ČSL and ODS, on a proposal from Mr Faltýnek. Alternatively, I propose that if Mr Stanjura's proposal and, where appropriate, the pirát' proposal do not pass, that paragraph 141 be discussed first on Thursday. Otherwise, briefly to the program. If it were, sir... First at 11:00. [[He's turning to Chairman Faltynek.]] To communicate over a microphone, Mr. Chairman, huh? Otherwise, Mr President, through Mr President, no matter when the point is, we are not discussing it now. I believe that there is enough room for that point because the YES movement has often - and often enough - defined itself against political parties and what is happening in them and against those practices. It turns out that neither the ANO movement is immune in practice. And I believe that if this is a serious debate, let it take place, there is plenty of time for it and we can discuss it together. That's why today makes more sense. Sympathic is the pirát' proposal, let the Senate vomit be discussed, because the senators are waiting here, and then for the rest of the day let the point that has been proposed be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u15	Thank you. Now Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u16	Thank you. I don't want to prolong it. I'd just like to respond to President Stanjuru on the matter of police work. You know, on Sunday, on Partie's show on Prima, I said I'd check to see if the information that's in the media could have escaped the police. My point was that right from the beginning of this, let's say, the case being exposed is clear, or to confirm that information is not leaking from the police. Mr. Police President investigated the matter and assured me that the information that appeared in the media didn't escape from the police, that they might have escaped the charges, or the search warrant. I admit that the speculation that the police are writing it on purpose to form an alibi is quite new, and it seems a little farfetched to me. I just want to point out that, of course, I don't know what's in those tell-tales and permits, I haven't read it. If the ODS experts have read them, I wonder how they got to them, because they are documents whose recipients should remain silent about them. I can ask if it is common practice to justify things like this. However, I would like to say in general that I assume that the police officer is obliged to justify his actions somehow. If he justifies what he learned based on the use of operational technology, that's probably an option. But this is speculation on my part, please. Anyway, the important thing for me is that it wasn't confirmed that the information was leaking from the police, because that would, of course, be wrong. If the lawyers or the recipients of the documents are leaking it, that's their problem, but it was important for me to confirm that the police didn't leak the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, enrolled in the debate on the agenda. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to place item 151 firmly, check resolution 66 on the salary of teachers, on the agenda for this meeting for a variable week, on Tuesday 26. 3. 2019, I suspect it is, after already firmly ranked points. Short justification. This resolution, which we adopted almost unanimously, talks about the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is calling on the government to increase teacher salaries by 15% and other staff in education by at least 10 per cent in order to reach an average teacher's salary of 130 per cent of the average salary in the state no later than 2020. In January, the Prime Minister said that he would like to increase the teacher's salaries by 15 percent, which, if calculated, could be achieved by the 130 percent we have requested in the resolution. "Could" I say because it's hard to guess what the average wage in the state is going to be this year, let alone this year. Unfortunately, other information is also coming out from last week that the Minister is already cutting the budget. And it was the salaries of teachers that were one of the items that had been cut off in the work budget. I would like to receive information from the Government whether it intends to meet the challenge in this resolution and whether the information that appears in the media is true, to what extent and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u19	I thank Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, with a proposal to amend the programme. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you for a firm inclusion of the Senate bill, House press 338, which is the Road Traffic Act and in the programme it is item 75. And I'd like to ask you to be on Wednesday 13th. 3rd afternoon after the already fixed points, i.e. after point 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else on the agenda? If not, we will vote on individual proposals. Pavel Kováčik, chairman of the club KSČM. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u22	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, after all, I would like to vote with a clear conscience on the inclusion of individual items in the programme. Therefore, I will ask you for a break at the meeting of the club KSČM for a duration of ten minutes. And the KSČM club, please gather in the corner to discuss this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u23	Thank you. Before I announce a recess for the club meeting, I state Mr Stanislav Juránek's apology, today for work reasons throughout the afternoon. I'm declaring a break until 15.40 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the break for the KSČM Club meeting has ended. I'm gonna ask you all to take your seats, sign up with your ID cards, and we're gonna make a decision on the proposals for transferring the approved points of our 27th meeting. Please settle down. By the first vote, if no one objects, we would decide on the fixed classification of paragraph 147 on Wednesday 13 March as the second point after 14.30 hours, and on Friday 15 March as the first point would be number 87 after third readings. Does anyone object to a single vote? It's not like that. So we can vote on it. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Before the number of applications is settled, I state Mr Lubomír Volný's apology for the whole week for health reasons. We will decide on the political grémia proposal in the vote number 204, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 204, 174 present, 175 in favour of 172, against no one. The proposal was approved and we firmly included paragraphs 147 and 87. We cannot vote on Mr Faltýnek's proposal because there were two vetoes in the parliamentary clubs. We will therefore vote on Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal to point No. 149, the question of tolling system, ranked the first point today. We will decide in the vote number 205, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 205, from 184 in favour of 63, against 32. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The next item is the vote on the inclusion of this point 149 in the order - as the third item in this afternoon's negotiations, the next vote will be as the third item... after point number 3, or as point number 4. First of all, as the third point of this afternoon's meeting. I've started voting number 206, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 206, out of 185 present for 63, against 39. The motion was not accepted. Now, on the count of three this afternoon's meeting. We will decide in the 207 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 207, 185 for 63, against 31 Members present. It wasn't accepted either. We will therefore now vote on the inclusion of paragraph 149 as the first item on Thursday at 11 o'clock. I've started voting number 208, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 208, from the present 185 for 185, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will be voting on paragraph 149, i.e. discussing Thursday at 11 o'clock. We will now decide on Mr Lukáš Bartoň's proposal for a fixed inclusion of paragraph 151, which is the scrutiny of resolution 66 of the Chamber of Deputies on the salaries of teachers. The proposal is to make it 26. 3. after the already fixed points. I've started voting number 209 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 209, from 186 present for 108, versus 2. The proposal was adopted and paragraph No. 151 is therefore included on Tuesday 26. 3. after the already fixed points. The last proposal to amend the agenda is Mrs Věra Kovářová's proposal and concerns the House Press 338, paragraph 75, which will be discussed on Wednesday 13. 3. after fixed points, i.e. point 24. We will decide in the vote number 210, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 210 of 186 present for 57, against 75. The motion was not accepted. This dealt with all the proposals relating to the agenda. So we can continue, and that's item number one of our agenda for today's meeting, it's
