ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - third reading I repeat that we interrupted him on Friday 1 November at the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we are in an adjourned debate. At the rapporteur's table, I will ask a Member of Milan Feranec to take their seats as Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Budget Committee. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are in the Houses of Press 509/3, which was delivered to you on 27 September 2019, much more than ten days before the hearing. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 509/4. We will continue with the interrupted debate in which Members are joined as you see them. We interrupted the debate at the time of Mr Miroslav Kalousek's speech, which will continue his speech. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to complete my explanation and my argument in support of the proposal which I will make at the end of my speech, i.e. a proposal where, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose to return the bill to second reading. If you recall correctly, in my final part for that justification, the reference company was involved in the valuation of the insurance undertaking, when the deferred tax obligations in the case of the reference undertaking do not have the capacity to absorb losses under Article 108 of Directive 2009/138. Therefore, I will continue to assure you that the reference firm will, subject to points (e) and (f), take future management measures consistent with the envisaged future management measures of the original undertaking under Article 23. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the first subparagraph of Article 5 (5) of Directive 2009/138, it considers that the Solvency Capital Requirement of the reference undertaking is equal to the assumptions set out in paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) the risk is considered material if its impact on the calculation of the risk premium could affect the decision-making or judgement of users of this information, including supervisory authorities. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 of Directive 2009/138 is [[9.20 hours]] And now to the technical reserves that we're dealing with here, how they're going to be calculated as a whole. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of the second subparagraph of Article 4 (4) of Directive 2009/138, reliability shall be assessed in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article and the technical provisions shall be valued in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article. Replications of cash flows shall be considered to be reliable if such cash flows are replicated at a level and timing such as to match the underlying risks of these cash flows in all possible scenarios. The following cash flows related to insurance or reinsurance obligations cannot be reliably replicated: cash flows related to insurance or reinsurance obligations that depend on the likelihood of policyholders exercising contractual options, including cancellations and disposals; cash flows related to insurance or reinsurance obligations that depend on the level, development or volatility of the mortality rate, disability rate, disease rate and disease rate; all costs incurred in the management of insurance and reinsurance obligations. Financial instruments shall be considered financial instruments for which reliable market value can be monitored when traded on an active, deep, liquid and transparent market. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 4. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall determine the value of the technical provisions on the basis of the market price of the financial instruments used in the replication process. The amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles shall be calculated in accordance with the limits of insurance or reinsurance contracts to which those amounts relate. The amounts recoverable from special purpose vehicles, the amounts recoverable from final reinsurance contracts pursuant to Article 210 of Directive 2009/138 and the amounts recoverable from other reinsurance contracts shall always be calculated separately. The amounts recoverable from special purpose vehicles shall not exceed the aggregate maximum exposure of the special purpose vehicle to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. For the purposes of calculating the amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles, cash flows shall include only payments related to the compensation for claims and outstanding claims on claims. Payments in connection with other events or claims settled shall be taken into account separately from amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles or other elements of technical provisions. In the event of a deposit in cash flows, the enforceable amounts shall be adjusted accordingly to avoid double counting of assets and liabilities relating to this deposit. The amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles for non-life insurance obligations shall be calculated separately for the premium provision and for the outstanding premium provision as follows: cash flows relating to provisions for outstanding claims include refunds relating to claims counted against gross provisions on outstanding claims of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking that progresses to risks; the cash flows relating to insurance provisions include all other payments. Where cash flows from special purpose vehicles to an insurance or reinsurance undertaking are not directly dependent on claims on an insurance or reinsurance undertaking that progresses risks, the amounts recoverable from those special purpose vehicles shall only be taken into account for future claims to the extent that it can be verified with certainty and objectively that the structural non-compliance between claims and amounts recovered is not relevant. We can get into a situation where there is a simple default of the counterparty. In such a situation, the adjustments designed to take account of the expected loss of the tax by the default of the counterparty referred to in Article 81 of Directive 2009/138, are calculated separately from the other enforceable amounts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u3	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. Firstly, I will ask the House for peace, and secondly, once again, I state that, pursuant to Paragraph 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, 2 at the third reading, a debate is held in which only corrections to legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled, or a proposal to repeat the second reading - which you have submitted but your reasoning does not concern any part of Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u4	Mr President, I did not submit it. I'll get it. I'm making an announcement that I'm going to hand him over at the end of my performance. I said that at the end of my speech, I'd file a motion for a return by the third reading. [[second]] You can check it from the log. I'm going to file it, but before I say this formula, I have to justify it enough. How I will justify it, Mr President, kindly leave it to me, which I think is my right as a Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u5	And my right as President is to lead you to the matter and to draw your attention to what the Rules of Procedure Act sounds like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u6	Yes, and I am aware of that law and believe that I am following it because I want to return the bill to second reading, I want to explain what amendment and what part of the bill concerns this request, which should be discussed and reformed at second reading, and in order to explain it, you must give me the time to do so. I suppose it won't be a surprise to you that this will be the draft law that concerns the technical provisions, and I'm explaining the problem right now so that each of you can decide whether to support or not to support my proposal to return to second reading. I am following the Rules of Procedure precisely, and I am holding on closely to the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u7	I, too, Mr Member, respect the Constitutional Court's finding, which pointed out that the President is to lead individual speakers to the case according to the various parts of the law in question. So a separate discussion in first, second and third reading. That is why I have warned you that this debate does not belong in the third reading!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u8	Mr President, we differ in our opinion. I would like to put forward a proposal to return to second reading and reformulate Mrs Kovářová's amendment. Mrs Kovářová's amendment concerns the technical reserves of insurance companies. And I, before I present this proposal, must explain to each of you why I consider it worthwhile for this amendment to be reformed. Is there anything unclear about that? I consider it perfectly logical, because I am heading towards what the Rules of Procedure allow for in the third reading to return the bill to second reading. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The calculation shall be made by each counterparty and separately for each type of insurance. In the field of non-life insurance, it is also carried out separately for insurance provisions and provisions for outstanding claims. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the [[9.30 hours]] The probability of default of the special purpose vehicle shall be calculated on the basis of the credit risk associated with the assets held by the special purpose vehicle. The time structure of the basic risk-free interest rate meets all of these criteria, where insurance and reinsurance undertakings are in practice able to obtain interest rates in a risk-free manner; interest rates...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u9	Ambassador, I understand. I will ask the House once again for peace, even in government benches. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u10	Interest rates are reliably determined on the basis of financial instruments traded in a deep active, liquid and transparent market. The relevant risk-free interest rate time structure shall be calculated separately for each currency and maturity on the basis of all information and data relevant for the currency and maturity concerned. It shall be established transparently, cautiously, reliably, objectively and consistently. For each currency and maturity, on the basis of interest rate swaps for the interest rates of the currency, the basic risk-free interest rates adjusted to take account of the interest rate risk shall be derived. For each currency, the rates of government bonds issued in that currency and adjusted taking into account the credit risk of government bonds shall be used for the maturity of which interest swaps do not originate from deep liquid and transparent financial markets, provided that those interest rates of government bonds originate from deep liquid and transparent financial markets. Credit risk adjustments pursuant to Article 44 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The adjustment shall be based on differences between credit risk measures that are reflected in the floating rate of interest swaps and overnight index swaps with the same maturity, where both are derived from deep liquid and transparent financial markets. The calculation of the adjustment shall be based on 50 per cent of the average of this difference in one year. The adjustment is not less than 10 basis points and more than 35 basis points. The principles applied to the extrapolation of the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure are the same for all currencies. This is also true as regards the determination of the longest maturity for which interest rates can be derived in a deep liquid and transparent market and the mechanism for ensuring smooth convergence with the final forward rate. Where insurance or reinsurance undertakings apply Article 77d of Directive 2009/138, the extrapolation shall apply to risk-free interest rates, including the volatility adjustment referred to in that Article. Where insurance or reinsurance undertakings apply Article 77b of Directive 2009/138, extrapolation shall be based on risk-free interest rates without compensatory adjustment. The compensatory adjustments referred to in that Article shall apply to extrapolated risk-free interest rates. The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 1 is stable over time for each measure and is only changed as a result of changes in long-term expectations. The methodology for deriving the final forward rate is clearly set to guarantee the results of scenarios calculated by insurance and reinsurance undertakings. It shall be established transparently, cautiously, reliably, objectively and consistently. The final forward rate shall take into account for each currency the expectations of the long-term real interest rate and expected inflation where such expectations can be reliably determined for the currency. The final forward rate shall not include a forward premium in order to reflect the additional risk of holding long-term investments. The underlying risk-free interest rate structure of the euro-adjusted currency risk-based currencies may be used to calculate the best estimate in respect of insurance or reinsurance obligations expressed in that currency, provided that all of the following conditions are met: the binding nature of the currency ensures that the exchange rate between that currency and the euro does not deviate from a margin which does not exceed 20 per cent of the upper limit of that margin; the economic situation in the euro area and in the area of that currency is similar enough to ensure that the interest rates of the euro and that currency evolve in a similar manner; the currency binding agreement ensures that, in the event of extreme market phenomena, the relative changes in the exchange rate over one year do not exceed the margin set out in point (a) of this Article and that they correspond to the level of reliability referred to in Article 101 of Directive 2009/138; or one of the following criteria is met: the participation of that currency in the European exchange rate mechanism; the existence of a Council decision recognising the binding agreement between that currency and the euro; the incorporation of the binding agreement in the legal conversion of the country in question establishing its currency. For the purposes of point (c), account shall be taken of the financial resources of the parties which ensure the binding nature of the currency. The monetary risk coefficient is negative and corresponds to the cost of collateral against the risk that the value of the investment, expressed in euro, will be reduced in the tied currency as a result of changes in the exchange rate level between the euro and that tied currency. This coefficient is the same for all insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: The methods used in determining the reference portfolios are equally for all currencies and countries. For each currency and for each country, the assets of the reference portfolio shall be valued in accordance with Article 10 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. Financial instruments marketable on markets which are temporarily not in accordance with Article 40 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3 may be included in a portfolio only if it is expected that the market will again comply with these criteria within a reasonable period of time. For each currency and for each country, the asset reference portfolio shall meet all of the following requirements: in the case of each currency, assets are representative of insurance and reinsurance undertakings' investments in that currency in order to ensure the best estimate of insurance and reinsurance obligations expressed in that currency; in the case of each country, assets are representative of insurance and reinsurance undertakings' investments in that country in order to ensure the best estimate of insurance and reinsurance obligations sold in the country's insurance market and expressed in the currency of that country; where they exist, the portfolio is based on relevant indices that are readily available to the public and there are public criteria determining when and how the components of those indices will be changed; The asset portfolio includes all of the following assets: bonds, securitisation and loans including mortgage loans, shares, real estate...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u11	Mr. Ambassador, once again, I'm warning you of paragraph 95. 2. I understand that there is no point in having the second debate that we had together as the President and the one to whom the word has been given, but it is my duty. So you can have a drink in peace, but I'm warning you that your performance contradicts this paragraph.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u12	I am of the opposite opinion, Mr President, because I am indeed heading towards a proposal which I must justify. But I'm sure I can't take your opinion. For the purposes of points (a) and (b), investments by insurance and reinsurance undertakings in collective investment undertakings and other investments offered in the form of funds shall be treated as investments in underlying assets. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) Directive 2009/138 occurs in the less favourable of the two following scenarios in terms of their impact on primary capital: an immediate sustained increase in the mortality rate used to calculate the best estimate by 15 per cent; the immediate increase in mortality rates, expressed as a percentage used to calculate the technical provisions to express mortality over the next 12 months, by 0,15 percentage points. For the purposes of paragraph 1, an increase in mortality rate shall apply only to insurance contracts where an increase in mortality rate results in an increase in technical provisions, taking into account all the following: several insurance contracts relating to the same insured person may be treated as one insurance contract; where the calculation of technical provisions is based on groups of insurance contracts referred to in Article 35, the determination of contracts for which technical provisions increase on the basis of an increased mortality rate may also be based on those groups of contracts and not on individual contracts, unless the result thus obtained is substantially different. As regards reinsurance obligations, the determination of contracts where technical provisions increase on the basis of an increase in mortality rates shall apply only to underlying insurance contracts and shall be carried out in accordance with paragraph 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Directive 2009/138 of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking shall only take into account designated assets whose expected cash flows are intended to replicate the cash flows of the portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations, excluding any other assets. The expected cash flow of the asset is the cash flow of the asset adjusted to take into account the probability of default of the asset corresponding to the element of the basic margin under Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) point (i) of Directive 2009/138, or, where a reliable credit margin cannot be derived from standard statistics, part of the long-term average of the spread over the risk-free interest rate referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2009/138, Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) that Directive. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Directive 2009/138 of the result of the calculation referred to in point (b) of Article 2 (1) of that Directive; Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) that Directive covers only that part of the basic margin which has not yet been taken into account in the adjustment of cash flows from the allocated asset portfolio referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Where available, the relevant indices shall be calculated in a transparent, prudent, reliable, objective and consistent manner. The methods for deriving the basic margin of the bond are the same for each currency and for each country and may differ for government bonds and other bonds. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) point (i) of Directive 2009/138 is based on the assumption that, in the event of failure, 30 per cent of the market value can be recovered. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) Directive 2009/138 is based on data for the last 30 years. Where part of this data is not available, the derived data shall be replaced. The derived data shall be based on available and reliable data over the past 30 years. Data that are not reliable shall be replaced by derived data using this methodology. The derived data are based on prudent assumptions. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) point (i2) of Directive 2009/138 corresponds to the likelihood of weighted losses incurred by an insurance undertaking or reinsurance undertaking if the credit quality step of the asset is reduced and the asset is immediately replaced. The calculation of the expected loss is based on the assumption that the replacement asset meets all of the following criteria: the cash flow of the replacing asset corresponds to the same model as the replaced asset before the credit quality step reduction; the replacement asset belongs to the same asset class as the replaced asset; the replacement asset has the same or higher credit quality step as the replaced asset before the step reduction. The types of insurance referred to in Article 80 of Directive 2009/138 are set out in Annex I to this Regulation. - I don't know if we're gonna get to this annex again during this point, if I can just send it to you in writing. The assignment of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking to the type of insurance reflects the nature of the risks relating to the undertaking. The legal form of the undertaking may not necessarily be decisive in terms of the nature of the risk. Where the technical basis corresponds to the nature of the risks relating to the undertaking, the health insurance obligations operated on a similar technical basis as life insurance and health insurance obligations operated on a similar technical basis as non-life insurance shall be assigned to non-life insurance. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) (a) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. Article 2 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Directive 2009/138 cannot be clearly assigned to the types of insurance listed in the Annex I of this Regulation, on the basis of its nature, shall be included in the type of insurance 32 set out in that Annex. Where an insurance or reinsurance contract covers risks of both life and non-life insurance, insurance or reinsurance obligations, it shall be divided into parts of life and non-life insurance. Where an insurance or reinsurance contract covers risks across each type of insurance set out in the Annex This Regulation, insurance or reinsurance obligations shall, as far as possible, be divided into the relevant types of insurance. Where an insurance or reinsurance contract includes insurance or reinsurance obligations either from health insurance and other insurance or reinsurance obligations, those obligations shall, where possible, be separated. In calculating the technical provisions, and now I come to the main point of justification for my revised amendment, the issue of proportionality is extremely important, sorry, the procedural proposal, not the amendment, is an extremely important issue of proportionality. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall use a method appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of the risks associated with their insurance and reinsurance obligations for the calculation of the technical provisions. When determining whether a specific method for calculating technical provisions is appropriate, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall carry out an assessment covering: an assessment of the nature, extent and complexity of the risks associated with their insurance and reinsurance obligations; qualitative or quantitative assessment of errors in the results of the method in view of the deviation between either the assumptions on which the method is based in relation to risks or the results of the assessment referred to in point (a). [[9.50 hours]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in (a) include any risk that affects the amount, timing or value of the additions and losses of funds to settle insurance and reinsurance obligations for their lifetime. For the purposes of calculating the risk premium, the assessment shall include all the risks referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. The assessment shall be limited to the risks relevant to the part of the calculation of the technical provisions to which the method applies. The method shall be considered to be disproportionate in view of the nature, scale and complexity of the risks if the error referred to in paragraph 1 is: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) lead to distortions of technical provisions or parts thereof which may affect the decision-making or judgement of the intended user of the information, taking into account the value of the technical provisions, unless one of the following conditions is met: there is either no other method with a minor error, unlikely to result in underestimating the amount of technical provisions of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, or this method will result in an amount higher than the amount to which the proportional method would have been obtained, without underestimating the risk contained in the insurance and reinsurance obligations to which it is used. Without prejudice to Article 56 of this Regulation, insurance and reinsurance undertakings may calculate amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles before adjusting these amounts in order to take into account expected losses due to counterparty default as the difference between the following estimates: the best estimate is undoubtedly calculated as gross in accordance with Article 77 (1) of the CRR. Article 2 (2) of Directive 2009/138; the best estimate after taking into account the amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles and without adjustment for expected losses due to counterparty default calculated in accordance with paragraph 2. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings may use methods for deriving unadjusted net best estimate from gross best estimate without explicit cash flow projections on which amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles are based. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall calculate unchanged net best estimate on the basis of homogeneous risk groups. None of these homogeneous risk groups shall cover more than one reinsurance contract or special purpose vehicle, unless such reinsurance contracts or special purpose vehicles ensure the transfer of homogeneous risks. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that I have explained sufficiently the reasons for the procedural proposal which, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I present in the third reading, namely to return the bill to second reading. I'm motivated by it... the wording of both the Government's proposal concerning the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance undertakings and the amendment tabled by Mrs Kovářová. The government proposal envisages taxing all technical provisions of insurance undertakings beyond the mandatory minimum laid down in the Solvency II Directive. The amending proposal by Mrs Kovářová respects this proposal in the field of non-life insurance, but removes this regulation in the field of life insurance. For your information, I will remind you that this concerns about two thirds of our insurance companies' portfolio and about 5.5 million life insurance policies. It is clear from my speech that I support Mrs Kovářová's amendment as a reasonable compromise. But there is one disproportion to the government's proposal. While the government proposal decomposes this tax burden within two years, i.e. The budgetary impact is up to 2021, 2022, Mrs Kovářová's proposal envisages a one-off impact until 2001 (?). I think that we should also consider, with Mrs Kovářová's amendment, which I otherwise very much support, dividing into two budget years, provided that the majority of the House is leaning towards a government proposal, so that the effects of the government's proposal are divided into more years. To do this, of course, we need to read the relevant amendments, whether the amendment to Mrs Kovářová's amendment or the new amendment to the Government proposal. There is no room for third reading, as I have been rightly warned several times by Mr President. This is only possible at second reading if we return this bill. I therefore ask you to support this procedural proposal. It is, of course, an alternative to my second reading proposal, because there, given the small willingness of the coalition to adopt some amendments, I proposed rejecting this proposal. If you support the rejection of this proposal, logically we cannot return the bill to second reading. However, if the rejection is not approved, I would like to ask you to return it to second reading and to try to adapt Mrs Kovářová's amendment to the more appropriate and appropriate way. [[During the speech, Members are primarily speaking loudly to each other on the left.]] I wanted to justify this proposal in the draft Income Tax Act, where I wanted to remind you that my proposal to abolish super-gross wages and fixing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u13	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I'll ask the House for peace! I also need to hear Mr Kalousek, because I also need to clarify with the rapporteur his statement that this is an alternative proposal, i.e. whether the application for a refund before or after the rejection will be put to the vote. Because when I look at the Rules of Procedure, your speech was such that we would vote only if the rejection did not pass. Otherwise, I would leave the vote in order as it should be under the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u14	I will not make this difficult. I will be right here, Mr President, with the Rules of Procedure. Okay. Of course, I agree with voting first on the return to second reading. If this proposal is not adopted, all the more reason to reject this bill. Let me just say a few more words about a super gross wage. Its abolition and fixing of the gross wage rate to 19 percent was already in force in 2012, with effect from 1. 1. 2015. Both government parties today abolished this valid law, but they immediately committed themselves to being the ones who would cancel the super gross wage. And we could even hear from Madam Secretary that in exactly the same way. That it will be abolished and that a 19 percent gross wage rate will be set. A lot of water has flown since then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u15	Ambassador, I must interrupt you to comply with resolution 764 of the Chamber of Deputies on this government bill. [[Member Kalousek: I humbly agree. Thank you for your attention.]] Before that, I will read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 6:30 pm. It is now 10:00 p.m. and according to resolution 764, which states that the vote on amendments, on the draft law as a whole, in the case of the House press 509, the Government's bill amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues will take place on Wednesday 6. 10:00 p.m. Ten o'clock has passed, we have clarified the last procedural proposal by Mr Miroslav Kalousek, i.e. the order of vote, and I would ask after the debate that I am ending... to ask the House to close the debate in the vote, namely the order number eleven... Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u16	I am sorry, Mr Vice-President, I was just saying that I respect the House's decision, but I would like to ask, on which paragraph or article do you propose to close the debate? I don't think that's possible. Before you put it to a vote, I would like to hear on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure of the Act in force in the Czech Republic do you present this proposal? The Rules of Procedure describe precisely the types of proposals that may be heard in the debate. I didn't find any of those. I can be wrong, so I'd like to ask for information that I don't have at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u17	The point is that the debate must be closed before the vote on amendments, and this proposal allows me to conclude the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies from the previous parliamentary periods, where such a procedure has been used several times. [[Members of Michálek and Stanjura report.]] For example, I can quote resolution 326 of the 13th meeting of 8 June 1999, or your proposal, Mr President of the ODS Club, of November 2012 during the negotiations on the so-called 'ODS'. Church restitutions, when you yourself submitted the same proposal to end a debate that was not exhausted. And this proposal has been voted out. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u18	Mr President, I see on the board that 25 Members and Members are enrolled in the debate. You want to vote on the end of the debate, so I, under the Rules of Procedure, object to the President's procedure, and I ask that this objection be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u19	Of course, I will comply with this objection. It is a procedural proposal that we will vote without debate, in vote number eleven. The chairman of the ODS club has proposed an objection to my progress. I'll check you out, I'll ask you for a new registration, please sign up with your ID cards, and we'll vote against my progress. I have begun voting number 11 and I ask who agrees with the opposition to the President's procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 11. Of the present 185 for 83, versus 98. Objection has been denied. We will therefore vote on the end of the debate. Prior to that, the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to present the opinion of the Pirates' MP. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies state in Section 66 that the President will end the debate if other speakers are not entered into the debate. Now we see that the speakers are there, so ending the debate at this point would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. President Faltýnek proposed, referring to the resolution in force in the Chamber of Deputies, which states in Article 1, that the Chamber of Deputies may decide not to vote at some time, and the vote on the proposals submitted will take place at a specified time. For the Steno Protocol, it should be noted that the Member has made this resolution incorrect, as it is resolution 248 of 26 February 1997, not 1999. We recognise, of course, that the validity of autonomous resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies adopted pursuant to Section 1 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act, but we do not think that any autonomous resolution can be interpreted in such a way that it is directly opposed to the Act on Rules of Procedure itself and in contrast to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which I will now talk about. As I have already said, Paragraph 66 (1) of the Rules of Procedure Act states that the President will end the debate if other speakers are not included in the debate. Therefore, if there is an interest in a further debate, it is not possible to proceed against this legal provision, to end the debate and to proceed to a vote on the basis of a mere autonomous resolution which derives its validity from another provision of the same law and does not and cannot be more valid. We remind you that in a similar case in the previous parliamentary term, it was the EET Act, which was dealt with by the Constitutional Court in its decision Pl. ÚS 26/16. In paragraph 58 of this decision of the Constitutional Court, we read: It follows from the citation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies that the restriction or termination of the debate on the draft law reviewed at third reading was not carried out in accordance with the law, namely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, when the Constitution itself or any other part of the constitutional order does not provide details in this respect, both by the Chamber of Deputies and its President. This is despite the fact that the option given by the law to the President to direct the debate has not been used. So this was said by the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. This method of application of the autonomous resolution in question is therefore also, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, illegal, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The Constitutional Court, and this must be added, did not find that the intensity of the infringement was such as to justify the derogation of that law. It is important to draw attention to the significant difference between the situation then and today. In that case, the government faced the efforts of the opposition, which it considered obstructive, first by exhausting the normal instruments that the Rules of Procedure give it to overcome obstructions. In particular, Section 59 (1) and (2) of the Act on Rules of Procedure on the restriction of speaking time may be mentioned here. In the current situation, however, the government did not take such a step, and it is therefore incomprehensible why it went directly consciously to a solution which, in the well-known view of the Constitutional Court, is illegal. If such a breach of legal procedural rules could be considered an extreme solution, it would only be justified if the Chamber of Deputies were completely crippled by a long-term obstruction preventing effective administration. It should then be pointed out that the current situation with its intensity has not brought anything nearer. Nor does it improve what has already been said here that it has been proposed several times that the Chamber of Deputies should act for a longer period of time. It is only after the standard anti-obstruction tools are exhausted and even then we do not get to the result that it is possible to start thinking about more forceful steps at all. Since none of this has happened, the majority's step needs to be assessed as an unjustified attack on the rights of the opposition and, as such, could already achieve the intensity that the Constitutional Court, despite its reputation of restraint, would have caused intervention. We therefore do not question the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which set the time for voting on the Houses of the Press, but it is only possible to implement this resolution if the debate is exhausted and closed at that time, otherwise there will be a clear violation of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In such a case, we see a considerable risk that the passed law will not stand before the Constitutional Court, which would not be the first time in this parliamentary term. [[10.10 hours]] So I wanted to ask that we really respect what the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies say, so that we finish the debate first, because the law does not give the President any competence to end the debate on his own will and put him to a vote. The resolution approved by the Chamber of Deputies as autonomous must be interpreted as being subject to a condition laid down by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also did not end the debate on the will of the President, who can do so only if the debate is exhausted, but I proposed a vote. An objection has been raised against this proceeding and the objection has not been accepted. I would like to remind you that negotiations on this point have been proposed several times on the next day, or even on the next day. also in the other hours allowed by the Rules of Procedure. The veto of two member clubs was used against such a procedure, so there was no interest from these clubs in the debate being held at the next hour, and I must therefore point out that I am proposing and will have the House of Deputies vote on the end of the debate. I understand your objection, I know the Constitutional Court's finding very closely. That is why I also proposed that we will vote on the end of the debate so that we can proceed to the approval of the voting procedure and the vote on individual amendments. Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club... [[Objection from the right.]] prosit, then the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just briefly on how this package was discussed - and put itself in context with the EET. Just in time. The EET was in the Chamber of Deputies for almost a year. This law has been here in the Chamber of Deputies since the end of May. It should be noted that the coalition has not used the possibility of shortening the negotiation period during this period. During the discussion of this law, the holidays you took, dear coalition, were because it was possible to convene the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies during the holidays, to set aside the proper time and discuss this law. You didn't do that. During the negotiations of the EET, it also occurred that Members were limited by their speeches twice ten minutes. You have not taken this step during the discussion of the tax package. It follows that you had to include the House's meetings in the committee week, break the committees' meetings, and disrupt the standard course of the Chamber of Deputies' meetings. For this reason, it must be said that these two things are completely different, and from your side, dear coalition, there has indeed been a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the use of all the possibilities you had, to give it more time, or rather. to limit the debate. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u23	I think that there was no need to limit the debate, because one was registered at the time when the proposal was made for a fixed voting time, and we still had quite a time to discuss it. But please, with priority rights, Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. I wanted three short reactions, and actually two said after I volunteered, my previous speakers. But I think we need to do it again. I designed two things last Friday. On Friday I suggested that we act on Friday outside 14 o'clock, i.e. After 2:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. during those third readings, it was vetoed. There I think there was room for five more hours to debate this point. I also suggested that we discuss this so-called. The tax package was voted and acted on Tuesday, yesterday, and the opposition rejected it, so there was also space from 14.00 to 19.00 to discuss at least this matter. You rejected it, too, so you didn't really want to discuss it. Second point - he has already said it, Mr President. Mr President of the ANO Group of Parliament proposed a solid vote on the law and on amendments indeed at the time when only one speaker was signed up - and he was the Chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek. The fact that you came forward on purpose, another 25, maybe even more, so that's different. Because it has to do with the last thing I want to say. I forgot which, President Gazdík, that we would vote on something, that we could vote on ten minutes after what it is in the House or what it is presented on the agenda, so we could get an ad absurdum, here we could have 100, 200, 300 different applications over and over again and we would never get a vote on the law as a whole. So I think the procedure that the government coalition has chosen was in line with the Constitution, that if you give, as you have already announced, review our procedure to the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court will reject your complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u25	Now, President of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala and then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura as Chairman of the ODS. We are out of the debate and we will therefore proceed in this way. [[Noise on the right.]] Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u26	You'd think he couldn't be surprised by anything after all these years, and he still can. We're going to start thinking, who and when may report to the debate, whether in writing or from the point of view? What in God's name are you talking about, colleagues? Yes, there was a single person registered on Friday morning, that was me. Before opening the debate, I would stress, before opening the debate, President Faltýnek has read his outrageous procedural proposal. Of course, colleagues who wanted to speak again would have made themselves known at the time of the opening of the debate during my discussion paper. There's no doubt about it. And they'd sign up, for example, because a decent chairman, when I'm done talking, would ask if anyone else wants to get out and look around. And you're gonna start telling us that we signed up late? Like when is a person supposed to report to a discussion? Right at the beginning of the announcement, or is he still allowed to sign up at the moment the last one speaks? Don't you want to be a little ashamed of this argument?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u27	Now Chairman of the ODS and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to explain the difference between the opposition's procedure and the government coalition's procedure, and that is, if we have exercised the right of veto to extend the time of the law in third reading beyond that defined by the Rules of Procedure, we have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We did it for good reasons, for reasons not to create another precedent. You can think what you want about it, but we have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What you do is a practice contrary to the law, a procedure contrary to the Rules of Procedure. And you know it. We have a finding by the Constitutional Court which says that it is contrary to the law, namely the Rules of Procedure, to establish a solid vote at a time when it has not yet been possible for all Members who wanted to speak in the debate. So the opposition here is proceeding strictly in accordance with the law, with the Rules of Procedure, you against the Rules of Procedure. And you can't even say you didn't know because there's a Constitutional Court decision. So you can have a majority vote on what you want here, but it's not that you would proceed by having a majority, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, you are knowingly breaking the law. And that's very sad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u29	Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, then Chairman of KDU Marek Výborný. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u30	Thank you. Just two notes. Mr President, I beg you, if you want to comment on the various speeches, please sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u31	Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u32	It's just on the edge. I just want to fix one date that was said. This press came to the House on 13 June, not at the end of May, on 13 June, now I watched, it was delivered to Members, which means it must be ten days before the beginning of the meeting. The first time we could discuss this was about 24 June. Now I don't know if that week of meeting was or wasn't. But that is a clear example of how the government's majority are incapable of ruling, how they are unable to organize the functioning of the House, and then approaches illegal action. President Chvojka quite funny, he is a lawyer, he said: the Constitution has not been violated. We're talking about breaking the law. I think, Mr Chvojka, through Mr President, that you understand the difference. I looked again today at the pledge made by the MP. I would like to ask the Member, President Chvojka, through the Vice-President, to read us the first sentence. We've all promised to uphold the Constitution and the Law. At the same time, he knows the Constitutional Court's decision, which, while not abolishing the law, clearly said it was illegal, quoted it exactly here by President Michálek. Then try to put these two sentences together as a lawyer, Mr President, through the Vice-President. You swore, promised to uphold the law, the Constitutional Court said that this procedure was illegal, and you want to repeat it. Don't you feel a contradiction? If a constitutional complaint is filed, if it is granted, that is another matter. That's not up to us either. But that's illegal, that's already been decided by the Constitutional Court. That's not the opposition's opinion. [[Strongly.]] This is the opinion of the highest authority in law in the Czech Republic. And I'm surprised that someone with legal education here is fencing because it wasn't constitutional. We don't know if it's unconstitutional. But that it is against the law, we do know that, Prime Minister Chvojka. So on June 13th, just next Wednesday, it will be five months for the ten laws that are within this law. And it seems so incredibly long to you. Why didn't you bring it up in February? A long time ago, the law would have been valid and effective in some way. Of course I do. We also made it clear that our aim was not to prevent it from being accepted, we are realistic and we know what the conditions are. Our aim was to adopt at least some compromise proposals, even those which won the majority in the Committee on Budgets. Look at these opinions. We will have 50 votes, and you know how many times the Committee has not adopted a resolution on those 50 proposals, even though there is a majority of the government there, as in every committee. 34 times. In 34 cases, the Committee on Budgets has not adopted a resolution. I would assume that the government majority is able to decide which amendment will support and which will not. Here it was evident that even within the government majority there was no clear political view of the specific issues of specific paragraphs. 34 times! I consider it a rarity. And Friday after 2:00 p.m., Prime Minister Chvojka. I have been here not as long as President Filip, I am here for the third term. I remember the one time we acted on Friday after 2:00 p.m., when the hundreds of speeches were made by your colleagues, I think you weren't here at the time, you were in person, and we acted on six days and six nights straight. That's right. We were here Friday afternoon. One single case. And we even have to say that that's when we passed the constitutional test. And it was a heated situation, six days and six nights straight. It's not true, it's always been a break from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. So it was 23 hours a day. The infamous David Rath trained us here at 2:00, 3:00, 4:00, 5:00 in the morning. I remember. He came up sleepy, smiling, you all applauded him. He always came and said: the night shift is here, I suggest we interrupt this item by three years, two years, six months, five months, those proposals were dozens. And we made it. We have applied the Rules of Procedure. Yes, we have limited the debate under the Rules of Procedure to two or ten minutes. Everyone who wanted to, and believe me, it was tiresome, they talked. And those who had priority rights were not limited to twice ten minutes. We made it. And then we voted. And at that time, I will remind you, the House of the Six Days and the Six Nights were governed by three ladies, only in three they carried out those six days and six nights. And we have not broken the Rules of Procedure. And you concluded on November 1st, after ten hours of reading ten laws, that is, after one hour per law, you've had enough. I'm going back to what I said. You are incapable of ruling and unable to organise the House of Deputies program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u33	Now with Marek's priority right Výborný, then Minister of Culture and then Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think that is very clear. When I look at the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, there are several lawyers sitting there, Minister Vojtěch Adam, and a lawyer in the government. Come here and say it's not a violation of the law. We have the rules of procedure, it's the law, we all know it's a violation of the law. Even Professor Válková, by your means, could say absolutely nothing else. So, I must say, I am fascinated by the sovereignty of President Chvojka, who will come here and talk about how the Constitutional Court will decide. If you're sure, I don't know where you're getting it. I really don't know where you're getting it. I think that the will of the government of the ANO movement, social democracy and KSČM will violate the law, i.e. the Rules of Procedure, we all know here. All of them. To what extent it will be or will not be unconstitutional, let us really leave it to the Constitutional Court. But here I would like to say for the KDU-ČSL, there are ten of us, and on this point, unfortunately, we could only speak four, in the order of a few minutes. So if this is not to be a denial of the right of Members to comment on the proposed law in the debate, I don't know what you think it should be anymore. And we repeatedly and publicly respect that there is a government majority, that the government majority has come up with some tax bill, but we have repeatedly publicly called on the Minister of Finance: come sit down at the negotiating table, let's talk about the amendments, let's find some compromise that you then vote on, but we will be able to move on and there will not be those proposals that clearly go against the interests of parents and families, whether it be the question of the cadastral, whether it be the question of life insurance and so on. It's been repeatedly pointed out here. Yet, Madam Secretary, and she said it quite openly, publicly, it's traceable in public resources, I push through it, the government pushes it to strength. So if you want not to bend this way, but to break the law, I think that the House, Parliament, on the contrary, should be a role model for citizens and the public in this. I am convinced that what we are doing is a disgrace to this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u35	Now Lubomír Zaorálek and then Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u36	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So I am neither a lawyer nor a constitutional lawyer, yet I feel that the situation is quite understandable to me. And I say this also as someone who knows that there is a need to defend and respect the interests of the opposition, because I have often also sat there in opposition benches, even participating in obstruction, that is true, and I have been involved in this. And when we did that, I did it because I was convinced that these things were absolutely fundamental, such as religious restitution and the way they were treated. At the time, I was convinced that the country's fundamental rules were changing ruthlessly against how we behaved towards the people of the 1990s, so I thought that this was a completely fundamental thing and that we had the right to obstruction. It was a crucial ideal confrontation for me, and then the obstruction was over. I'll take it. This coalition fight with the opposition. And today, to tell you that I have a clear conscience, it's just that, as much as I'm not a constitutional lawyer, one thing is clear to me. If there is a government here, it is able to enforce the majority in the House, so it has the right to enforce the budget, that is simply based on the outcome of the elections, so it has the right to enforce the tax changes to be included in that budget. I think that is the interest of the Constitution and the interest of democracy in this country, and it is the interest of the public. As the public, he wants the budget to be adopted, and when someone has a majority to be able to implement it. This corresponds to the outcome of the elections. What's wrong with constitutionality? I think that's the basic thing. Or is this House supposed to stop? [[10.30 hours]] [[Very loud:]] I don't like this House anymore. I'm listening here for two hours to one speech, three hours to one speech. I tried to watch it for a while, so I could answer it wisely, and then I found out that it wasn't worth it, like a bunch of my colleagues. This is not the normal conduct of the House! This is something that brings down our dignity. Is this constitutional? Is this consistent with any laws, that the House looks so ridiculous, that it can't be watched? Here I think the opposition is calling for its rights, but she's actually reducing the House level, her public respect. And I repeat, I'm sure the public wants the budget adopted. I'm sure she wants most of us here to have the opportunity to assert her will. This is absolutely in line with democratic principles and with the result of elections! What do you want? To continue with this clown shop? To listen here for two hours, how does someone introduce me to how they can read? Does that make sense to you? Is that what you want to defend in public? I don't understand. So I'm telling you, don't worry, there's most of them. Don't be afraid of her, she'll assert her will. Once you've formed a coalition after the election, you'll also need to enforce what you wanted. If we block this, politics in this country will be blocked, it will disgust everyone! After all, when you have an election result, you have the opportunity to realize what you wanted! And we want to implement this right! I say that in all decency, correctness, respect for the opposition. Do not conjure here with debates about the Constitution and the Law when you violate the fundamentals in this country! - the opportunity to rule at all, the opportunity to show some will! That's what's going on! And I'm tired of listening to you recite for hours! So allow us to approve what we have the votes for, and I believe that every judge, including the Constitutional Court, if they judge it, will give us the truth!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u37	Mr. Václav Klaus actually volunteered. Since I already have his apology on my desk, I will give him the floor on a point of fact, because my proposal to end the debate has not yet been decided. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u38	So I would actually respond to my previous speaker, the Minister of Culture. I understand that the outcome of the election is to be respected, and the government is trying to enforce what it wants. So am I, when I want to lower my taxes, I'll be reluctant to look at someone blocking the House for three quarters of a year. I can take all this. But I don't understand why you're yelling at us, Mr. Zaorálek! [[Laughs in the hall.]] Your argument isn't stronger if you give it an extra 60 decibels. It doesn't work like that. So I would like to say that this law is not to be adopted, I do not want to increase taxes. But let us seriously talk calmly about how the Rules of Procedure should look, so that everyone has the right to speak out, criticize the opposition, but at the same time at some point in the future, hypothetically, that the government will also not establish itself, will never accept any budget, and someone here will be four years as a talk etc. That's not okay either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u39	Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Fiala, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u40	I must say, then, that I will keep the audio recording of the Minister of Culture of the Zaorálek for those future cases where he will seriously urge us once again to lower our voice and speak normally. Then I always play the soundtrack, including breaking sanitary noise standards. But I was gonna say, I wanted to react to his performance with something else. Of course, the government has the right to assert its will. Of course, the government has the right to rule, but of course it has to follow the law. This is the fundamental principle of the rule of law that the government is responsible for complying with the law. The government can't say: we have a problem, so we break the law, we deliberately break the law, and the problem is solved. That's not a rule of law, Minister of Culture! And I'm sorry, that's a major priority. I respected it when the church restitutions were so fundamental to you that you were building in an unimaginable way, so we had to endure it, too. But I assure you that the nationalization of the 5.5 million life insurance policies that our citizens have concluded in good faith in the decent behavior of this state, in the polite belief that if it is a product supported by the state, so that no one will recognize it from the other side, it is absolutely as fundamental to me as to you those religious restitutions. And you had a choice. You didn't compromise those church restitutions, you didn't offer an option, you just didn't want to accept the approval of this law. We have clearly offered a decent political agreement here, an extremely correct political agreement, and I will repeat it once more. It concerned only three amendments: the 5.5 million insurance policies, the increase in fees at the cadastral office and the taxation of crates, not lotteries - the amendment to Dolejš-Onderka. For these three amendments, we were willing to conclude a simple political agreement, and this law, yes, could have been voted long ago. That's right. And you, instead of a fair political agreement, which may be part of governance - we may agree that political agreements and compromises are part of governance - you have gone to power and to violation of the law instead of this political agreement. You don't do that! And when you do, you have to count on the consequences. I will probably repeat this for several weeks when I present the opinion of the MP before the final vote. - I hope not, of course it depends on you, you will vote on the amendments, you have the majority, but I do not understand why you preferred breaking the law over the agreement. Otherwise, I'd like to remind you that when colleague Stanjura reminded your six times 23 hours of obstruction, we've endured it. Yes, we've reduced the discussion performance to two or ten minutes, but it's been six times 23 hours of negotiations. The Social Democratic opposition was so incompetent at the time that some colleagues here were reciting Lebanese poetry as part of their speech to tax laws. Yet, no president at the time allowed them to remember that they were not speaking to the point. I was glad because the Lebanese poetry was listening to me much better than if they were speaking to the point. But that's just the way it was back then. I spoke consistently and only on the question concerning the taxation of technical provisions on the proposal to reform Mrs Kovářová's amendment concerning the taxation of technical provisions. Yet I was admonished, I guess, if I count well, about 14 times. So sort of compare our approach and your approach. You just don't give a damn about the law! You broke it. You broke the oath you took because you knowingly broke the law instead of making a deal! I merely remind you, Mr President, that before the final vote, after voting in favour of the amendments, I call for a 20-minute recess for a meeting of the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u41	Now I don't understand what time you want that break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u42	All changers are voted and before the final vote, please take a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u43	Yes, I'm marked - 20 minutes break for PK TOP 09 before the final vote. Now Vice-President Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u44	Mr President, I will turn to Minister Zaorálek and turn to him directly, not through you, because I am speaking to him as a member of the government now, not as a Member. Secretary of Zaorálek, even if you scream twice as loud, you won't be right. And you won't be right about the content argument you used, and I want to remind you that. You said that the government has the right to make a budget, and it has the right to raise taxes and that there is some kind of equality between them. And that's just not true. In the Czech Constitution and in the Czech legal system, as it is in other European countries, there is an advantage for the government, i.e. executive power in the discussion of the budget. There is such an advantage in our country. It shall be carried out in a different manner, both in time and in terms of the type of approval. And there's one good reason. And that makes it different from the tax approval. The budget is meant to allow the government to rule, and the budget is approved for a year, while any tax increase has a long-term impact until it is amended by another law. And that's why you can't put an equal in between. The increase in taxes is much more serious from this point of view. And that's why it's standard law. And it doesn't have the benefits of the budget. So don't mix the pears with the apples, don't mess with the public, and maybe even government MPs. Yes, you have certain advantages in the budget as a government, they give you the Constitution, they give you laws. It's all over Europe. But with taxes, that doesn't apply! Because taxes have a long-term impact on citizens, and this must be discussed as a standard law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u45	I now have Mr Marian Jurečka's factual comment. And please note that I will proceed in accordance with § 59 para. 4. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u46	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to make a technical remark and respond to the speech of Minister Zaorálek. And I'd like to ask you a question, and I'm going to give you a parallel right here. I was in 2016 in February at the meeting of the Coalition Council, where the President of this House Jan Hamáček, today's chairman of social democracy, and he was at the coalition council, there are several commemorators of the meeting, he said that he would not immediately agree to set a fixed day at that rather heated debate and a fixed time for voting at third reading, but he said that he proposed the inter-step to allow other Members in the debate to speak for a maximum of two, a maximum of ten minutes. So I'm asking you, Minister, why don't you take this step as a government coalition as well? And I also don't understand that when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš stood here about a year ago, he said he wanted to seek consensus with all political parties on key issues. And it has been said here several times that there is a possible consensus in consideration of some amendments. And what I really don't see as defendable in this tax package is that we say that all charges within the real estate register, that is, refinancing the mortgage and changes in the household mortgage bank will pay by 100% with an increase. That's definitely not fair. And I didn't see the will of the coalition government to come to the opposition and say, "Let's have some fun, which things you'll support from the tax package and which you won't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Now Petr Bendl with a factual remark. Then Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u48	Have a good day. Once, a few years ago, I experienced when the Chamber of Deputies did not give us the opportunity to comment on the issue that moved the Czech Republic at the time, because we wanted to get off here, and the left-wing majority did not allow us to vote at that time, not one of the captains of the time, to speak, for example, in a short time at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I was walking out of here cranky, and I thought, "Yes, I don't think I have the right. The House doesn't care about the governor's opinion back then. And we left here without at least one of us getting out of here. Today I have experienced the possibility that I cannot comment on the present law. And I stress that I'm only logged in once. I am among the twenty-four who wanted to speak here, and you have taken the right to speak to this law from me by your vote. Just because there's more of you. I think this is a principle that cannot be accepted. I have made a full commitment to the debate. And there isn't a paragraph that says I can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u49	Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we're in the debate. Indeed, the threat that the debate is gone at ten o'clock. The debate has been opened in at least two ways. Firstly, the Minister of Government has spoken, thus opening the debate to a point. Two. Members shall report with factual observations and shall be given the floor. This means, I suppose, that when we agree with the priority rights, it will be Mr Feri, President Rakušan, Mr Munzar etc, because the debate... Yes, there was some House resolution to vote at 10:00. That's over and done with. It's 10.45. Unfortunately, the House didn't fill it. It happens sometimes. I think this is a mistake - now I don't know who, whether the President or someone else. I think it's long gone. We can't make a resolution. [[unintelligible]] And I am really glad and I want to thank the majority of the government for allowing and allowing this debate. Minister Zaorálek said we couldn't hear the rumors. Minister, I take it personally. Try to look at the screen recording, I've divided it according to the individual bills that your government wants to change, I think I was completely material. I have supported some of the steps, I have criticised some of them, or I have highlighted some amendments. Yes, it may be tiring for some. But I didn't make up ten laws in one press. And I talked to everyone. Maybe you didn't have enough to watch or have other responsibilities, but I'm sure if your coworkers print it out, we'll be able to have a rational political debate about each of those laws, about every part of the performance I've had here. I'm absolutely sure of that. And I'm sure my fellow Members from our MPs did the same. So if you say you can't stand the rumors, I don't know what to talk about. When we speak factually, specifically, we advocate amendments, we support some, we do not support some. I think it was a normal debate. Relatively short for ten laws under discussion. But I'm saying, it's only next Wednesday that it'll be five months when it's only come to the House. It's not the opposition's fault. And you can't tell yourself because you have a majority that our job is four years of silence, silence, and a cheerful vote for government proposals. Our voters just don't want it! I already said that last week. If your constituents wish to raise taxes, you grant their wishes, I respect that. Our voters don't want a tax increase, we fulfill their wishes, and we do everything we can to convince you not to do so. This is a normal political struggle for taxes, right - left. Yes, the left wants to raise taxes, wants to draw all possible reserves. The right prevents it. What's abnormal about that? Why would it be funny at the House? What would be ridiculous is what you're calling for. That was the National Front. A comrade came in, said something, and all the comrades were up for it. Then, one day, two of them got held up, and they were heroes of the anti-communist resistance. That's kind of what it was. That would be ridiculous. But if we're here defending the interests and opinions of our constituents, that's not funny. We can disagree, we can raise arguments for and against, but it's not ridiculous. It's funny when most of the House can't organize the House. And it's ridiculous and sad when she breaks the law, instead of better organizing it, or making an agreement with the opposition so that it applies to 1. 1. And the budget. President Fiala spoke of it. The advantage of every government is that only the lower House of Parliament is discussing the budget. That's true. Two. The draft budget for next year will also take place in a standard manner. I am sure that on November 27 there will be a second reading, the sea will be heard, many dozens of amendments, and I am sure that on November 27th, if the government does not do this to show me that I am wrong, the second reading will be concluded, and on Wednesday, a week later, I now feel that it is December 4th according to the timetable, we will vote in the third reading and finally the budget will be approved because the government has a majority here. There is no link between the tax package and the budget for 2020. We have never said, as opposition, or at least as citizens' democrats, that we will not support the budget on the ground that the tax package is not approved. On the contrary. The amount isn't...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u51	I will ask the House for peace of mind to come to a conclusion, i.e. a vote on the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u52	No, Mr. Vice-President. We're in a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u53	I know we're in the debate! Nor did any minister have to open, as you said here, because the debate has not yet been closed for the vote, even though it has been proposed. I have so far respected the Rules of Procedure! [[A round of applause, laughter, and entertainment from the Pirates' desks.]] Yes, I have not committed any infringement of the Rules of Procedure as President until now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u54	Mr Vice-President, I've already asked you once that if you want to comment on the performances of your colleagues, please sign in and someone will be running it for a while instead of you. You've already acknowledged it, you've apologized, and now you've repeated it. So I'm asking you a second time. If you want to respond to me, I'm sure you have a way to do it. Not by using you to sit by a microphone and run a meeting. I have no reason to deny you any right to react to what I say. I merely stated that we were in the debate, I did not accuse anyone of violating the Rules of Procedure. We have said that this motion for a resolution, which you personally proposed, is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. We insist, and you may think that's not true. But we believe that in that case, we are right. I will return to the alleged link between next year's state budget and the tax package. It is clear from the state budget schedule that the state budget will be approved before the House Press 509 is finally approved. You can ask me how I know. We have most of it in the upper chamber, and I was just debating it with my colleagues. You might consider it a hypothesis, but we consider it a very probable hypothesis. Today is November 6th. Undoubtedly, if the Senate decides to reject the bill or return it with amendments, we cannot vote on that in the first week of December, from legal time limits. This itself condemns the government's failure to link the House's 509 press with the draft state budget for which the government has a safe majority. So we will not be obstructing, of course we will make amendments, of course we will justify them and we will vote on all the amendments. We will vote in a special vote against the state budget because we voted first reading against the basic parameters of the state budget. So the state budget, although bad from our point of view, is not in any danger and will simply be valid and effective from 1 January next year. I think we can agree on that, and we don't have to throw the House press 509 over the state budget. So I'd like to ask that those colleagues who are logged in get a chance. Many will perform - and now I speak for our club - with something that has not yet been mentioned here, explain in detail some of the amendments they have tabled personally or on behalf of our club, or make some new procedural proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u55	Mr. Vít Rakušan now. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I am taking advantage of the principle of factual comment because there is a debate going on. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for reassuring us that you are not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, we may have a different opinion on something. You haven't broken it yet. I hope there was no promise for those moments to come that you're about to break it in a little while. I'm sure that wouldn't be good. And for another, I would like to thank you very warmly now, as President, for finally deciding to honor the fact that we really have the right to speak, for not interrupting the debate in any way, that continues to run. It is probably an awareness that the Rules of Procedure really make sense in the House, and we thank you very much for that. The debate is running, we have ten hours long gone, and I think it will soon reach those who are logged in in a proper discussion. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u57	Now Dominik Feri's point of fact. Then Mr. Chairman of the club ČSSD Jan Chvojka. Please take the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u58	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you see, I'm logged in, and I don't count on a word being given to me, which is why I'm actually speaking. We, as opposition Members, have put a very simple, simple political offer on the table. Come and approve some of the selected constructive, sensible and good amendments and we can come to an agreement. We're gonna save ourselves the painful discussional suffering here. This offer has not been accepted. It was rejected in the first round of the hearing. And I think it would be appropriate for all parties involved to have a further meeting, a further round of negotiations, and I therefore suggest that we discontinue this law until 25 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u59	That's a procedural proposal, but it's second in order. First, then, we will vote on the procedural proposal to interrupt the debate, Mr Member. But I'm gonna run out of actual notes. Now, therefore, the de facto remark made by the Member and the Chairman of the ČSSD club Jan Chvojka. Then there is the factual comment of colleagues Michálek, Vácha and Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor. I was just going to appeal to the fact that we already have 10.55 minutes, and sometime before the tenth time, I already expected that we would be voting on the end of the debate precisely so that we could keep what we agreed on in those ten, that is, voting on the amendments and on the law as a whole. Therefore, please take my appeal to vote, as agreed, and to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek, for real. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. This is my last show, I don't want to delay. We didn't do any obstructions, nor do we apply, nor do we want obstructions to be pressured to be approved by someone. I just really wanted to point out that there's a risk that the Constitutional Court will find that law unconstitutional or contrary to the law because of what we've argued here. The Constitutional Court has already judged this once. And I think it would be fair to say this risk here, because I think we all want to avoid the situation where tobacco companies, alcoholic companies and gambling rooms will sue the Czech Republic to return illegal money, and we paid them some compensation from taxpayers' money. So now that there's a tax change, in my opinion, it should be done properly, so that it doesn't turn out to be like church restitutions, where we warned you that there's a violation of the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court actually canceled it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u63	Now, Mr Marek the Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Well, I've got to get back to the performance of Minister Zaorálek. I'm mild in nature, but I got worried, Minister, when you yelled at us like that. And you were talking about us lowering the standards of political culture here. So come here at this table and say, by name, who of the KDU-ČSL Members has performed here under this law, but also others, and has somehow reduced political culture in this House. Come here, come say it by name. When you are so presumptuous, you turn to the opposition as a whole, so come and tell me who of the KDU-ČSL Members has been acting like this. I think it would be good to really bring this situation to a solution. I would consider it reasonable for them to meet at this point in time for a quick meeting of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs and parties in this House with Minister Schillerová and try to find a solution to this stalemate situation, which we have clearly come into. I think this is the only sensible solution. If we don't sit and talk, we're not gonna get to any decent solution. I would therefore like to put forward a procedural proposal for the suspension of negotiations for 30 minutes on the deliberations of the parties' Presidents and the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament and of Minister Schillerová. I believe this may be the way to get to the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u65	This is the third procedural proposal that I can put to the vote without debate, but I have some outstanding factual remarks, at least František Vácha, Vojtěch Munzar and Pavel Kováčik. My colleague Vácha has been logged in, I've reported him, you have the floor to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't understand. So I'm not really part of the debate, nor am I counting on volunteering, so I probably wouldn't, but I don't understand what's going on here right now. I'm not a lawyer. That means if someone here is saying that some Members are going to break the law by voting, could lawyers, like from the coalition, explain to me what that means? So you're saying, the coalition says that if they need something, they can break the law. [[11.00 hours]] That means our citizens - how are they supposed to explain this to the citizens, the people at work now? If they really need something, can they break the law? Like if I really need to get out of the house fast on Highway 250 and nothing happens to me? The secretary here is planning to vote and break the law. Is that breaking the law? It breaks the law. Can I not pay taxes and break the law? The Minister of Health is a lawyer, he'll probably vote and probably break the law. Can I not pay my health insurance and the insurance company won't send an executor after me? May I break the law? Can our citizens begin to break the laws when most of the Chamber of Deputies, by voting, violate our laws? Please, at least the coalition lawyers, answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u67	Thank you for keeping time, but I have three procedural proposals before me, which are voted without debate. Allow me, then, because they are both from the coalition and from the opposition, so that I may have them voted out. And we will vote in that order. First, a procedural proposal relating to a 30-minute interruption for a meeting of club presidents. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal, which is counter-proposal against the end of the debate, is the proposal by Dominik Feri, which says that we will interrupt negotiations on this point by 25. 11. If I understood you correctly, Mr. Ambassador. And the third proposal is the original one, which means that the debate will be closed and we will vote on the procedure for voting first of all. And after this procedural debate or vote, we will know what the will of the House is. The first vote to suspend for 30 minutes - it is Mr Marek Výborný's proposal. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your I.D. cards and we'll vote number 12. I have begun voting number 12 and I ask who is in favour of the suspension for half an hour at the meeting of the club and party chairmen. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 12 of the 183 present for 76, against 89. The motion was denied. The second proposal, Dominik Feri, is to adjourn this press and this point in the 36th meeting at 25. 11. I started voting number 13. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 13 of the 184 present for 79, against 100. The motion was denied. The next proposal is a proposal to close the debate, which we will decide in voting number 14, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 14 of the 187 present for 103, against 84. The motion was accepted. I am closing the debate on the 509 press at third reading. Before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, I register an application with priority rights of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek, and I respect that he has already proposed a break once before the final vote in favour of voting in favour of the amendments. Yes, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u68	Thank you, I won't hold up. I just wanted to ask politely why I fell off the list for the debate. My application with non-preferential rights has not been exhausted. I feel like I'm still logged in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u69	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, because I took it so hard that you said you would make a procedural motion at the end of your speech. So I respect and I'm sure you'll be included in the login list. So I will now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that before we proceed to the vote on the procedure, we should actually vote on the procedural proposal, as Mr Kalousek put it here, and this is about the proposal to repeat the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u71	Yes, that's right. This was the procedural proposal that was made in the third reading of the debate, which is voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. We will decide in the vote number 15, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. [[Objection from the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'm sorry. I'll check you out. I declare the vote number 15 misguided. The number of entries has stabilized. We will decide on the proposal to repeat the second reading presented in the debate in the vote number 16, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 16 of the 186 present for 82, against 101 Members, the proposal was rejected. Let's make another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u72	So now we can vote on the voting procedure. I propose that the voting procedure approved by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 9 October be approved. This voting procedure is extensive, but it is logical. It divides individual votes into groups with the fact that the first group is a motion for rejection which has been tabled and then a proposal for legislative technical amendments. And other groups are according to individual laws that are changed. So the second group, these are the amendments to the Real Estate Tax Act, the third group of proposals for amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Reserve Act, the fourth group of proposals containing amendments to the Consumer Tax Act, the fifth group of amendments to the Act on Administrative Charges, the sixth group of amendments to the Act on Stabilisation of Public Budget, the seventh group of amendments to the Gaming Tax Act, the eighth group of amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, the ninth group of amendments to the Senate Act on Income Tax, the tenth group of amendments containing amendments to the Gaming Act and the last vote on the bill as a whole. This is the draft procedure, as approved by the Committee on Budgets, and you all have this procedure, it's House Press 509/4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u73	I thank the rapporteur for the procedure. Now Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u74	Hello. I have announced in the general debate that we support the division according to individual bills, at the same time that I will try at least to propose a more logical alignment of specific amendments. So allow me to draw up the counterproposal for the proposal made by the rapporteur. [[11.10 hours]] We would be the first to vote on the motion to reject. As a second, we would vote on the proposal for legislative technical amendments which were made in the third reading, I think it is Mr Ferjenčík, if memory does not deceive me. This is according to paragraph 95 of the CRR. 2. Then we would vote on Amendment F, which is Mrs Krutáková, who concerns the exemption from real estate tax for groups of trees. The fourth would be the vote on Mr Munzar's Amendment P4, in simple terms, on automated filing of real estate tax. Then we come to the group which concerns the Income Tax Act and the Reserves Act for the determination of the income tax base. So we would first vote on Amendment O1, namely O1.1 and O1.2 together. At the same time, if the O1 proposal is adopted, there are non-voting proposals under C1, H4, A.A, O2, O3 and O4. It is Mr Martínek's proposal, which - in a simple way - cancels the proposed tax on winnings. As the sixth vote, I propose that we vote on point C1, point C1.1. and C1.2. at the same time, when C1 is voteable, as I said a moment ago, only if the amendment which we would vote on in the fifth vote under O1 is not adopted. However, if this proposal C1 is adopted, the proposals H4, A, O2, O3 and O4 will continue to be unvoted. This is Mr Votava's proposal, which also abolishes the taxation of winnings. As the seventh vote, the vote would be on Amendment H4. As I said a moment ago, this vote is only possible if neither O1 nor C1 are accepted. If C1 were to be adopted - and that we would vote together - sorry if H4 were to be adopted, we would vote H4.1. and H4.2, the non-voting designs A.A.2 to A.A.7 and A.A.9 to A.A12, O2 and O3. This is Mr Bartošek's amendment, which abolishes the taxation of winnings outside the Minister's favourite receipt lottery, where it proposes to leave the government's proposal for tax winnings. As the eighth, we would vote on the amendment under A.A. as a whole. It is voteable if previous proposals have not been adopted, i.e. O1, C1, H4. If H4 is accepted, then only A.A.1 to A.A8 can be voted on. [[In written background only "a"]] If A.A. is adopted as a whole, the O2 and O3 proposals are also unvoted. It is the amendment recommended to the House, which adopted the Committee on Budgets, which raises the limit for taxing the prizes from 100 thousand to 1 million. CZK and costs for individual players are deducted from winnings. This means that the tax base must be higher than a million and will be set by deducting costs from winnings. As the ninth point, we would vote on the amendment under O2, with a total of O2.1 to O2.5, and it is only possible to vote if one of the proposals O1, C1, H4, A.A. If O2 is adopted, this is the proposal I am talking about, it is also an unvoting O3 and O4 proposal. The O2 proposal is Mr Martínek's proposal, which actually says that costs will be deducted from the tax base for winnings. - I'm sorry to all the authors, I've always tried to describe it in one sentence, so I don't read the whole proposal. As a tenth, we would vote on the amendment under O3, namely O3.1. to O3.5, which is only voteable if one of the proposals O1, C1, H4 is not adopted. A.A.a or O2. If this amendment O3 is adopted, the unvoting O4 proposal will be adopted. The O3 proposal is also Mr Martínek's proposal, which is similar to the O2 proposal, which means that from the tax base of winning...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u75	I'm asking the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u76	I'm really asking you not to disturb me. The procedure is rather complicated. So this is the equivalent of the amendment under O2, which means that it also concerns the proposal that costs should be deducted from the basis for taxing wins, it is only regulatoryly adjusted differently than O2. As the eleventh vote, we would vote on Amendment O4, take the eleventh with a reserve, this number may change. O4 shall be put to the vote only if one of the O1, C1, O2 or O3 proposals is not adopted. Once again, this is Mr Martínek's proposal, which raises the limit for taxing winnings to a sum of 10 million. Kč. As the twelfth, I propose that we vote on Mr Ferjenčík's amendment to the N5 proposal, which actually proposes taxation on the sale of shares, shares or a trading share of over 20 million. CZK a year. As the thirteenth, we would vote on Amendment Q1, points Q1.1 to Q1.10, Mrs Langšádlová. It concerns the abolition of the supergross wage, the abolition of the solidarity premium and the adjustment of a flat gross wage tax of 19 per cent. As the 14th, the amendment under the letter K1 was tabled by me. It concerns support for electromobility, reduction of depreciation time for electric or hybrid cars, reduction of depreciation time for charging stations and reduction of tax to half a percent of one percent per month for corporate cars and for private purposes. I then propose that we vote on the proposal of Mr E3 Mr Hrnčíř, which concerns an increase in the threshold for occasional income from the amount of 30 000 to 36 000 per year. We would then vote on the E2 proposal by Mr Hrnčíř, which concerns a reduction in the income tax rate for legal persons with a income of up to 3 million. CZK per year at 16 percent. Then we actually have three amendments, which are identical in terms of content. These are amendments to Mr Kalousek's Q2 proposals, Mr Ferjenčík's N4 and Mr Bartošek's H3 proposals, and they all abolish the taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies from the government's proposal. The amendment B2 would then be voted on, points B2.1 to B2.5 by Mrs Kovářová. This proposal includes narrowing down the taxation of the technical provisions of non-life insurance undertakings. We would then also vote on Mrs Kovářová's amendment to letter B3, which concerns the adjustment to the taxation of technical provisions. Then - this is a change, Mr rapporteur - we would vote on the proposal by Mr Ferjenčík, Mr N1, concerning the increase of the basic discount on the taxpayer to 30,000 per year. If proposal N1 is adopted, then proposals E1, N2, M2 will be unvoting. We would then vote if it was not adopted, on the proposal of Mr Skopeček's M2 - that is the logical link, Mr rapporteur, when I think that 30,000 should be sooner than 27 - so after point N1, we would vote on the amendment of Mr Skopeček's M2 which also includes an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer of CZK 30,000. We would then vote on the E1 proposal of Mr Hrnčíř, which represents - which includes an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer to CZK 27,400 per year. It is only possible to vote if the proposal is not adopted under the letter N1 of Mr Ferjenčík or the proposal M2 of Mr Skopeček. If the E1 proposal is adopted, then there will be no voting proposal N2, which I would otherwise suggest that we include it as E1, it is the proposal of Mr Ferjenčík, who concerns the increase of the basic discount on the taxpayer to CZK 27,000. - That means, that's four proposals to raise the basic rate in order of 30, 30, 27, 4 and 27,000. [[11.20 hours]] And then, and that is the last proposal in the block that concerns income tax and change, to say exactly, the Reserves Act for the determination of the tax base, and it is the amendment under letter D, namely points D1 to D2 of Mr Koten, which concerns an increase in the limit of tangible assets from CZK 40 to CZK 100,000. [[Searches in the background]] If the rapporteur is following me, I believe that at this point I have exhausted all the amendments from the third group and we can move on to group four, which is a group containing amendments containing amendments to the Consumer Tax Act. First of all, we would vote on the 25th vote if it were for all the previous ones, we would vote on Amendment M3, points M3.1, M3.2 of Mr Skopeček's amendment, which concerns the reduction of the proposed increase in excise duty on alcohol. For the sake of clarity, this is not a reduction in the current rate, but it is an increase in the existing rate less than that contained in the government proposal. Then vote number twenty-six - amendment under I - I1 and I2 of Mr Holomčík, raising the limit on domestic production of beer without excise duty from 200 litres to 2,000 litres. We would then vote - and this is a change again, Mr rapporteur - on Mr Ferjenčík's amendment to the N6 amendment, which extends the increase in excise duty on tobacco up to two steps every six months. And then we would vote on the amendments under letter K2, namely K2.1 to K2.5, when I propose an increase in excise duty in the outlook for four more calendar years. And the last one on that block, which concerns excise duties, is the amendment under A.B., adopted by the Committee on Budgets, on which we agreed, I would say, by a large majority, and it is actually an adjustment of the transitional provisions on excise duties so that the law can be enforced effectively. Furthermore, we approach the fifth group, and these are amendments containing amendments to the Act on Administrative Charges. I mean, in this case, we have two identical proposals - under B1, Mrs Kovářová's proposal, and under P5 is Mr Munzar's proposal. In alphabetical order, we will vote on proposal B1. This amendment, like the other Mr Munzar, includes the abolition of the proposed increase in the registration fee from CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,000. We are now approaching the sixth group, and these are amendments containing amendments to the Act on the stabilisation of public budgets. There is an amendment under A.C., an amendment which has been approved by the Committee on Budgets by a significant majority. I would like to point out that it is identical to the amendment under the letter H5 of Mr Bartošek. And both of these amendments contain a proposal to abolish the proposed taxation of domestic gas boiler rooms. Once again, in alphabetical order, we will logically vote on the letter A.C, I say this only for order, and the letter H5 will no longer be voted on. The vote thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-four on this bill is three proposals by Mr Luzar, when the first, 32nd vote is Amendment L2 - L2.1 to L2.3 - it is actually a proposal for taxation of domestic gas boiler rooms only for VAT payers and the maintenance of VAT exemptions. And this proposal is, of course, only voteable if the previous proposal of the Committee on Budgets is not adopted, which proposes to completely exempt the proposed taxation of domestic gas boiler rooms. If we remove it, it's not worth editing the parameters. Then there is the 33rd vote, the amendment under the letter L1 of Mr Luzar, which, once again, stands for taxation in a different way. It proposes taxation of domestic boiler rooms only for new boiler rooms regardless of whether or not they are VAT payers. - I am not sure here, rapporteur, if the two proposals are excluded. I don't think so, because it's for new ones, but if L2, too, it would mean that it's only for new ones if it's a VAT payer. I understand, of course, that the two votes are admissible regardless of the outcome of the L2 vote. And the third, which is certainly voteable if the proposal under A.C and H5 is not adopted, and that is to postpone the taxation of domestic gas boiler rooms to 1 October 2021. This is not excluded again with proposals L2 and L1, where appropriate, only to determine their effectiveness if they are adopted. We are now approaching the seventh group - amendments containing amendments to the Gaming Tax Act. And here, rapporteur, I will propose a change so that it is logical. Our proposal, which we bring from our club, is that we first vote on the status quo and then on individual proposals that modify the proposed tax increase as proposed by the government in the Houses of the Press 509. So we propose that we be the first in this group, and it would be the 35th vote, to vote on the N3 amendment by Mr Ferjenčík, who by law removes the proposal to increase the tax on gambling. Then, if it is not adopted, because if it is adopted, then the non-voting proposals G1, G2, J1, H1, H2, O7 variant A, which is equal to J2, will not be voted out, nor will the proposal C2, which is equal to Amendment O6 variant A, and O6 variant B and O7 variant B be unvoting. In other words, if we launch a proposal for taxation, we cannot vote on individual amendments that govern the parameters proposed by the government. Following the N3 proposal, if it is not adopted, I propose that we vote on Mr Kupka's 36th vote on the proposal by Mr Kupka, who, in a simple way, maintains the current rates of gambling tax. If Mr Kupka's proposal is not adopted, we can vote on the 37th vote on proposal A.D - a draft budget committee that maintains the tax on exchange rate bets and lotteries and increases the tax on winning instruments to 38 percent. If it is accepted, the proposals G1, G2 and H1 will be non-voting. If it is not adopted, it will be covered by the amendment under the letter G1 of Mr Veselý. This proposal maintains the increased rates for gambling according to the government's proposal, apart from lotteries, when this amendment proposes increasing the gambling tax for lotteries from 30 to 35 percent. If the G1 is adopted, another proposal by Mr Veselý, under the letter G2, is unvoting. G2 maintains gambling rates except for a lottery where it raises tax from 23 to 30 percent. As the 40th vote, we would vote on Mr Bartošek's H1 proposal, which increases the tax on winning instruments to 40 per cent, while others maintain according to the government's proposal. And that's voteable only if the A.D. proposal hasn't passed, that's the draft budget committee, or N3, or J1. If H1 is accepted, it is unvoting H2. If H1 is not adopted, we will vote in the 41st vote on Mr Bartošek's amendment, which, in simple terms, proposes to bind one percent of the gambling tax to the state's drug policy. Mr rapporteur, I have a note here that if H1 is adopted, it is an unvoting H2 proposal. Do you have it in your background as much as I do? I don't think that's true. The H1 proposal talks about raising the rate to the winning instrument and the second proposal talks about allocating one percent of the selected amount regardless of what the basic rate is. So I don't think it's good in the proposed procedure, and I'd just like you to check it out before we vote. Because I think H2 is voteable, even if it is not accepted, or if H1 is adopted. Did you, Mr rapporteur, make a note of this? Yes? Thank you. I'm asking you to check her out so we don't make a mistake and miss a vote. [[11.30 hours]] The 42nd vote will be the vote on amendment O7 variant A by Mr Martínek, who leaves live games, respectively. leaves the taxation of live games of 23 %. And it is only possible to vote if one of the proposals N3, or G2, or J, has not been adopted. If O7 variant A is accepted, the unvoting proposal C2, which corresponds to O6 variant A, is unvoting. At the same time, the O7 vote will become unvoting J2, which is identical to Amendment O7 option A. It is quite complicated here, which is why I would like to draw your attention to the details of this proposal. As 43rd, we would expect a vote on Mr Votava's amendment to Mr C2 which proposes taxation of live games at 25% instead of a government proposal in which it is 30 per cent. And it is only possible to vote if one of the proposals N3, G2 or O7 variant A has not been adopted. The vote on C2 becomes an unvoting O6 variant A, which is identical with C2. That is logical, when we have two proposals, we can only vote on one of them. As the 44th vote, I propose that we vote on Mr Martínek's Amendment O6 variant B, which introduces a special category for the taxation of card games when players play against each other, proposes a rate of 25 per cent. It is only possible to vote if proposal N3 has not been adopted. If O6 variant B is accepted, O7 variant B is also unvoting. And the last proposal, which concerns a group containing amendments to the Gaming Tax Act, is voting number 45, amending proposal O7 variant B of Mr Martínek, which introduces a special category of taxation for card games where players play against each other, and proposes a rate of 23 percent. We come to the eighth group of amendments containing amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. Here I propose - and there will be a change, Mr rapporteur - to vote first on Amendment P2, P2.1, P2. I have already identified Mr Munzar's amendment as the best of all amendments in terms of simplifying the business environment and supporting small and small entrepreneurs. This is an increase in the threshold of compulsory VAT registration from 1 to 2 million. Crowns. We would then vote on Mr Munzar's proposal for a P3 proposal, which proposes an extension of the time to correct the inspection report from 5 to 15 working days. And then on the 48th vote, we would vote on Mr Skopeček's amendment to the M1 amendment, where there is VAT exemption for language tests. Here I want to say that the Financial Administration has changed its approach and methodology. So far it has not been taxed, the Financial Administration has not accepted this exemption in recent months, which is why we propose to anchor existing long-term practice directly into the law. We are coming to the ninth group, and this is an amendment which repeals the Senate's legal measure on property acquisition tax, it is Amendment P1, which Mr Munzar has tabled on behalf of our Membership Club, and it is about abolishing the real estate acquisition tax. And then he's... [[For the legislative officer at the rapporteur's table:]] I'd ask the legislation not to say that I've messed things up. But you're disturbing me. I didn't mess anything up. [[The law worker disagrees.]] I didn't decide on a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u77	I understand you, Mr President, because first we need to hear the motion and then we can decide on it. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u78	First of all, I'm arguing that the lady here is disturbing the performer. And second of all, I'm just pretending that I messed things up. On the contrary, I have kept all ten categories as suggested by the rapporteur, and I have not upset anything. For about three, I proposed to change the order of individual proposals according to our proposal, so that it would be logical. However, I have always read which proposals are excluded, according to the proposal we have in the Houses of the Press. So I'm really going against this evaluation. Plus, it came with a second-to-last proposal. It will take me about 40 seconds and then, of course, if legislation wants to mention something to the rapporteur, there is no problem. So I was talking about the P1 amendment, which was the penultimate amendment proposal. The last amendment would be the 50th vote. It is again Mr Martínek's proposal, which repeals Section 59 of the Gaming Act, and when I simplify it, it simplifies the organizing of card game tournaments. These are all amendments. And then, of course, for the procedure to be complete, my counter-proposal, the 51st vote would be voted on the bill as a whole. With the assumption that we are counting on a pause before being announced at the TOP 09 meeting after a maximum of 50 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u79	Mr President, I take this as a complex, or one vote this procedure. Not as an alternative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u80	I don't want to delay it, I think we can take one vote. I would just ask the rapporteur to consider the support. It's nothing dramatic, I've really just switched a more logical vote for about three blocks, in my opinion, especially... Maybe I'll change that a little bit, Mr. Chairman. I would ask that we vote on the individual blocks where I change. [[unintelligible]] That'll be about three or four. [[President: Blocks, then.]] We don't need every change in that block. The changes, we'll just check with the rapporteur, they concern the third group - am I right? Then they relate to the fourth group, then they relate to the seventh, correct, and then they concern the eighth. So four votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u81	Four votes, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u82	I would ask the rapporteur if he could support this. I think we're going to deal with the modified procedure very simply, but comfortably for those who have watched and watched it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u83	Now for the procedure, Mr Bartošek, has been applied for. No? In that case, my colleague Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor. I don't have a suggestion, I just wanted to ask my colleague Stanjura, maybe I misheard. If I heard correctly, he said the G2 was unvoted if the G1 was accepted, which I think is a mistake. But I guess I misheard the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u85	It's voteable, we understand each other, okay. If there is no one else to suggest a different procedure, I will ask the rapporteur to vote on a possible change of procedure in those four steps. I ask the House for peace! This is a serious procedural vote, so that we are perfectly clear on how we are going to proceed. Mr rapporteur, in four steps, the change proposed by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u86	Thank you, Mr President. It was proposed to vote on changes by group. So the first vote would be about the procedure in the third group, i.e. amendments to the amendment of the Income Tax Act and the Reserve Act. [[unintelligible]] The change would be that after step 19 N1, M2, E1 and D will be voted in the other... And M2. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u87	We will decide on this change of procedure, which is included in the 509/4 press, in the 17 vote that I launched, and I ask who is against who? Thank you. In the vote order number 17, out of 189, present for 84, against 91 Members. The motion was not accepted. Now the other group, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u88	These are the fourth group, amendments containing the wording of the Law on excise duties, with the proposal being that after a point, if you correct me, 25, 26 votes N6 and then further. [[- Yes.]] It's just a transfer of the N6 votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u89	One regroup, then, okay? [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] We will decide in the vote on this change in the vote number 18 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 18. Of the 189 present for 86, versus 96. The motion was not accepted. Third vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u90	Then it is the seventh group, the proposals for amendments to the Gaming Tax Act, with the proposed gradual vote N3, J1, G1, and then it goes on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u91	Thank you. I started voting number 19. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19. Of the 189 present for 69, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. Last vote to change the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u92	The last is the eighth group, amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, with the proposed order P2, P3, M1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u93	We will decide in the vote number 20, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20. Of the 189 present for 86, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. The original procedure approved by the Committee on Budgets, contained in the 509/4, is therefore valid. [[Voices from the diaper.]] I mean, it doesn't apply until we approve it, but that's the basis for the negotiations now. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u94	I will just try to answer what President Stanjura has asked, that is the question of those H1 and H2 proposals, as stated in the procedure, if H1 is approved, is unvoting H2. It is because they both contain - the first one, H1, contains a change in rates and then the individual determination, and the second one only proposes the determination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u95	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u96	Clearly, the proposals are different. Yeah, they have a part in common, I think there's got to be a vote on it. I would be in favour of having the rapporteur vote on both, whether we do not have a half-hour debate, whether we do or not. It's faster to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u97	That's the fastest, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u98	I think they're different, but rather than arguing that it's faster to vote on both, and the majority will show up somehow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u99	Thank you for your kindness. We will not have an unnecessary procedural debate. Before I vote on the procedure under House Press 509/4, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Jana Maláčová and the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga apologize from 15.30 am to the end of the day. Now, rapporteur, can I put my vote on the proposed procedure? [[Yes.]] The procedure will be decided in the vote number 21 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21. From the present 189 to 187, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can follow it. At the same time, before we vote on the various amendments and ask the Minister and rapporteur for opinions, I will ask for a replacement in the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u100	Thank you. So it's going to be a shorter time. If I got it right, the procedure is already approved. And now we should vote first on rejection or, if necessary, legislative technical regulation. As far as I know, the motion for rejection has been made, so I will call my colleagues into the hall, even though I believe we are all here, and I am opening the vote on rejection. [[Gong]] [[Voices from the diaper.]] Sorry. I want to ask, Mr rapporteur... whether there is an interest in communicating opinions or not. I'm sorry, I'm gonna call this vote confusing. We'll repeat it. I shall ask the committee's opinion before I vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u101	Opinion of the Committee on Budgets - did not recommend a motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u102	I didn't. Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. So now it's all by the book. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of rejection. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 23, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 102. The motion was not accepted. And as a further proposal, they were legislatively technical. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u103	We have a proposal for legislative technical amendments, submitted by Member Ferjenčík. And it actually regulates his proposal to fulfil the purpose - even after the debate with the legislation, I think that this is indeed a legislative technical regulation of his proposal N6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u104	Thank you. Mr. MP... Everything's fine. I'm asking for an opinion... or perhaps the committee didn't accept an opinion, I presume. [[Rapporteur: No.]] The D.O.D. has an opinion... or probably doesn't. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this legislative technical regulation. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 24, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 188, against no one. So we have adopted the adjustment, and now, please, another group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u105	The amendment under letter F, Mrs Krutáková, concerns the extension of the exemption of selected ecologically important elements to a group of trees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u106	Thank you. Opinion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u107	The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u108	I didn't. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 25, 188 Members and Members are enrolled, for 84, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u109	The next proposal is proposal P4, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, and concerns the removal of the obligation to file tax returns in some cases by introducing a register for real estate tax. Opinion - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u110	The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I have begun the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 26, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 78, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Next group, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u111	We got into another group, and this is a change to the Income Tax Act and the Reserves Act for determining the income tax base. It is the O1 proposal, Mr Tomáš Martínek, and it concerns the abolition of the regulation introducing the taxation of gambling prizes and prizes from the receipt lottery. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u112	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 27, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 76, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u113	Another is the proposal C1, Mr Václav Votava, and it concerns the abolition of the regulation introducing the taxation of gambling prizes and prizes from the receipt lottery. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u114	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 28 includes 188 Members and Members, for 75, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u115	Another proposal is the H4 of Jan Bartošek and concerns the abolition of the regulation introducing the taxation of gambling prizes. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u116	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 29, 188 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u117	The next proposal is A.A. It is originally Mr Rais's amendment, as amended by Mrs Miloslava Vostrá's amendment, concerning the regulation of the taxation of gambling prizes and prizes from the receipt lottery, where, among other things, the limit for taxation is increased to CZK million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u118	Opinion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u119	Sorry. It is also a proposal approved by the Committee on Budgets, which is why it recommended it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u120	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 30, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 170, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u121	The other proposal is Mr Tomáš Martínek's O2 and concerns the regulation on the taxation of gambling prizes. clean wins. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u122	Thank you. Please take a stand... [[- Disadvised.]] Mr Martínek is screaming, which I would like him not to do. However, I will ask the rapporteur to verify the voting capacity of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u123	I'm sorry. Since we have accepted A.A.A this proposal is unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u124	Yes, thank you. So, please, another proposal that can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u125	I believe that the next voteable proposal is O4, yes, it is Mr Tomáš Martínek's O4 and concerns an increase in the limit for exempting gambling prizes and prizes from the winning lottery to 10 million Czech crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u126	Opinion, please. [[- Disadvised. - The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.]] Well, thank you. I think we both heard it. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 31, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 50, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u127	Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík on the N5 proposal and concerns the limitation of the exemption of income from the bribely transfer of the security. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u128	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 32 vote includes 188 Members and Members, for 21, against 115. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u129	The next proposal is the Q1 proposal, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, and concerns the abolition of the so-called abolition. supergross wages and a solidarity tax increase. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u130	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 73, against 85. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u131	The next proposal is K, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, and concerns measures in income taxes to promote electromobility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u132	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Disagreeable. - Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 34. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 34, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 67, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u133	Another proposal by E3 of Mr Jan Hrnčíř concerns an increase in the limit for the exemption of income from occasional activities to 36 thousand Czech crowns. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u134	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Yes. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 35, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 84, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u135	Another proposal is the E2 of Mr Hrnčíř, a reduction in the corporate tax rate for small taxpayers. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u136	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Yes. I've started voting number 36. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 36 189 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 100. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u137	Another proposal is the Q2 by Mrs Helena Langšádlová and concerns the abolition of the adjustment of technical provisions in insurance. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u138	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started a 37-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 37, 188 Members and Members are registered, for 76, against 99. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u139	Another proposal is Mrs Věra Kovářová's B2 and concerns the narrowing of the new regulation of technical provisions in insurance for the non-life insurance sector. The Committee on Budgets has been recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u140	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've initiated the 38-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 38 188 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u141	Another proposal is Mrs Věra Kovářová's B3 and concerns the adjustment of technical provisions in the insurance sector - the elimination of certain irregularities between the accounting reserves and the solvency II reserves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u142	Thank you. Opinion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u143	The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u144	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote on order number 39 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 39, 188 Members and Members of Parliament, for 86, against 99 are entered. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u145	Another draft letter D is the proposal of Radek Koten and concerns an increase in the limit for tax depreciation of tangible assets to CZK 100,000. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u146	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started a 40-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 40, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 56, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u147	Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík N1 and concerns the increase of the basic discount on the taxpayer and the discount on the husband to 30,000 Czech crowns. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u148	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the number 41 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 41, 189 Members and Members shall be registered, for 83, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please. Sorry, vote check. We'll wait a while. I'll take the breaks to introduce you to an apology. Today, from 16.30 to the end of the day and on 7 and 8 November, Mrs Golasowská apologizes for health reasons. President Stanjura has something to vote on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u149	I object to the vote. I voted in favour, I'm sure you've all seen my hand visually raised upstairs, and I've been on high for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u150	Thank you. So there's an objection to the vote, we'll let it vote. Initiating vote on objection. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against the objection? In voting order number 42, 190 Members and Members shall be registered, for 179, against 1. Objection has been accepted, so we will repeat the previous vote. I believe that there is no need to repeat opinions, nor what the proposal is that it is possible to vote directly. So I'm initiating a repeat vote, order number 43, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, order number 43, which we repeated to vote number 41, 190 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u151	Another proposal is the proposal of E1 by Mr Jan Hrnčíř and concerns the increase of the basic discount on the taxpayer and the discount on the husband to CZK 27,400. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u152	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote on order number 44 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 44, 190 Members and Members shall be registered, for 83, against 71. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u153	Another proposal is the proposal of N2 by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, which is to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer and the discounts on the husband to 27 000 Czech crowns. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u154	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 45, 190 Members and Members shall be registered, for 85, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u155	Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Jan Skopeček's M2 and concerns increasing the basic discount on the taxpayer to CZK 30,000 - just to clarify that it concerns only the taxpayer, it does not actually concern the husband, so it is voteable. [[A mild festivities in the right side of the hall.]] The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u156	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote of order number 46 190 Members and Members shall be registered, for 86, against 70. The motion was not accepted. And now the next group follows, and I will use this moment to hand over the meeting's management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u157	Mr rapporteur, please let us continue with the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u158	We are coming to the group of amendments concerning the amendment of the Consumer Tax Act. The first is Mr. Jan Skopeček's M3 and concerns the correction of the increase in the excise duty rate on alcohol proposed by the government proposal. As has already been explained here, this is a more moderate increase than the government's proposal. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u159	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 47, 190 Members are registered, for 66, against 81. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u160	The next proposal is under the letter I by Radek Holomčík and concerns an increase in the limit on the exemption of beer produced in the household from excise duty, where it is proposed to increase the limit to 2 000 litres per calendar year. The Committee on Budgets has been recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u161	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 48, 190 Members registered, for 165, against 8. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u162	The next proposal is K2 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we know what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u164	So K2 - Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal and concerns the distribution of the growth rates of excise taxes and tobacco commodities into four stages. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u165	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 49, 190 Members registered, for 75, against 85. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u166	The next proposal is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's N6 and concerns the distribution of tax rates on tobacco commodities into two stages. I specify that, in the wording of the legislative technical amendments that we have approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u167	Opinion, please. [[Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 50 registered 190 Members, for 73, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u168	The next proposal is B. It is a draft budget committee and concerns the adjustment of transitional provisions to excise duties. The Committee on Budgets has been recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u169	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 51, 189 Members signed up, for 166, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u170	Another proposal is Mrs Věra Kovářová's B1 and concerns the maintenance of the administrative fee at the current level. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u171	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 52, 189 Members voted in favour of 90, against 64. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u172	We will not vote on the P5 proposal because it is identical to the B1 proposal. We are coming to a group of amendments containing amendments to the Act on the Stabilisation of Public Budget. The first proposal is A.C. It is a draft budget committee and concerns the maintenance of the exemption of gas intended for the domestic boiler room from gas tax. The Committee on Budgets has been recommended. Bathrooms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u173	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 53, 187 Members signed up, for 185, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u174	Since the A.C. proposal has been adopted, L2, L1, L3 is unvoting. And we are coming to the seventh group, and that is a group of amendments containing amendments to the Gaming Tax Act. The first proposal is proposed by the A.D. Budget Committee and concerns a change in the level of certain gambling tax rates. The Committee on Budgets has been recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u175	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 54, 189 Members voted in favour of 71, against 67. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u176	Another proposal is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's N3 and concerns - it proposes the maintenance of existing gambling tax rates. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u177	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 55, 190 Members signed up, for 62, against 88. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u178	The next proposal is the G1 proposal. It was handed by Mr Ondřej Veselý and concerns an increase in the rate of partial lottery tax against the government proposal. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u179	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 56 registered 189 Members, for 99, against 48. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u180	The next proposal is G2. It was handed to Mr Ondřej Veselý and he proposes to maintain the current level of tax rates for gambling, for all gambling, except for the partial lottery tax we approved in G1, so he keeps the other rates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u181	Committee opinion? [[Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets has been recommended.]] Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Questions from the diaper that are being put to the vote.]] G2. Who's against it? In voting number 57, 187 Members voted in favour of 148, against 27. The proposal was adopted, but the vote will be reviewed. [[After a while:]] What is the result of the vote check, please? [[Messenger. One second.]] Mr Kupka to vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u182	Sorry. I just have to object because I have a say in high school, but I voted against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u183	Are you questioning the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u184	I question this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u185	Yes, we will vote on challenging the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? In vote number 58 registered 189 Members, for 180, against no one. The objection has been accepted, we will vote again on the G2 proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u186	Was Prime Minister Stanjura's request here to explain the G2 or the G1 vote? There. The G1 proposal that we adopted states that it increases in lotteries from the original 23 and the government 30 to 35. That's what we approved. And the G2... no. [[Conjecture off the microphone.]] That's all. And G2 means that it stays with others according to the current condition. That means 23. 23, mostly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u187	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u188	I'm sorry, but we approved the G1. And according to the G1 rapporteur's interpretation, there are 23 odds, 30 lottery and 35 VHP. He just said that the lottery went up to 35 and the others according to the current state, not according to the government proposal. [[Again conjecture and objection.]] No, the chairman said it was G1, which is why I need to clarify. So far, we're in a situation where we've left the government's proposal as it is. Only on the question of lotteries are we from 30 what the government suggests, you have raised to 35. Yes? So we've decided that government rates apply, and now we're changing them again with the next vote? [[voice off the mcrophone.]] Which one rate? [[A voice from the diaper: just the one rate. - Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. So, please, let me ask you a question...]] No, no, I'm sorry. If you look at the amendment under the letter G1, it says that... But you didn't say that two... So the Minister is wrong, but the rapporteur is right. G1 means keeping all existing rates out of the lottery. Because the amendment points two to seven are deleted. That's... that's a G7. [[The situation is unclear.]] There was an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u189	So the deal is we can vote G2, between the President and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u190	We're voting G2 because we've repeated it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u191	I don't understand. I'm sorry. Mike, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u192	Yes, before the repeat vote, please take a five-minute break for our club's brief meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u193	I would grant this request so that we do not vote in a way that would then be questionable. If there's no objection from the other clubs, I'm declaring a five-minute recess for the ODS club meeting. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12:23 pm until 12:28 pm.]] It is 12:28 a.m., Madam Members, we will continue the vote. We are in a position to vote on point G2. Before that, there is Mr Beitl's request to comment on the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on the vote 56. In high school, I have said that I voted in favour, and I voted against. I do not question the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u195	Thank you. Well, that's an expression for the log. The vote shall not be called into question. And now, rapporteur, if so, we will vote on Amendment G2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u196	Yes, we will vote on Amendment G2 - a repeated vote, with the recommendation of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u197	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 59, 188 Members registered, for 138, against 9. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u198	Given that we have adopted the G2, so the J1 proposal is unvoting, but we can vote on the H1 proposal by Mr Jan Bartošek and it concerns the increase in the rate of partial tax on foreign games and the introduction of a dedicated determination of the gambling tax. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u199	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Sorry, I'm not taking the vote. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u200	A moment ago, we decided on the rate for VHP by voting G2. And the next vote, we're deciding on the same rate again. I don't understand the procedure. I need to explain, Mr rapporteur. We needed that meeting to figure out exactly what G2. Now I don't exactly have the text of the amendment if it's here. Do you have the text? [[He turns to the rapporteur who is looking for the required text.]] I just want to point it out. I think we've already decided that if we keep voting, it's possible, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u201	Mr rapporteur, can we vote or is there an obstacle? [[Rapporteur: We can vote.]] We can vote. We are therefore voting on Amendment H1. To be sure, please take the opinion of the committee. [[Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 60, 190 Members signed in, for 14, against 106. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u202	Another proposal is Mr. Jan Bartošek's H2 and concerns the introduction of a special purpose destination for gambling tax. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u203	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 61, 190 Members registered, for 18, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u204	Since we have adopted the G2, the O7 and C2 proposals are unvoted. So we will vote on the O6, variant B of Mr Tomáš Martínek. It concerns the introduction of a separate sub-tax on live card games at a rate of 25 per cent. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u205	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 62, 189 Members voted in favour of 10, against 76. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u206	Another proposal is the O7 introduction of a separate partial tax on live card games at a rate of 23 percent, but by approving... [[Secretary of Finance Schiller off the mic: Is this voteable?]] Yeah, this is voteable, sorry. [[Chairman Fiala: We didn't approve the option... so it's voteable.]] Yes, yes. So it's O7, variant B of Mr. Tomáš Martínek. And it's the introduction of a separate sub-tax on live card games at a rate of 23 percent. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u207	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 63, 190 Members signed up, for 8, against 75. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u208	We are getting to the amendments related to the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. It is the proposal of Mr Vojtěch Munzar's P2 and concerns an increase in the turnover limit of the VAT payer's statute from one million to two million Czech crowns. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u209	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 64, 190 Members registered, for 86, against 85. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u210	Another proposal is Mr Jan Skopeček's M1 and concerns the extension of the VAT exemption to a wider range of language education services. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u211	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 65, 190 Members registered, for 87, against 75. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u212	Another proposal is the proposal of Mr Vojtěch Munzar's P3 and concerns the amendment of the deadline for supplementing or correcting the inspection report. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u213	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 66, 190 Members signed up, for 85, against 87. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u214	We are coming to the next group, and these are amendments repealing the Senate's statutory measure on tax on the acquisition of immovable property and it is Mr Vojtěch Munzar's P1 proposal. It submits a proposal for the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u215	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 67, 189 Members voted in favour of 86, against 94. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u216	The last amendment is Mr Tomáš Martínek's proposal again and it is the repeal of Section 59 of the Gaming Act. I'll remind you, it concerns poker tournaments and participation. The Committee on Budgets has been recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u217	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 68, 190 Members signed up, for 174, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u218	We have exhausted all the amendments and we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u219	No, we're not going to vote yet. We have exhausted all the amendments. There is a request for a 20-minute break for the TOP 09 meeting before the final vote. Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD club Jan Chvojka signed up with priority rights. Mr. Chairman, you have the floor before I call a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u220	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I think we've been through quite a lot of work today, and it would be good to finish it. I mean, the tax package. And it would also be even better if we finally approved a parenting increase. Therefore, I would like to propose that we vote today on the laws that are at third reading, even after 14 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u221	But I will not interrupt the vote on this bill, and I will not vote on your proposal until after we have voted on the law as a whole. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u222	Dear President Chvojka through the Vice-President, on Tuesday we made some sort of agreement, all of us, including you, that today will be the third reading by 14 o'clock, and even from 15.30 there have been solid points. So I don't know why you're proposing to break this deal, which you deliberately and deliberately made with us. First of all. Second, that she is not an approved parent, thank yourself. At the last meeting, we placed it as the first item in the third reading block, we approved an emergency meeting, you only gave it 90 minutes. That was not enough, it was your decision that only 90 minutes. I'm not gonna criticize the secretary's one hour speech. I criticize that it was only 90 minutes of parental allowance at third reading by your vote. Then don't put that on us. The parental contribution is not yet approved because of the YES movement, social democracy and the Communist Party, because you preferred raising taxes before increasing the parental contribution. Why not, you have every right. But we made a deal on Tuesday, and I think you'll confirm that we're negotiating until 2:00 tonight. It was the first thing Vice-President Okamura said, who was driving, he opened a meeting on Tuesday, that it was an arrangement, that there would be a lunch break by 3:30, and by 3:30, I think President Faltýnek suggested five... That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u223	Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u224	One sentence. Yes, it's true that we agreed to take the third reading within 14 hours and then take a break. However, it does not rule out this proposal by my colleague Chvojka, when there is a will to negotiate a parental contribution. So I don't know, the proposal is voteable, and we can vote on it. Or you could put him up to speed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u225	The proposal is voteable, but we will vote on it when we have finished discussing this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u226	When we vote, I will comment on the proposal, but you do not have to mystify the public. You know there's another special meeting starting on Friday at 9:00, which has one single point - a parental contribution. Approval of the parental allowance this week is not in any danger unless you prevent it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u227	I am declaring a 20-minute break at the TOP 09 meeting. We'll continue at 13.02 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 1:02 p.m. and the time has ended, which has been set for the break of the TOP 09 Members' Club, we will continue our negotiations. Because there was a procedural proposal here at the moment when I had already announced a break, as part of the speech with the priority right of the President of the ČSSD Chvojka parliamentary club, that we continue to discuss third reading today after 14:00, so before we proceed to the final vote, we will have to deal with this procedural proposal. So here I am reminding you that, before the final vote, there are some applications with priority rights, but before I give the floor to speaking with priority rights as the first President of Bartošek, we should vote on what Mr Chvojka proposed by the President of the ČSSD. Once again, I will repeat the proposal, to make it clear, because we are at an emergency meeting, the President's proposal is that we continue the negotiations today after 2:00 p.m., discussing points at third reading until we decide on them, so was the proposal. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will give another word to the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjur to comment on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u229	Thank you for the floor. We are based on the fact that we hold agreements that we conclude when dealing with political competitors or allies. The worst thing that can happen to us is that we don't make a deal. We agreed on what today and Friday will look like. The proposal does not actually indicate the agreement, but President Chvojka has full right to it, I acknowledge it, so allow me, on behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, to object to the veto or objection to third reading proceedings outside the legal period of Wednesday and Friday 9.00 to 14.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u230	Yes. Thank you. This means that President Chvojka's proposal is unvoting, the veto of two MPs has been raised against him. Now with priority rights, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u231	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Unfortunately, I couldn't get off early in the order of the enrollment. For the KDU-ČSL club I want to say that we are sorry that this veto fell because we were convinced that it would be appropriate to discuss the parental contribution this afternoon, because it is really young families and parents with children. We respect the veto, I firmly believe that on Friday we will not make unnecessary and long speeches and we will vote on the parental contribution so that we can conclude this item on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u233	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the opinion of our parliamentary club before the final vote on the Houses of the Press 509. First of all, I would like to remind you that this final vote is only at the expense of a clear violation of the law in force in the Czech Republic, although you have been brought to the attention of a clear conflict with the law, even though the decision and position of the Constitutional Court on this issue have been quoted precisely here. So the majority of the government, that means three parliamentary clubs, the ANO parliamentary club, the Czech Party's social democratic and parliamentary club of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, knowingly broke the law and I think that we must not forget that fact, even though we have different views as to what measures this particular House press has to contain and which it does not have. We have waited with this opinion for this final vote, because we have had about 50 votes on the amendments, and I think it is good before the final vote to sum up the state in which we may send this House press to the upper chamber. Now we know, at this point we're sure. So I will take advantage of the breakdown proposed by the rapporteur, according to which we have acted, and we can recapitulate it together, and I will draw particular attention to taxpayers and specific groups of specific taxpayers, where we have wasted our chance to reduce taxes in the long term economic growth, thereby allowing citizens to benefit from this long-term economic growth, so that they decide for themselves what they will do with any tax savings, and not that the Chamber of Deputies or the Government will decide for them. I would be the first to mention a matter which, unfortunately, we have unsuccessfully and unfortunately repeatedly voted on. In the general debate, I have called on all the opponents proposed to abolish the property acquisition tax to try to tell us on the microphone some reason why the tax is even applied to taxpayers. There was no reason for me to know except that 28 years ago the Czech National Council somehow voted on the then member club of the then Civil Forum. But that's not why, that's a statement of fact. I don't know if there are specific ballots available, I wasn't looking for them, I didn't think it was necessary. Moreover, to defend our colleagues who were sitting here 28 years ago, that is, the second year of free Czechoslovakia at that time, the communist system was transformed into a capitalist system or democracy - as we call it, everyone as they please. After 28 years of criticizing them for doing something right, something better, something worse, something wrong, it's very simple. No one had any experience with the tax system in a free democratic society. We repeatedly address - and it is not an easy solution because we perceive the problem of housing availability for young families, we perceive the problem of high prices, we perceive the problem that, often because of the construction law or the territorial planning documentation, it is problematic to find housing, and to find housing at a reasonable price, even though people are willing to take a mortgage and invest in their future. Yet The Chamber of Deputies rejected a logical proposal that could have reduced property prices by at least 4%. It's too bad. And it's the third time, I think the third time was a wasted opportunity. [[13.10 hours]] I'm just reminding you that the whole upper chamber, respectively, agreed on the cancellation. Most of the upper chamber, to be exact. I don't know the exact numbers of the votes of individual senators and senators. But it's not just the civil democrats' position. Yes, we actively bring this into political debate, actively and repeatedly propose it. Unfortunately, we weren't successful. So for all of you who are going to be taking housing, the decision of most of these three government parties will make your potential new housing 4 percent more expensive than it would have to be. I would say that all political parties, at least rhetorically and in their electoral programmes, have written: promoting entrepreneurship. We, if we want to simplify it, think it would be enough if the state followed two simple rules: not to interfere and not to do business. To keep the state from interfering. Yesterday we had debates about the tax code, when the Minister of Finance justified the need for Financial Administration to check, for example, the audit reports instead of 30 45 days. We have come up with a logical proposal that would prolong the enormously short period of businessmen, especially small and small, who under the law have only 5 working days to respond to any administrative error in this report, inspection reports or summary reports, to 15 working days. Nothing dramatic. Yet the government majority rejected this proposal, which would simplify - simplify - the obligations of small and small entrepreneurs. The government majority also refused to increase the mandatory VAT registration. This was clear and concrete aid to small businessmen. The estimated impacts of the Ministry of Finance from the original 15 to 30 billion were reduced to around 7 to 10 billion after our protests and questions. At the same time, it could enable tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs to significantly simplify their business management, bookkeeping, obligations that might not be imposed on them due to a mandatory VAT registration. Of course, all entrepreneurs, even with that increase, would have the opportunity to volunteer to pay VAT if they considered it beneficial for them. That's how businessmen make decisions. And it's perfectly logical and right. We also rejected the fact, as I announced, that the Financial Administration had started to apply VAT exemptions to language education in a different way. In fact, for a long time language education has been exempt from VAT, until recently the Financial Administration has changed methodology and has actually begun to burden VAT by simplifying it, the final language exams. If we compare statistics and compare language amenities in our Republic, we certainly are not at our best. And we agree on that. This was a chance to contribute at least a small step to not making it harder and burdening other funding for language education that is so much needed. You know how many foreign entities are doing here, and how often at least one world language, whether English or German, is required, is already a standard qualification prerequisite. And those who are willing and inclined to learn, to improve their language equipment, will simply have more expensive. And I say - not by changing the law, but only by changing the methodology. We've tried to react by trying to make it more clear and maintain a long-term practice. Unfortunately, this proposal was not accepted. I think that most taxpayers outside VAT, because actually who buys VAT from a payer, so they pay without knowing it or not not noticing it, so we have most taxpayers in the income tax of individuals, especially in the income tax of dependent activity. In the past days, I have seen about six or seven, or maybe a fourth time, I don't know, a serious speech by the Minister of Finance from the ANO movement, who says with a serious face: I will therefore propose the abolition of the supergross wage and propose that the tax be only on gross wages, in the amount of 19 per cent. It has already been said here today that this has once been a valid part of our legislation. There was no efficacy. And today we had a chance to help the government fulfill its government's programming statement. It is indeed paradoxical and rather sad than smiling that the elements or points of this government's programming statement suggest the opposition, the opposition votes for them, the majority will reject it to say at the same time: we will prepare the same proposal. Indeed, taxpayers cannot understand that. I'll translate it for them. The government doesn't want to cut your taxes. It's that simple. Don't be fooled by the rumors that some proposal will be prepared to cancel the supergross wage and reduce the tax burden by approximately 1.1 percentage point. If the government wanted it, in the last three governments, in the last six years, it had countless chances, whether it were Sobotkův's government, the first government of Andrej Babiš, or the second government of Andrej Babiš, to design this and to enforce it with the support of the opposition. Yes, we would argue about the amount of the equal tax. We're proposing a more severe tax reduction. Nevertheless, we are prepared to support any tax reductions. This is also what I announced when we were talking about our approach to individual opposition proposals, and that is how we arranged ourselves in individual votes. So no tax cuts at the moment of long-term economic growth, when the state, to put it simply, isn't exactly accurate on the units to do it, but every year it withdraws 100 billion more from taxpayers, so the state isn't willing to roughly - in that government proposal it's about 30 billion - it's not willing to let our taxpayers have 30 billion, because the government majority thinks it's better to pull the money out of their pockets and then decide for them what the money is used for. In the case of excise duties, the Minister of Finance argued the level of inflation over the last ten years and the increase in average wages. And these are facts that no one in the opposition has ever questioned. However, when the opposition used the same argument to increase the basic discount for the taxpayer, even in four variants - I will just remind you that these were variations from the Pirates' MP club, from our MP club and also from the SPD MEP - in four variants we voted that we would actually leave more money to our citizens. Not by lowering the rate, not by canceling the supergross wage, but by increasing the basic discount. What was the government's answer to the majority? Dear taxpayers, no, we will take the money from you, although the basic discount has been in force since 2008, although inflation has increased over the years, although the average wage has increased significantly - and it is a good thing that the average wage has increased - we will still not increase your basic discount. I repeatedly say that I am surprised at my colleagues, especially from the left, because for low-income and medium-income groups, the increase in the basic rate is relatively more favourable than for the richest, they will not even know it, whereas for those who achieve average and lower wages, they would actually know it and could have increased taxes. The proposals weren't revolutionary. The lowest design of the basic discount increased by approximately CZK 2,500. It was also worth it to the government not to reduce the income of taxpayers and our households during long-term economic growth. [[13.20 hours]] If I go back to the amendments that we made in that third group, that is, with income tax, the government has introduced a whole new tax, virtually. The government majority, because I think we all have an idea of how the final vote will end. Not only does the government not increase (?) taxes, not only increases others, I'll talk about it in a minute, so the government introduces brand new taxes. For example, the tax on winnings. The moment someone wins, the government takes about 15 percent. I will overlook the technically imperfect bill on this particular point, especially the hardest gamble where I can't imagine how the Financial Administration is able to lay a fair basis for tax. Then you can count it out, but with the fact that you have to count down the stakes, I don't know, we can say in a year or a year and a half and ask the Ministry of Finance how much this new tax has brought money into the state budget. If we accept the argument about inflation and rising average wages, both aid and proposals to increase the limit of occasional income from 30 to 36,000 were worthwhile, even the government here wants to tax all the time, and they were worthy of support and proposals to increase the value of material property, which is then written off, from 40 to 100 thousand. That's what the government majority refused. The biggest debate, the most complicated and risky element of the entire House press 509 is the proposed taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies. In other words, it is an attack on 5.5 million citizens who have paid for life insurance, who pay for it and which, without a doubt, will reduce the return and, without a doubt, for new insurances, can become more expensive. [[unintelligible]] It is a one-time income, it makes no sense, and the government has rejected Mrs Kovářová's reasonable compromise proposal. I hear very often from the Prime Minister or the Minister of the Environment the sentences that we would sign in this area, which means that in the area of climate change the Czech Republic should proceed wisely with regard to the environment, but at the same time with regard to the competitiveness of the Czech industry and the competitiveness and income of our households. That is certainly the right approach, and in this I would appreciate the government, or at least some of its representatives. We, as citizens' democrats, have brought one of the amendments that had economic, tax instruments, i.e. without direct subsidies, support the development of electromobility in the Czech Republic. The electromobility may seem wrong, wrong, we may be looking for additional adjectives, but the decision has already been made, the Czech Republic has accepted commitments. Although I have asked the Minister for the Environment if he refuses to do this, if he would at least tell us some specific things that would fit in with the sensible environmental policy, at the same time as not reducing the competitiveness of the Czech industry and household income, to tell us some concrete measures, let it not be merely a phrase, unfortunately, the Minister of the Environment has been kept silent by the debate. We'll see, maybe he'll bring other bills and see. This debate awaits us, which the Czech Republic will not avoid not only during this parliamentary term, but in the whole period until 2030. Those decisions will not be easy, given what decisions the surrounding states and some of the partners in the European Union are making. That's what we have to say. And I wouldn't criticize the government here, I'd rather invite her to cooperate with the opposition, because the basic approach we have is the same, which I understood from public appearances where government officials... It's a shame we didn't support the acceleration of depreciation. This means, in an area that concerns the largest set of taxpayers, what everyone understands, i.e. the tax he has on his payroll, so we actually rejected two options to increase net income. Both the reduction in the basic discount and the reduction in the gross wage tax rate. What we supported and supported by the government, and I don't know exactly what the fight against alcoholism is about, and I'm not criticizing the decision, I just want to remind you, and that's good news at least for those who make beer at home, that 2,000 litres, 10 times against the current state, will be exempt from excise duty. I say, I'm not criticizing it, it's just here that it shows the hypocrisy of the government when it claims that other excise duties increase with regard to the health of our citizens. This is going the other way. Let me just remind you that we have supported this I do not criticize the outcome of the vote, I am just wondering about the various approaches of the government on the issue of alcohol. [[unintelligible.]] Very often we talk about the need to take effective measures for the landscape. He was here - I felt that it was a non-conflict - Mrs Krutáková's proposal to free the real estate tax of a group of trees, when I put it this way in a simple, legislative language. I really considered this to be a small thing that could help the landscape, but for unknown reasons for me, the government majority rejected it. She also rejected Mr Munzar's proposal at a time of digitisation, which could simplify and contribute to automated real estate taxes if someone sold a piece of land or bought a piece of land. So again, declared targets are digitalization, electronization, when there's a specific proposal on the table, so the government's majority is against. Perhaps the biggest group of amendments was gambling taxes. So let me get this straight. The government majority decided that Sports is the most problematic gamble in the Czech Republic. Yes, you can hear me well. Because by decision of the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, gambling rates remain the same for all types of gambling, except for the Sporter. [[unintelligible]] I don't completely understand. I'd be looking for motives other than economic motives. I don't have any proof of that, so I'm not gonna speculate anymore. But if the government was serious about wanting to fight gambling, now I'm going to overlook all the shortcomings that are in that area, and out of all kinds of gambling, it's going to pull out the Sportka and say, "Dear citizens, you who play Sport, you pay the gambling, we have to raise the taxes, and for everyone else, it's going to leave it, so it's at least weird. [[He responds to the voices from the diaper:]] Enough - it is not enough if there was a debate, so you could learn a lot of interesting information. I'd like to know if anyone has anything to say to me, get him to the microphone, tell him not to yell at me. I don't see that as an appropriate way of communicating. By the way, the government majority also rejected our compromise proposals and also rejected the proposal, I think the President of the Výborný, to try to find a solution that would not force the opposition to turn to the Constitutional Court. Even the meeting, which was proposed for 20 or 30 minutes, was rejected because you have a majority, so why would you deal with someone? [[13.30 hours]] Today, I think the ANO movement has been decloaked. Their motto, which they have been saying for so long, has long not responded to reality: we will not increase taxes. Today, this story of non-tax increases simply ends with the YES movement. Of course, they raised taxes and weren't quite visible. It is hard to explain to taxpayers that they canceled the abolition of the supergross wage, the sentence itself is so obscure, the words are hard to explain, but the fairy tale about how the YES movement does not increase taxes is definitely behind us and the YES movement clearly increases taxes. At the same time, you broke the government's programming declaration. You have every right, these are your sentences, your obligations. I only remind you of two. That any proposed changes in the tax area will be tax-neutral, that is, in that case, if we made a plus and a minus, the House press of 509 should have a great positive zero. At the same time, you have undertaken that all tax changes will be adopted in good time. Today we have November 6th, and it certainly does not create enough for the taxpayers, given that the proposal is still heading to the upper chamber. To sum up and repeat what someone has said today - that we are in such a situation on November 6th, documenting the inability of the government to rule and effectively manage the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. You've decided to take a hostage tax increase from young families. Thanks to you, we have four extraordinary meetings this week because you have preferred tax increases to increase the parental contribution, on which, by the way, there is political agreement. Yes, there's no consensus on specific parameters, we'll talk about that on Friday at the emergency meeting, but the basic proposal to increase the parental allowance from 220 grand to 300 grand is supported by all the MPs. That means all the proposals made by President Chvojka and others I consider hypocritical. At this meeting, we repeatedly offered and eventually voted for the parental contribution to be the first in the third reading block. We don't have most of it. You have most of it. And we have had four or four voting days at the beginning of the meeting, in the first two days of the Chamber of Deputies, where we were able to discuss the parental contribution as the first item. Wednesday, Friday, Wednesday, Friday. I'm not counting committee week, that was extraordinary stuff, today's the fifth voting day. You haven't used the option five times. If you care so much about raising your parental allowance, he's been in the Senate for ten days now. But if you have a political appreciation for what is more valuable to you, at least admit it - tax increases are more valuable to you than an increase in your parental contribution. I respect that, but don't say otherwise. That may be what you're saying, but you've really done everything you can to make sure that the parental contribution isn't approved yet. In summary, because of the fact that there were no reasonable amendments, we could not support this bill in the final vote. However, we have decided not to take part in the final vote. We consider the procedure for today's meeting and vote last Friday to be illegal, we have honestly participated in negotiations and debates on amendments, or voting on amendments, but we will not, by our presence, legitimize your illegal conduct, repeated illegal conduct, as the Constitutional Court states. So there will be an increase in taxes contrary to the law, precisely because you are unable to present draft laws in time, and precisely because you are unable or willing to hold a political debate. I quite enjoyed today's speech by the Minister of Culture, although I did not agree with its content, and I do not do it often, sometimes yes, as he called us not to do the obstructions. We didn't do any obstructions, anyone who wants to look at the tapes of members of the Civic Democrat Club. So I remembered the year 2011 when MEPs, especially the Czech Social Democratic Party, were defiling here. Even in the debate on economic laws, a Lebanese poet was quoted here and our knowledge was enriched by Lebanese poetry, at that time Lubomír Zaorálek, one of the leaders of the opposition, did not protest and did not consider it a reduction in the seriousness of the Chamber of Deputies. The citizens' Democrats will not vote in favour of raising taxes and will not participate in the final vote, because the procedure chosen by the government majority, that is, the Communists, the Socialists and the members of the ANO movement, is clearly against the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Miroslav Kalousek has given priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for understanding with which you gave us a 20-minute recess for the club meeting. We needed advice on how the amendments went, how we will proceed, and I am authorized by TOP 09 to inform you that our government draft law club amending certain tax laws will not support the 509 House press. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Allow me to justify this position. In the ten groups, we have dealt with a wide range of amendments here, because, of course, this is not one law, it is a total of nine laws that we are amending by this decision, and the voting procedure has been divided into ten groups. They were proposals for rejection and possible legislative technical adjustments, amendments containing amendments to the Real Estate Tax Act, amendments containing amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Reserves Act for the detection of income tax bases, amendments containing amendments to the Law on excise duties, amendments containing amendments to the Act on administrative charges, amendments containing amendments to the Act on stabilization of public budgets, also related to proposals amending the Gaming Tax Act, and amendments containing amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, last but not least amendments repealing the Senate's legislation on taxation on the acquisition of immovable property and amendments containing amendments to the Gaming Act, it was that Section 59 concerning poker players. I will begin with the greatest absurdity agreed by the Chamber of Deputies today, namely with the approved amendment by Mr Veselý G1 and Mr G2, which condemns the government coalition from complete hypocrisy when it argues against this law that it is fighting addiction. You have approved, ladies and gentlemen, that where, without any doubt, dependence arises and carries significant social costs, these are technical games and slot machines, which will not be taxed any more, there is a tax rate left, but absolutely sharp and I would say an unprecedented increase in the tax rate for lotteries, even much more than expected by the government proposal, not from 23 to 30, but to 35 percent. [[13.40 hours]] There is no evidence of any dependence on lottery games. There's evidence of addiction to slot machines. Anyone who's been through some workplace, I've been through a few factories, so we know that betting Sports or once popular Sazka was a social entertainment that's been building up a team of workers, and I haven't noticed in my whole life that someone would get addicted to it. There you significantly increased by an incredible 12 percent tax burden. Where the addiction actually arises, you have decided to support the dependence and not to move with the tax rate compared to Mr Dolejš and Mr Onderka's amendment. This is indeed a fundamental question, a question of dependence and a question of the social costs of this dependence. A fundamental issue, which not only causes considerable controversy in the professional environment, is the issue of the rationality of a gambling player or the rationality of a dependent player. Can a player who's spent his savings and has ruined his family be considered a rational and acting player? With the offer of a negative response comes a study from authors of Australia's Productivity Commission strictly rejecting Beckerův's theory of rational dependence. According to her, an addict is not capable of rational thinking, and the state is supposed to help him in this regard, if no longer directly institutional care, then at least by limiting the emergence of addiction through barriers applied to gambling operators, but to the kind of gambling on which the player's activity is actually dependent, or by regulating the player's activities itself. The State should also facilitate the rational decision-making of players by providing them with more information, e.g. instructs operators to provide players with more information to balance the information asymmetry they face. Now, ladies and gentlemen, remember what information you're sending to the players now. You send players information - lotteries are as harmful as slot machines in our opinion. On the basis of all the studies, political and expert discussions, we have discovered that the lotteries are just as harmful as slot machines, and that is why we are going to tax them at the same rate of 35 percent. You really are making a major misinformation to those who are addicted. And for this crucial misinformation, if this law is passed, as if it were, and it is likely that it will not become effective at 1. 1. 2020 but it will certainly take effect at 1. 7. 2020 as of 1. 7. 2020 you will be responsible for the fact that the state sends information to the players' sphere by its law that lottery betting is as dangerous as slot machines, that Sportka is as dangerous as slot machines. It's probably the same as approving the law that marijuana is as dangerous as heroin. It's just nonsense. And it's a nonsense you're making, and you're fundamentally influencing the gambling environment, especially the youngest, because a person between the 18th and 20th years has a tendency to believe the information that comes to him, and when he finds out that Sports is as dangerous as slot machines, well, why wouldn't he go to those machines? Liberal economists argue against these compelling arguments about rationality that human action is necessarily rational. The ultimate goal of action is always to satisfy a person's wishes, and no one is qualified to determine what would make someone else happier or less happy. Critics often say what they think they would do in the place of other people, or with the arrogance of dictators recklessly ignore the will and desires of others and declare what the conditions of these other people would be better suited to them, critics themselves. - That was a quote, please. Since each act is held for a purpose and since this purpose cannot be assessed from the outside, each act must be considered rational. Although this definition is not perfect, it is useful in two points - each individual's actions are the result of an extremely complex and absurdly complex decision-making process depending on many factors, and the concept of irrational behaviour is very easily exploitable to impose its own needs on others. In this issue of rational dependence - and please take this in quotation marks, of course, the question is whether addiction can or cannot be rational, you are contributing to this, of course, because you are putting Sportka on the same page as slot machines - is the Chicago school, where economics in this concept is not significant in its content, but in its method, i.e. comparing revenues and costs. The individual in every situation - whether consciously or unconsciously - compares revenues and costs, better said, marginal yields and marginal costs, and at the same time faces uncertainty. Like a car driver, he doesn't know if an accident will happen on his way home, and he doesn't want it to happen to him, even a starting player on a vending machine or with a drug experimenting high school kid doesn't want to fail addiction and with a certain probability doesn't fail. So if, according to this theory, we call gambler irrational, we must also identify any risky-acting individual who simply did not wish happiness and had an accident. There are very rare situations in the real world where it would pay to act without any potential costs or risks. Thus, risky behaviour cannot simply be classified as irrational, as each individual is struggling with it to a certain extent. Let us say that the initial decision whether to consume potentially something addictive is generally an irrational decision. Dependence as such, however sorry the individual later regrets it - of course, everyone who has believed you that slot machines are as dangerous as Sport, and that therefore they cannot fail addiction - no matter how sorry the individual later regrets it, it is not an irrational decision, because it was not his intention. If such an individual could decide, he wouldn't become an addict. As a result of irrational decision, we call the idea of addiction an example of logical deception. [[Noise in the hall.]] So, if we sum up the knowledge about the rationality of an addicted player, this is not a trivial problem at all. As irrational as the gamblers seem to act, it is an act dependent on the condition in which the individual did not want to find himself and from which it is very difficult to get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, let the President hear his arguments and the opinion of the TOP 09. Please, Mr. Chairman, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u237	Thank you, Mr President. They put costs very difficult to understand and even more difficult to assess in front of the individual by someone other than the individual himself. Only if a gambler can overcome these costs will he recover through rational action from his addiction. From this position it is also harder to justify certain regulation and government action. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] The second aspect to be analysed in the context of gambling is causality or comorbidity. These are the root causes of the problem. Often there is another cause behind pathological gambling and addiction. A man meeting the criteria of manic disorder is not responsible for his pathological acting, because playing itself is the result of this disorder. We must therefore be very careful in calculating social costs. For example, is gambling a problem with depression? Or is he responsible for gambling depression? If we wrongly determine the causality direction, we will solve the result based on such a bad analysis and not the cause of the problem. The analysis of the global gambling problem must therefore count on comorbidities, which reduce possible social costs that are not really associated with gambling, that is to say, with a result but with another cause. In this regard, thinking about what really is addiction and what is more dangerous is whether the sportka or the slot machines are really essential. You're convinced it's dangerous the same way. But let's say what social costs are the addiction of playing on slot machines. The fact is that calculating social costs is not easy. However, the specific results of the calculation have absolutely fundamental impacts on the form of regulation. If the calculation of social costs is not supported by reliable data and by a clear and accurate method, the estimates of authors often move only at levels of speculation. This claim can be easily substantiated by how different estimates differ from each other. Estimates of social costs per pathological player on slot machines in the United States amount to $2,974 a year. Another study indicates a range of 15 to 33 thousand. dollars a year. And it's similar in Bohemia. While the authors of one study estimate the cost of all gambling players in the Czech Republic from 14 to 16 billion. CZK, Mayor Karel Nešpor from the Psychiatric Hospital Bohnice is estimated to be up to 25.6 billion. Crowns. All-social cost of dependent gamblers, and they're the ones on the slot machines, if we keep the upper limit, they're 25 billion. Kroner, if we were to hold the lower limit, it would be 15 billion. Crowns. And you're convinced that those who bet Sport are worth so much company here because the gamblers on the slot machines, too. I would dare tell you that this is certainly not and that this is one of the many reasons why we will not accept this proposal and therefore it is not possible to support the law. A relatively careful analysis of social costs in the context of gambling brings interesting studies of Mr. Walker and Mr. Bernet. In addition to the definition of social costs and the definition of what social costs are and how they are measured, there are also frequent errors made by authors of relevant work. It is mainly not to distinguish social costs from transfers and cash externalities from technological externalities. The authors define the social costs themselves as the amount by which the activity reduces aggregate social wealth. So we see that the very definition of these costs is very vague. One can speculate about what is the social wealth, what belongs to it, and whether individual wealth of individuals can be aggregated at all, because wealth and benefits are very subjective. The above is also related to the known Paretův criterion, i.e. that the change in the current state will improve social wealth only if the situation of at least one participant improves and, at the same time, the situation of someone else does not deteriorate. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] The first problem is the distribution of social costs and transfers. Transfer, let us understand it in the context of calculating the social cost of gamblers, is a change in the given situation where only redistributing wealth from one person to another, but the sum of aggregated wealth remains unchanged. The transfer must therefore not be included in the calculation of social costs, since it has not reduced the net amount of social wealth, it has only allocated it differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u238	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u239	We must now realise that if you vote in favour of the law, then you must be aware of your co-responsibility for the support of Mr Veselý's amendment, as these effects are not produced by the private sector alone, the State can also be the creator of social costs. That is why it is important to focus on transfer and social costs, which are often produced by the unforeseen consequences of state regulations. While the tax as a transfer of money from the payer's private account to the Ministry of Finance's account is merely a transfer, the cost of their collection is social costs, as well as a change in the pattern of consumption as a common unforeseen consequence of government regulation. While voluntary payment and allocation of resources do not produce social costs, involuntary payment produces them. In the context of pathological play, I warn you that bad debts caused by gambling losses are only transfers and have no business in social costs, but the resources spent on collecting these debts are. Similarly, transfers are borrowed, or received money from family and friends, or lost productivity of work and compensation of unemployment. The second problematic aspect is the issue of externalities. While technological externality increases the necessary amount of resources to produce the same amount of output, monetary externality only harms a specific individual, but does not affect the overall aggregate wealth of the company, as it does not affect the quantity of resources needed to produce that quantity of product. Imagine that the family lost money on food thanks to the gambling of its provider, so it is externality, but the gambler's behaviour affected only his family, and not the production, or the utility of the entire company. The wealth has only been redistributed from this family to a gambler who was more successful, virtually. To the casino. This is therefore the externality of monetary, not technological. Although the situation is unfavorable and reprehensible to the family, this phenomenon cannot be counted against social costs. The last factor that is often lacking in the work that evaluates the impact of gambling on society is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u240	Mr President, I am sorry, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I now have no choice but to interrupt your speech, but also to interrupt the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u241	I totally respect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u242	It's 2:00. I must interrupt the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I state that the 36th meeting will continue after the 38th meeting, which is convened for Friday at 9 p.m., and we will continue the 35th meeting at 15.30 p.m. on a fixed basis. [[A messenger called for the word. Chvojka.]] There's nothing else I can do, and I've closed the meeting, and I've interrupted it by Friday. I cannot imagine any other procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I will give the President of the House of Deputies another word, but we are acting outside the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u243	I was going to suggest that we continue with this - perhaps I say this well - 36th meeting on Friday at 9.15 pm, and I applied before 14 o'clock left in quotation marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u244	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u245	I am convinced that it is after 14 o'clock and that the meeting was adjourned by the President. We are acting outside the meeting, of course, at this point, but, after all, the President has left the seat, and if the President leaves the seat, the meeting is adjourned. [[I'm sorry. The Fiala sits behind the desk of the President]] [[From the diaper: He didn't leave!]] So outside the meeting, I will almost unbelievably reflect on your proposal, Mr Chvojka, through the already absent Mr President... [[He's present!]] He's there. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Because you said how much you care, and we agree on that to vote for the parental allowance this week. On Friday morning, an emergency meeting begins with a parental contribution. Why do you want to push it away? What's your reason? Tens of thousands of families are waiting for this contribution, we all want to support it, let's support it and don't complicate it! Don't complicate it, Mr Chvojka, with obstructions and constructions of some -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I, in my opinion, have suspended the 36th meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal made by President Chvojka can be repeated at 3:30 a.m. and we can vote on it. Nothing's gonna happen. But let us act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Disapproval of government MPs.]] It is true, because the extraordinary meeting had an approved agenda and at 14 o'clock we interrupted this meeting in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll give the floor to Minister Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u247	Mr Vice-President, I am very sorry, but I am convinced that you have not acted correctly, and at the moment you interrupted the meeting, in a situation where, although it was not possible to discuss laws at third reading, I agree, but it was possible to apply a procedural proposal in the course of the meeting. A colleague of Chvojka reported in. This is evident also from the CCTV footage, so I have no choice but to object to your procedure, so that the House will decide by voting whether or not the interruption of the meeting you decided was in accordance with the will of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u248	I saw President Chvojka's application after 2:00 p.m. [[Speech of disapproval of the government coalition.]] But, of course, it is possible to object to the President's procedure. Did you? [[Yes.]] Then we'll vote on it. Okay. [[Applications from the diaper for check-out.]] I can hear you, and of course you'll be checked out. I have called in Members and Members in accordance with practice, and I am waiting for the number of entries to be settled. We are now voting on the opposition to the President's procedure that the President, i.e. I, should have made it possible to vote on the procedural proposal of the President of the ČSSD Chvojka parliamentary club. I think that's understandable. I am voting on the objection to the President's procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 69, 149 Members voted in favour of 97, against 37. Objection received. I therefore respect it and will vote on Mr Chvojka's procedural proposal. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u249	Mr Vice-President, the Minister of the Interior as former President of the Chamber of Deputies is very experienced and he knows as well as I do that once the meeting has been interrupted, it cannot be changed. That's just a fact. It's just true. Take a look at the Rules of Procedure, Minister, and I think you might know that. It doesn't really matter. We're okay with that. I just want to demonstrate the utilitarian and purposeful interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. That's all. If you look at the Rules of Procedure, it is written that the President will close and announce when the meeting will continue. That's exactly how it's written in the Rules of Procedure. Yes, if a procedural motion were made in time, before he ended it, you're absolutely right... [[Speech of disapproval of government MPs. - Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - I'm begging for peace!]] Thank you. If it was spoken in time, then, of course, before the President announces it, you are right. But it really doesn't matter if we start at 9:15 or 10:00. It just doesn't matter. But you can see that you don't have a drop of generosity!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u250	President of KSČM Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u251	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, once again it turns out that when two do the same, it is not always the same. We went through a similar situation a while ago, when this Chamber of Deputies called for, and then even further on various meetings and Gremies, called on the President, and I think it was Vice-President Okamura who did not look well enough for the House, the Chamber Hall, and overlooked the application in a similar situation at a similar time. I bear witness that my colleague Chvojka applied at the time when the last speaker, Mr Kalousek, spoke, and you, Mr President of the ODS party and Vice-President of the House, were on purpose - I can see it, I can see it that way, can't I? - did not look in this direction at all, so you could not even see Mr. fellow President of ČSSD Chvojka's MP, as he claims. Please, it's the same situation as it was. That's when we took it into consideration. I'm begging you to consider this now. Nothing more, nothing less. Otherwise, it is clear that it is the Civil Democratic Party, which, in turn, also through the procedure of its President as Vice-President of the House and the President of this meeting, obsessed with the adoption of those social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u252	You are wrong, Mr President, and I will not take advantage of the position I have now, but I am putting myself in a position to direct this meeting against it. I admitted, although I could insist on interrupting the meeting, so I admitted applications with priority rights. I have accepted the objection, the vote on opposition to my procedure, I have corrected my procedure on the basis of the majority decision of the Chamber of Deputies, and I think that, from this point of view, the matter is in order. So I do not accept this complaint and I am trying hard, and you all know it, you all know it, to proceed impartially in the management of meetings and so that we all have a chance and to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's all I'm gonna say, I'd sign up for a priority-law discussion later. President Kalousek is now registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u253	Through Mr President, well, Mr President of the KSČM Club. In view of the fact that President Chvojka has only overlooked him, why do you give him such a right, and why have you taken it away from my twenty-four colleagues who joined the debate when I was still speaking? So they shouldn't have logged in anymore? And that was unfair? And that was unsensory? So you realize that you're always arguing the opposite way, perhaps even dialectical materialism wouldn't give such a purposeful interpretation of the argument. I would like to say that we do not block, we do not block from voting on the parental contribution. That's what you're blocking if you support the procedural leader of Chvojka. An emergency parent's allowance meeting is called for Friday at 9:00 a.m. If you postpone it, you're obstructing your parental allowance, and you don't want it to be accepted, or you don't want it to be delayed. It's as simple as that. If you want a parental allowance, come vote him out Friday at 9:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u254	Now, let me just remind you that a procedural proposal has been made. I do not wish to deny the floor to President Kováčik if he is referring to this procedural proposal, but we should vote for it. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u255	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to ask that, without further unnecessary talk, we vote on the procedural proposal. And to the address of my colleague Kalousek through you, Mr President, the talk is about your goat, my car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-001-001.u256	There. Without commenting, we will proceed to the vote. The President Chvojka's procedural motion was heard. The House has decided that we will vote on it, so we will vote on it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, registered by 158 Members, for 99 against 56. The motion was accepted. I am now interrupting the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll continue at 3:30 p.m. 35th meeting.
