ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u1	131. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the adoption of an amendment to Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (the House Press 234/ - first reading) In this case, the Minister of Culture will present this proposal as an absent foreign minister, in accordance with the Government's mandate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the amendments in question to Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court are supplemented by three new elements of war crimes: 1. the use of weapons using microbiological or other biological agents or toxins, whatever their origin or method of production; 2. the use of weapons the primary effect of which is an injury to shrapnels which are undetectable by X-rays in the human body; 3. the use of laser weapons specifically designed to cause permanent blinding of unprotected vision, i.e. by their exclusive combat action or one of the combat effects. unprotected eyes or eyes fitted with aids to correct vision. These facts will be applicable both at the time of the international armed conflict and at the time of the armed conflict of a non-international nature. The relevant definitions of the facts copy the facts of these crimes under international law as set out in the relevant international treaties. The Czech Republic is a party to all these international treaties. The purpose of extending the category of war crimes prosecuted by the International Criminal Court is to increase the protection of victims and to achieve the punishment of the perpetrators of these crimes. I therefore believe that you will support the Government's proposal to adopt amendments to Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Jiří Strýček, who has the floor now. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, as mentioned by the Minister, this is the second extension of the category of war crimes referred to in Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Three new facts of war crimes are therefore added: - the use of weapons using microbiological or other biological agents or toxins, whatever their origin or method of production; - the use of weapons the primary effect of which is an injury to shrapnels which are undetectable by X-rays in the human body; - and, thirdly, the use of laser weapons specifically designed to cause permanent blinding of unprotected vision, i.e. by their exclusive fighting effect or one of the fighting effects, unprotected eyes or eyes fitted with aids to correct vision. These definitions of the factual elements copy the facts of the crimes under international law as set out in the relevant international treaties. The Czech Republic is a party to all these international treaties and the proposed changes are in line with the already existing international legal obligations of the Czech Republic. The purpose of the national discussion of the amendments to Article 8 of the Rome Statute is to complete the process of expressing consent to these amendments, which was initiated by co-submitting a draft resolution by the Czech Republic The Assembly of the Parties to the Rome Statute subsequently consensually adopted on 14 December 2017 during the 16th session of the Assembly as Resolution ICC-ASP/16/Res.4. Amendments to Article 8 are amendments to the Rome Statute, i.e. an international convention ratified by the Czech Republic pursuant to Article 10a (1) of the Treaty. 1 Constitution of the Czech Republic, Constitutional Act 1/1993 Coll., as amended. Since an amendment to an international treaty must be negotiated nationally in the same way as its negotiation, it is up to the amendments to be adopted. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whereas: 4 The Constitution of the Czech Republic for example the consent of the constitutional majority, i.e. three-fifths of the majority of all Members and three-fifths of the majority of senators present. There are no reservations about these changes to the Rome Statute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Benda is reporting for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u6	Mr Vice-President, we're doing a little too well for my taste, too calmly and calmly, those international treaties, so I'm using the Rome Statute. I will get off to the second part, the following point, which I consider even more controversial, but perhaps some of the memorials remember that I have repeatedly said here that we should not accept the Roman Statute, that I consider it an extremely contradictory matter. If we pretend to have an international criminal law that has not ratified key powers - neither the United States, nor Russia, nor China, have ratified it, about countries like Israel and others that are really at risk, not to mention, it seems to me that it's like playing something. I do not have any fully detailed reservations about these three changes, I will have that further reservation, but I recommend that we order this draft international treaty to the constitutionally-legal committee, and I think we should ask the government for an overall evaluation of how it works so far. Frankly, we were there on a visit to the Constitutional Legal Committee. These are gigantic buildings, where the important judge of the Czech Republic is Dr. Fremr, but which have so far managed to condemn about 11 people and seven of them in absentia. Now I don't want to over-exaggerate the numbers. I think that this is a bit of an institution for an institution and that we should at least, if we want to discuss this change and we need to get three fifths here, here and in the Senate, give information about how it works, and not that it's going just sort of on its own and we're sort of dealing with it. So I suggest that this be ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u7	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No, that is the end of the debate. Interest in final words - it is not. Madam... for debate? So I have already closed the debate, but if there is no objection. Oh, I'm sorry, no one's objecting. The Member will have the floor. brát this a mistake of the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u8	I'm so sorry. I applied before the end of the debate. Thank you. I was wondering if we should also deal with this in the Security Committee, if Mr Koten's Chairman of the Security Committee agrees with my eye contact, I'll suggest it. I suggest it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-014-131.u9	Thank you. Of course, after the debate, I would call for proposals on the commandments to the committees. But it can, of course, also be heard in the general debate. I am now ending the general debate. And the final words won't be. We have here a proposal for a foreign committee to deal with this, and here is the proposal for a constitutional committee and a proposal for a security committee. I don't think there was any other proposal. We will gradually vote on these proposals as they have been tabled. First, we will decide on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 229, 171 Members signed in for 149, against none. The motion has been approved. We will now decide on the allocation to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 230, 172 Members registered, for 145, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. And now we will vote on the commandment to the Security Committee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 231, 172 Members signed in for 134, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign, constitutional and security committee. I'm done discussing this point. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. Let's go to point number
