ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u1	38. Government bill on double taxation in relation to Taiwan /German press 434/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. And he'll be ready... [[Member Lipavsky claims he was next.]] Well, yes, you will speak subsequently, and please be prepared, Mr Lipavský, and you will be given the floor afterwards. Thank you for reminding me. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to Taiwan. One of the goals of Czech foreign policy is the development of versatile and mutually beneficial economic relations with other states and jurisdictions, including Taiwan. Taiwan ranks among industrialised countries and so-called Asian tigers. The main industries are information technology, metal processing and electrical and chemical industries. Economic relations between Taiwan and the Czech Republic. The total turnover for 2017 is almost 30 billion crowns. Trade balance significantly in favour of Taiwan, as the large volume of exports is in the Czech Republic. Taiwan invests in the electrical industry in the Czech Republic and exports these goods to the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic then exports cars, microscopes and tyres to Taiwan. The areas of energy, bio- and nanotechnologies, aviation industry and green technologies are prospective for the application of Czech companies on the Taiwan market. Some forms of economic relations and income resulting therefrom may give rise to the tax liability of residents of the Czech Republic in Taiwan and vice versa. In these cases, international double taxation of income is currently taking place, thereby reducing the income generated by residents of one jurisdiction from another's jurisdiction. Given the fact that the Czech Republic does not recognise Taiwan as a state, it is not possible to conclude an international double taxation treaty with it and thus eliminate one of the obstacles to economic cooperation with it. The draft law unilaterally replaces the double taxation treaty, with Taiwan being expected to adopt similar national measures. The double taxation rules contained in the Act correspond to the text of the standard international double taxation conventions, i.e. which are created under the OECD Model Contract, for the purpose of maintaining reciprocity in relation to Taiwan, which nationally adopts the same measures and ensuring the same interpretation of individual provisions as in the interpretation of international agreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u3	Now... [[A Member of the Austrians is reporting for the floor.]] Would you like to speak with priority rights? Right now? So you're party leader, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Just a quick note. Of course, I am pleased that we are dealing with this measure in relation to Taiwan. I think it's definitely necessary. And I would just like to ask members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic to treat our Taiwanese partners with dignity during meetings with, for example, Chinese business partners, and not keep them waiting at the door. To show that we really appreciate Taiwan as the Czech Republic and that not being recognised as a state does not mean that we will not treat it as an important business partner. I think that Czech government policy, and not only the foreign mouths of Minister Petříček, but of all the members of the government, should show that we are a state that is not afraid that we are a state that does not hunch and that we are a state that simply does not leave our partners just because we are frightened to wait at the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u5	Yes. So I will use your input to read the apologies before giving the rapporteur the floor. So Mr. Petr Gazdík apologizes from 15 o'clock for medical reasons. And between 15 and 18 o'clock, for reasons of work, President Milan Hnilička apologizes. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Lipavský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u6	Hello. I'll be very brief on my intelligence report. The Organizing Committee recommended to refer this press to the Foreign Committee at its 35th meeting of 4 April. So then we'll get a chance to talk about how we're dealing with China's policy. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u7	Thank you. And so I am now opening up a general debate and I have here with the priority right of Minister Petříček. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Otherwise, no one else entered into the general debate... so also President Bartošek. And for some reason - just please, here in the House, that I have about 15 factual points here. And now I want to ask Mr Skopeček, Mr. Němcová, Mr. Baxa, Mr. Martin, if you have applied to this point in fact. I don't think so. [[He's arguing with the MPs.]] Well, I already have it as a committee, even though it's factual. [[Nesroz.]] So it's just... Mr. Skopeček, Němcová, Baxa, Martinů, Beitl, Bauer, Žáček, Ventruba, Mauritzová, Bělica... so if you're not on de facto, we're gonna erase you, okay? There. So please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly speak in support of this draft law on the prevention of double taxation in relation to Taiwan. The adoption of a double-tax instrument in relation to Taiwan is one of the long-term priorities in terms of developing economic relations. I would add that, within the European Union, many countries have already taken similar measures, similar to the EU, and the Czech Republic is doing so despite the fact that we have one Čína policy. Among other things, it is the Netherlands, Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark, Hungary or France. The adoption of the bill will certainly have a positive impact on the relations between the Czech Republic and Taiwan. And I would also like to respond to the honourable Member. We are interested in maintaining fair relations with Taiwan in areas that we have clearly defined, while also respecting international diplomatic and protocol issues. Therefore, I can assure you that in relation to the representatives of Taiwan, we behave with dignity and correctness. From a foreign policy point of view, the adoption of the proposed legislation is also very desirable. Taiwan is not only a very important investor in the Czech Republic. His investments amount to 26 billion. CZK and more than 17,000 were created. jobs through these investments. However, we also share common values with Taiwan, such as democracy or respect for human rights. The situation of Taiwan, which the Czech Republic does not recognise as a state, is of course non-standard, and it is therefore not possible to negotiate a standard international contract. The solution is therefore proposed by means of two separate unilateral measures, i.e. on our side in the form of a law. I'd just ask for your support. I think this bill is a step in the right direction and will contribute to the further development of relations with Taiwan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u9	Another for the general debate is Mr Marka Benda. [[This is the messenger. Jan Bartošek.]] And with priority rights, yes, President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Bartošek. I'll read one apology. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes from 15.00 to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this bill and, at the same time, to appreciate the Government's approach because really economic exchange, trade between the Czech Republic and Taiwan is extraordinary. I appreciate the removal of unnecessary barriers to this trade. I personally believe that this is a law that is not controversial is quite simple. For this reason, I am making a proposal to shorten the committee procedure to 20 days. I mean, ten days to 20 days. I also ask you to support this bill because I believe it is important to develop cooperation with partners with whom we have good relations and also good trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u11	Well, thank you. And now we are continuing the general debate. So I don't see priority rights. Mr. Marek Benda. I'm gonna ask you to perform. More? ano, with priority rights once again the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u12	I'm sorry. I'll specify my proposal. Shortening the deadline for 30 days for committee discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u13	Okay, I'm marked. Shortening the deadline to 30 days. Yes. I will now ask Mr Marek Benda to speak and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I, too, would like to thank the Government of the Czech Republic for submitting this bill. Thus, especially to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been represented in the past by other persons, but at the moment it is represented by Minister Petříček, thank him for coming up with this, and also by Minister Schillerová, in the way it was handled. I have been focusing on issues related to Taiwan for perhaps the whole time I have been in the Chamber of Deputies, which is quite a few years now, and since 2006, I have been chairman of an informal group of friends between the Czech Republic and Taiwan. The issue of avoiding double taxation has been addressed for many years. Never on either side, neither on the Czech side nor on the Taiwanese side, was the problem factual. It is not that there is no will to take any measures that would lead to preventing double taxation, simplifying investment and, of course, simplifying the situation of residents in one country or another. Of course, the whole time, the problem was to a large extent precisely how to legally grasp it, how to circumvent the fact that the Czech Republic respects one China's policy, that is, it does not recognise Taiwan as one independent country, at the same time it is aware that it is a separate economic territory that is not managed by strangers and with which we have to maintain and want to maintain - for the reasons that have been mentioned here in the reference reports - good and above-standard relations, and where there is a significant interest in mutual trade. I think that the solution that was finally chosen - and indeed those consultations in particular from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the last ten years - has been a whole series. And when we look at solutions that are chosen differently in Europe, they are very, very, let's say, creative. They all go around the same problem and all of them in some way - and almost no solution in the individual countries is exactly the same. I am pleased that this agreement has been signed between the two representative offices representing the commercial economic interests of the Czech Republic in Taiwan and Taiwan in the Czech Republic, and that this is subsequently presented as an annex to the law presented by Minister Schillerová to us to approve. I believe that we will be able to approve it as soon as possible and that we will also succeed in this agreement with Taiwan - so as not to say the treaty, I deliberately say to implement the agreement with Taiwan so that we can continue to deepen trade with each other. I think that, not only in terms of trade, but also in terms of sharing common values, we really have a lot in common with Taiwan and with the people of Taiwan, and it is useful for us to carry out further and further steps to strengthen cooperation and to implement this House as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u15	Thank you. And now I will ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Yes, and with priority rights. There you go. So, with priority rights, the President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr. Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I do not just want to support the proposal for this agreement for the reasons that Marek Benda has spoken about before me, and I do not want to extend it any further. But, as unconventional as it may be, let me tell you that there is a delegation sitting at the top of the guest gallery at the moment, it is a complete coincidence, a delegation of students from Taiwan, from the Feng-song school in Kao-siung, if I say so correctly, which is the partner school of our Pardubice Gymnasium, where I come from. The lively exchange between our school and our partner school in Taiwan has been going on for one and a half years. They're not here for the first time, and it just happened by accident today. We did not place that point as a KDU-ČSL knowing that we would have our friends from Taiwan here. They're waving at you now, yes. And I reminded them a moment ago of the point that we are discussing, and their response was very cordial, and they thanked for the cooperation between the Czech Republic and Taiwan. Then allow me this personal reminder. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u17	Thank you. And now, Mr Leo Luzar will appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I kept wondering why this trade agreement was getting to the fore, why it was being put forward. I guess I already understood it as if it was meant to be humor or serious. Anyway, I'd like to know why this trade agreement is being placed before the others we have. And if you look at the program, we have a huge amount of international treaties waiting. And that there was just a political willingness to put this agreement forward specifically, I was interested, so I would like to answer whether there was any trade pressure or whether there was any pressure on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Finance to speed up the discussion of this agreement in the Chamber of Deputies. [[15.10 hours]] The next thing I was interested in in this matter was the Minister's words that we are the initiates, and we expect the other party to react to our actions on a reciprocal basis. But the trade balance we have with Taiwan would testify to the exact opposite. It is not in our interest, because of course we have a negative trade balance with Taiwan, they bring us significantly more than we do to them, so it is probably beneficial for us in quotation marks so far. And why should the pressure on their part be to prevent double taxation, so that their companies are not harmed in our market, unlike a smaller number of our companies on their market? If I'm wrong, I'd be happy to take it back. I say, I have not followed the development of the trade balance so far, but I assume that the Asian countries and especially Taiwan, which is a very progressive exporter, have these things against Europe and the Czech Republic, and that we are the ones here who pull, as they say, for the shorter end of the rope. I'd be very happy to have the Minister tell me if it's in the Czech interest when we're the instigators. And now purely business, not politically, not in any other way, but purely business, whether it is in our interest or in Taiwan's greater interest. This would be decisive for me in this matter, especially when I have noticed recently, and in the media it has happened, quite a significant promotional activity of Taiwan on the Czech territory, when it goes around various policies at different levels and municipal levels and invites them to visit and tries to present their country, which, of course, in all honesty is good if it does not deflect in these activities skipping and assigning these business ties and contracts ahead of the program of others, which could already raise questions about what is really the reason that we are discussing this contract right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u19	And now, with the factual remark of Mr Marek Benda. Please. Yes. And Secretary Schillerová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u20	I will, of course, leave a chance to respond to Minister Schillerová, who certainly knows all this, but since I am quite a memorial to these Czech-Taiwan relations, I would say that this contract has been prepared for a long time. It is now being reassigned not because it is a treaty, but because it is a bill. Since this is a bill that must be assigned to this treaty, it is not normally in the contract block, of course, but it is in a block of laws that must implement such a contract. And it really is a thing where for at least ten years we have no doubt, unlike some other states in which there were doubts whether or not we are interested... For at least ten years, we have no doubt that we want a double taxation treaty with Taiwan. Only it was not a legal instrument, or it was not an invention of a legal instrument, and for that I am truly grateful to the executive that it comes up with, how to bring such an agreement into effect into our legal order. And perhaps a very lay note, but I can't forgive it to Mr Luzar after all. It does not matter what size of trade I am talking about avoiding double taxation. Please, these are completely different things. This is a question of customs, if any, but which are determined centrally in the European Union, preventing double taxation is the protection of investors, protecting those who earn money in one country or another. And we certainly have great interests there too, but undoubtedly as a large investor in the Czech Republic, the Taiwanese party is also interested, and it is the interest of both parties in the long term. And we've been working on it for a long time, and it's really been pre-classified precisely because it's taken so long to have legal technical training. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u21	Now with the priority right of Secretary Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So let me respond to some of the questions asked. First of all, it's not a deal, it's a law. We cannot conclude with Taiwan precisely because we do not recognise it as a separate state, so we cannot conclude an international treaty. And it's in our interest, I'll give you specific examples right away. If it wasn't in our interest, we wouldn't have. That's just basic information. And now I dare to rely on the facts. It would be easier for her to visit those schoolchildren and their teachers if we had this kind of cooperation and removed all the barriers we have. [[unintelligible.]] We had to go to this law, I explained that. Basically, the development was like this, it took some time for the law to be prepared before the terms were negotiated, because the law itself has a few paragraphs, but of course, the terms were agreed, which was preceded by a whole series of negotiations. It began by signing, at the level of liaison offices, a non-contractual, non-binding document called an agreement. The Czech Economic and Cultural Office in Taipei and the Prague Economic and Cultural Office of both jurisdictions agreed on the adoption of a so-called provision corresponding to standard international agreements to avoid double taxation. And actually, that's what we built the law on. So the proposed law implements this measure, on which these two entities have actually agreed, into the Czech legal system and we expect reciprocally - that is simply common practice, we cannot say, so now is the day D, when we will adopt it equally, so it does not work. But the reciprocity on which this takes place is simply in international law and here in this system of laws. Thus, this procedure, i.e. the signature of a document with Taiwan at the level of the offices of both jurisdictions and the subsequent transposition into national legal systems, is consistent with the usual practice of this territory. For example, this approach recommends a study of the conclusion of international treaties with Taiwan, drawn up by the Parliamentary Institute, a study of October 2006, which points out that this is also a practice common in other Member States of the European Union, in particular France, Belgium, the United Kingdom. As far as the content of the law is concerned, I won't burden you with that. But I would still like to say in general about our trade balance a little bit more detail. Over the last five years, the increase in mutual trade has been 20 percent higher to the current nearly 30 billion. Crowns. Taiwan's investment in the Czech Republic amounts to 26 billion. Crowns. In the Czech Republic there are more than 20 Taiwanese companies, which create 17 thousand. jobs. Especially Foxsconn, Asus, ACER. Cooperation at academic level - about 60 dozen cooperation agreements between universities, exchange programmes for about 200 students per year. 185,000 a year. tourists from Taiwan in the Czech Republic - one third of all Chinese speaking tourists. As far as Czech companies in Taiwan are concerned, Škoda companies have direct representation here, sales of 5 117 cars in 2017 and an increase of 13.7 % compared to 2016, the brand image associated with the traditionally recognized German parent group Volkswagen is gradually becoming the most successful Czech product on the Taiwanese market. Next. Manufacturer of machine tools TOS Varnsdorf, joint stock company. Joint Undertaking with Taiwanese Litz Hightech Corp. - TOS LITZ Machinery Corporation Joint Undertaking with registered capital of 5 million. EUR, in which the Czech side offers know-how to the most advanced multifunctional machine tools. The aim is the production of three new types of horizontal milling machines, 120 pieces per year. Next. Jablotron and Koukaam - safety equipment. Representation of BVV Trade Fairs Brno, joint stock company, through Kaigo, representing Messe Düsseldorf. Kaigo allows Taiwanese exhibitors to become familiar with the market in the Czech Republic. Participation of Taiwanese exhibitors especially at the Engineering Fair in Brno. Memorandum on cooperation with Taiwanese organization to promote foreign trade TAITRA. [[15.20 hours]] Representation of products of Moser and Preciosa glass through Opulent State Life Corporation, 18 stores throughout Taiwan. A manufacturer of design lighting Lasvit. The manufacturer of Botanicus cosmetics builds a network of stores. In 2015 joint-venture of the Czech company RayService Taiwanese SymbolElectronic. Plzeňský Prazdroj supplies to some sales chains. They're trying to break through Budvar and STOK International. Perhaps for your information, for us every treaty - even if this is not a treaty, I repeat, this is a law - every treaty to prevent double taxation is important. At present, the Czech Republic has 88 double taxation agreements in force, namely with 89 states, one in common for Serbia and Montenegro. Another entry into force of the Treaty can now be expected in the case of a contract with Ghana, because it has already been ratified by Parliament, and we negotiate further agreements with Kosovo, before signing it with Oman, Gabon, Botswana, Cameroon, Senegal, Iraq, Bangladesh and so on, with Qatar, Sri Lanka. So we expect to have over 100 double taxation agreements in the foreseeable future, but here, as I said, and as we all understand, it is simply not possible to accept the contract, so it was the way of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u23	That was Madam Secretary. Yes, one moment, I'll read two apologies. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip apologizes for reasons of work, because of negotiations with the Prime Minister of Vietnam between 15 and 17 o'clock, and Mr Jiří Běhounek apologises from 18.45 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Now I have two factual points here. So, Mr rapporteur, although you have priority rights, factual remarks take precedence. So, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. All right, Mr Luzar, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u24	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I do not want to delay this, of course within the classic three readings, because it is therefore a law and it is not an international treaty, it will be able to, I suppose, the Economic Committee to express and address this issue. I just want to point out that the real trade balance is strongly in favour of us according to the numbers you said here, and the massive investment operation of Taiwan on the Czech territory, and from this point of view, my concern is not entirely scattered. The current situation is more economically favourable to Taiwanese companies than to the Czech companies in Taiwan against the Taiwanese government. So from this point of view, I would approach this, especially when it comes to territory that is problematic. Of course, the companies that you listed as part of the trade ties in Taiwan and which are in this preparation are all companies that already operate in all states in Asia, not just Taiwan, and theoretically they might have a different opinion about the business ties they have in that location and which could be at risk to them, possibly. More important. But I do not want to introduce this topic here, I say, we will discuss it, I suppose, in reading within the Economic Committee, but I will be very happy to have these doubts - and I assume that we are not ready for this at the moment in discussion - you will try to distract and I will be able to say yes with a clear conscience, it is beneficial for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u25	Now, therefore, the rapporteur with priority rights, Mr Jan Lipavský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u26	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for actually naming all the companies, the Czech companies that operate in Taiwan, which invest there and put capital there. I would like to say that it is precisely something that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, should support and not become too problematic because foreign investment from the Czech Republic in Taiwan, of course, has the protection of the rule of law in Taiwan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u27	Now for the general debate, Mr Daniel Pawlas, so far the last one entered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u28	Mr President, colleagues, I would have a question through you, Mr President, on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whether there is any analysis of the potential risks of this treaty or not. The law we want to pass here, in relation to the People's Republic of China. Since we know that relations between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan are not ideal, and when we are talking about a good trade balance with Taiwan and the protection of investors of Taiwanese in the Czech Republic, I would like to ask if Czech investors in China and Czech exporters are at risk because we know that the trade balance with China is very bad. And we just want to support Czech exports to China. If this is the right step to support Czech exports to countries like China. So I would like to ask through the President, the Foreign Minister, whether there is any analysis of potential risks and whether he could answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u29	Mr Petříček, now with priority rights, will be prepared with priority rights by the President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u30	Mr President, Members, I will answer the question of the Member very briefly. There's no need to do that kind of analysis. We have clearly set parameters for our relations in relation to Taiwan. This is about cooperation in economic, economic relations, scientific cooperation, cultural cooperation, education. And this is something that the People's Republic of China has always respected, and we are proceeding in the same way as the Member States of the European Union are. And as I said in my opening speech, we have a clear policy towards the People's Republic of China, we have a policy of one China, but that does not prevent us from developing economic relations and building good relations with Taiwan. So there is certainly no risk that this would be negatively or in any way reflected in relations with the People's Republic of China, in addition to our economic cooperation or trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u31	President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Bartošek, now with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u32	Thank you. To your question, Mr. Ambassador. I believe that this is the right step, the Czech government as a government of a separate and sovereign country, and it is a step that promotes mutual exchange, promotes cooperation and future development. I am convinced that we have much in common with Taiwan, whether in the field of cyber security or trade, and it needs to be seen as a partner of the Czech Republic and remove barriers to communication and trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u33	Thank you and I will look around the hall to see if I have any other interested parties for the general debate. I see no one else, so I am ending the general debate. Do I question the final words after the general debate - the rapporteur, Mr Lipavský, Minister Schillerová? You are not interested, after a general debate you are not interested. So now we have not seen any proposals at this stage that we would vote now as regards the return or rejection, so we will now consider the motion for a committee's order for discussion and then we will vote on the shortening of the deadline, as Mr Bartošek suggested. So first, let's decide on the guarantee committee's commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. Mr. Leo Luzar, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u34	I would like to propose that the guarantee committee become an economic committee, because it is not an international treaty, but a trade agreement, or that the economic committee be a guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u35	Okay, so first, we'll vote on your counterproposal. I will arrange for the Members to be called to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Gong.]] Looks like we're in enough quantity here, so I'm gonna repeat one more time what we're gonna vote on. We will vote on Mr Leo Luzar's counter-proposal to make the guarantee committee an economic committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 66 174 Members registered, for 46, against 26. The motion was denied. We will therefore vote on the proposal from the original, draft organizational committee, which has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the foreign committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 67, 174 Members voted in favour of 137, against 1. The result was accepted. And I note that this proposal has been directed to the Foreign Committee as a committee of guarantee. Then I ask whether there is a draft commandment to the next committee or committees. Member Leo Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u36	Mr President, I would therefore suggest that, although the school committee should be offered in view of the school committee's visit to schoolchildren, that it could be discussed in the context of mutual exchange, I would nevertheless like to propose an economic committee, because I think that economic ties should also be discussed by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-007-038.u37	You're proposing the Economic Committee. Yes. I wonder if anyone has another suggestion. I don't see another suggestion. We will vote on whether to bring this proposal to the Economic Committee as the next committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68. 174 Members registered for 78, versus 4. The motion was denied. I have no further proposal on the commandment to other committees, but we will vote one more vote on this proposal. It is Mr Bartošek's proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 69. 174 Members registered, for 118, against 12. The result was accepted. The deadline will therefore be reduced to 30 days for discussion in the Committee. So for now, I am done discussing this press. We'll continue with the next point. It's...
