ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u1	122. Kateřina Valachová, Patrik Nacher, Jan Bartošek and Lukáš Kolářík's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German press 456/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 456/1. I prosit that the proposal put forward in favour of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor, Madame. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, allow me to present the joint parliamentary proposal of these Members and Members. I would like to say that the work on this parliamentary proposal began when we, as Members, learned that before the 18th year of their life, there were children who owed CZK 60 million in total, plus costs, fines, periodic penalty payments, according to the data from 2017. Child's debts represent a real and serious problem that affects children. We have presented a common solution that may not be perfect, but it is quick and enables these children to end up with the great injustice that we believe exists at the moment as petitioners. The parliamentary proposal is simple and I will be very brief, because we have until today's nineteenth hour to discuss this proposal precisely with regard to the interests of the children at first reading, so I will be very brief. The proposal is simple. It says a simple thing: children under 15 years of age, if debts arise from them, let it be debts for waste fees, let it be debts for unpaid books in the library, let it be fare debts, let it be debts made by their irresponsible parents on their account, a simple rule - within 15 years these debts go to parents, legal representatives, and let the state shine on these parents and legal representatives and negotiate the law and do not wait until the age of 18 for a child who could not make up the law until then towards legal representatives, lurking in a birthday cake in the form of an executor, and these children's debts began to recover. This is a simple target. I ask the entire Chamber of Deputies for their support and thank the Members for the YES, KDU-ČSL, Pirates for supporting this proposal. I believe that in a few weeks we will be able to achieve the perfect proposal that we are voting for, and I will ask all other political parties for support and passage to first reading. [[second]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u3	Thank you, Madame. I shall ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, I will try to do everything we can to get it through the first reading today. Nevertheless, the honesty of the rapporteur commands me to mention some of the problematic and unclear points contained in this amendment. Some basic idea was mentioned by the petitioner. I would like to mention a number of points that I think and consider to be controversial and that we should resolve them in the constitutional committee. This amendment fundamentally changes the concept of self-righteousness in the Civil Code. It is now set up that the minor is gradually gaining the capacity to act in a specific legal way. We are going on thin ice here in unexplored waters, because the traditional modification, as it is made from Austrian editing, counts on some, say, precise boundaries, seven, fourteen years in Austria. And we're building a structure here that, within 15 years, the debt of the ex lege at the moment of its inception is transferred to the legal representative. This means, therefore, that if we fundamentally change the concept of rightfulness, we should subject it to a rather fundamental debate in the constitutional law committee and, above all, a debate with civilians and processionists, because this is the most important change actually from recodification itself. As for the comparison with the foreign legislation, I have had an analysis done at the Parliamentary Institute that compares the modification in Austria and Germany, it is not public yet, it is on the Internet, but I will send it to the plaintiffs, and anyone who is interested can contact me, I will gladly send it to him, I think it is good for comparison. [[18.50 hours]] What's the novel coming up with? As I was saying, at the time of the creation of the debt, he passes on to the legal representative. What it can mean in practice and what bad language - they are not bad language, they are leading Czech civilians - claims that if the child cannot be indebted, then we will raise a generation that will be a priori irresponsible, because they will not be debtors, the debt will immediately pass on to parents. So it's a certain deviation from the balance of rights and obligations, when these minors will testify to the rights, but they won't be burdened by the responsibilities associated with it. Furthermore, it is necessary to specify what debts this concerns, why this applies only to the debts of money and from what legal reality it will be. The amendment talks about a debt from a legal event, but a legal event needs to be born or dead, and I don't know how anything could come out of this, which I think is worth clarifying. And then to whom the debts are actually passed. They will also go to foster homes, because the interpretation of these provisions could say that the debt will also be passed on to the foster and not to the legal representative. And what happens when it goes to the state, how does the state enforce it, who does it go to? Furthermore, it is probably necessary to correct a certain amount of delinquent competence, because it is said in the proposal that, when the minor deliberately kicks the ball through the window, the debt does not pass. But if he sets the field on fire out of gross negligence, then the debt - I'll try to speed it up - the debt will simply pass on to the parent with the gross negligence. [[in response to a note from the diaper]] The relationship of the new proposed provision with the specific facts contained in Sections 2920 and 2921 of the Civil Code remains unclear. The confusion is around the penalty, and this is very important, please. We're saying that the debt goes to the parents, and the parent will be able to ask for it when he's 18 years old. We want to make it better, and I very much agree with that. Think of it as criticism. I don't want to bury the proposal. [[Bad hearing in the hall for big noise.]] We're saying that we want to make it easier for young people to enter adulthood, but we're leading them to have their parents come at them at age 18 and say, "Pay it because you've caused the damage here." Let's face it, some of these cases can be families that aren't completely stable and can't deal with it internally without being called to a court case. I'll take the liberty of mentioning some... I'm gonna skip over here, I'm gonna skip over, I'm gonna skip over... Very important thing. Our civil proceedings are based on the formal concept of participation, i.e. that the party is the one you mark in the plea in question in the application to initiate the procedure. It is not possible for us to say that it is enough to mark only one, and the court somehow looks into it under material law. That's impossible. The amendment is also inconsistent in who it actually affects, if it is those under 15 years - in that procedural section there is talk of all minors. And I'm at the end. A significant part of the amendment is also covered by procedural provisions. That means he's forbidding himself from making decisions by default and a judgment for recognition in those matters where this concerns minors. But the minors aren't the debtors at all, that is. It's actually kind of modified beyond that. They are not debtors for a simple reason - the debt is not theirs, the debt is passed on to the parents. And at the same time, one thing that's missing here, and I'm going to end it, and we should add that after my trial, because it's simply missing in the procedural regulation, so it's that a significant part - and we haven't discussed it at all - is that a significant part of the executions and simply the tragic human stories arise from the fact that the courts are calling the defendants to account with a simple call. The simple call is accompanied by a clause in which the court asks: do you agree that we will decide this matter without a regulation? The debtor or the defendant doesn't take over, the simple call can be delivered to a substitute, and the whole process will actually take place without any knowledge of the defendant. These are things that I believe we can deal with. I am not presenting any procedural proposal and I will look forward to the committee meeting. It's definitely not gonna be easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I, on behalf of the four MPs, KDU-ČSL, social democracy, Pirates and the ANO movement, make a procedural proposal for us to act and vote both factually and territorially after 19 o'clock before discussing this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u7	Yes, thank you. I've already summoned colleagues from the lobby, and we'll give them a moment to attend. I take the application with priority rights to the debate, Madam Secretary, first in the debate. We will open the debate and speak to the Minister. I think the number of people present has stabilized. We are voting to discuss this point after 7:00 p.m. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 834, Mr 168, in favour of 116, against 1. The motion was accepted. I am opening up a general debate, and in it the first will speak with the priority right of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u8	Good evening, honourable Members, Mr President. I would like to apply the Government's position here. It was difficult to decide on May 6 on the government. Originally, we had a neutral position, but I gave it priority and passage at my own risk, and I finally gave a favourable opinion on the government with this proposal. However, this does not mean that we do not have several reservations. They are specified up to eight points. I'm sure the applicant has the eight points. We only draw attention to those important things that need to be taken into account, and I assume you will improve this in the course of the next negotiations. First of all, we would like to draw attention to the fact that there may be preconceived consequences -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u9	I'm gonna cut you off for a second and ask for some peace in the room. Thank you. If you have anything to discuss, please go to the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u10	We also pointed out the relationship between the amendment of the proposed new Section 36a of the Civil Code to the legislation contained in § 2920, 2921, where this overlaps somewhat. And then I would like to point out that, at the same time, with the debt to the State, it should be clarified who the State should act for. It completely absents the adjustment of instruments that would enable the State to prevent such facts. So these are probably problematic points. Otherwise, I stress once again that I do not want to hinder this proposal, which I consider decent and in which, I think, the positives prevail against the negatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next up, Mr Nacher is entered into the debate. I'm sure it's short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, have a nice evening. I'm sorry it wasn't until 7:00 p.m. to come to this important point, but thank God for the gifts, I was afraid we wouldn't discuss it at all tonight. I'll be brief, I think the rest will be discussed with my fellow rapporteur, Dominik Feri, at second reading. It is important to know that the purpose of the law is to provide special protection for minors. The question "why is there a cash debt" is that we, as petitioners, were originally working with the debt, but also on the notice of the Ministry of Justice, we specified it on the money debt precisely so that there would not be any confusion. As far as the educational moment is concerned, it's very obvious. Today, there are situations where the debt is being imposed on a child, and the parent just doesn't know it at all, because he's not the addressee, so he accumulates, accumulates, and when he's 18 years old, at that point, he's gonna blow it out on him multiple of the original debt, the principal. The educational moment is that when it comes to the parent, the legal representative, he's gonna deal with his kid right away. [[19.00 hours]] Furthermore, I would like to point out that if you read this thoroughly, there is an exception to the intentionally incurred damage, which, of course, does not logically concern it. At the same time, we are prepared to do so at the moment by transferring it to legal representatives, or to those who are raising these children at present, but also by agreeing that this proposal was given great media attention before we discussed it here, then we will submit an amendment that should only be dealt with through legal representatives. This means that I think there is clear evidence that we are experiencing feedback, and we are also adjusting this proposal for an amendment to the Civil Code. The last point, to be really brief, as I was urged by the President, is that we are talking here about the debts that arise from now on to the future. Of course, we also have to deal with how to solve children's debts, or today, as well as adults, which have arisen in their childhood in the past. One thing is how this is handled at municipal level, the other is what we are going to propose here in the Chamber of Deputies. So I would like to ask for your support with the fact that this is a mix of various measures, where the aim is to resolve child debt that is unprecedented in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next for the debate is Mr Bartošek. I'm sorry, I'll read an apology. Mrs Majerová Zahradníková apologizes from 19 o'clock to the end for personal reasons. Vice-President Filip apologizes from 19 am to the end for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me very briefly. Colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to release this press for further reading. Let us give children a chance to have a future that is not burdened with debt. Let's give them a chance to start their lives and not have to drag the tens of thousands that burden them with their start in life. This is really about innocent action, it does not concern conscious action, such as spray-painting of trams and the like. Of course, the debts would remain. I'm not worried about families and their upbringing. Every family that works and where they care about what their children do, so at the moment when the child comes in with debts, I firmly believe that the family will explain inside and say that the children will not make debts and do not drive themselves black. It is important that parents have this information. I thank you, and once again I ask you to support this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr President Výborný, then Mr Kolářík as another of the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At that point, I said yesterday it was too late. Really, thank God for discussing this proposal as quickly as possible here in the Chamber of Deputies, because the problem with the unprecedented debt of children is huge and it is the duty of our Members, and I am glad that there is a consensus across the parliamentary clubs, it does not matter what shirt - opposition, coalition, government, non-governmental - we are, but we need to address this matter. I very much welcome that. On Tuesday next week, the subcommittee on enforcement, insolvency and debt relief will meet in the morning, and de facto the only item on the agenda will be this amendment, so that we can discuss it on the subcommittee and then go to the Constitutional Committee with the opinion of the subcommittee. I'm sure there are some small things that are still there, as the professional public, foster parents and others are also responding, but we're ready to do that, and I'm glad and I hope that there will be a second and third reading very quickly to send this proposal to the Senate and it was quickly approved to deal with the situation that is here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u17	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador Kolářík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't keep you long. I would really like to ask, as one of the petitioners, to be released for further reading. I believe there won't be a problem. I would like to thank the rapporteur for preparing such a nice intelligence report, and I would just like to call on him to do so on the subcommittee, where we can discuss it in detail. Thank you for your vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-019-122.u19	Very good, thank you. I ask if there is anyone else's interest in speaking on this point. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's interest in the final words. It's not like that. There was no motion to return or to refuse, so we will deal with the commandments of the committees. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a committee other than a committee of constitutional law? [[Gong.]] It's not like that. We will take the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 835 at this time 165 Members, for 125, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask if there is a motion for a commandment to another committee. I don't see anyone. I note that other proposals for shortening or extending the deadline have not been made, and I am ending the first reading of this press. Thank you all. May I have your attention, please? Tomorrow we continue at 9 o'clock by the point of written interpelation. Based on the agreement of the parties, if there is only one interpelation and it ends before ten o'clock, we continue at exactly ten o'clock. In the event that one of these interpelations extends, we will continue immediately after the end of this interpelration. Thank you. Goodbye. Have a good night.
