ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u1	5. Members of Barbora Kořanová's proposal, Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš, Pavel Jelínek, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Chvojka, Jan Bartošek, Helena Langšádlová, Věra Kovářová and others on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended, and Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism, as amended /German press 554/ - second reading The present proposal shall be made by Mrs Barbora Kořanová and, where appropriate, by another of the appellants. The Member is here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, this has already been mentioned. The proposed legislation creates the conditions for the creation of a so-called banking identity. This represents a simple and free form of access to services not only eGovernment, but also online private sector services for approximately 5.5 million citizens who use internet banking. You know that digital laws, whether it's a citizen's right to digital service or a digital technical map, have support across the political spectrum. It has a great success and these laws go through really quickly and are very non-conflict. The proposed regulation therefore creates conditions for limited access of banks and branches of foreign banks to the basic registers. This will enable banks and branches to better prevent the legalisation of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing. I thank you for the time being and then I will read the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u3	Thank you for the quick introduction. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Budgets. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 554/2 to 4. Mr Dolejš is already behind the speaker's desk and he will inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and the reasons for any amendments. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although the introduction of the Member as one of the petitioners was lapidary, I also do not want to extend it, so only for those who did not pay any extra attention to this press, I will allow a very dense and brief methodological summary, in the sense that this press is a parliamentary proposal, but goes across the political spectrum, so if the Members in their clubs have worked off what they had, it should not run into political barriers. As far as material barriers are concerned, by not being a government, but a parliamentary proposal, of course, primarily, and I have already announced it at first reading, it was necessary to deal with the comments of the government, in particular, which gave a favourable opinion, but it was somewhat conditional, it has a diction on the assumption - and now there is half a page of certain reservations - which created room for things to be fine-tuned. And by moving the law to the Guarantee Committee, the Public Administration Committee, things took place especially on the ground of this committee, which - at the end of September - we had the first reading - adopted the resolution for second reading only in mid-November. So there was time, and as the classic, such as Suvorov, says "heavy on the field, light on the battlefield," so I think that, in this case, the debate participants may have proven their competence, because they have prepared a comprehensive amendment, I must point out, a comprehensive amendment that has passed through the resolution of the Public Administration Committee, with the committee adopting one more small resolution which is already attached to this comprehensive amendment, but because it has a character rather than breaking into the adopted text, but it adds something to it, so there is no collision. Therefore, if you have an ambition to load anything else, you should read this text of a comprehensive amendment. Perhaps just for orientation, who was really involved. The comprehensive amendment in the resolution of the Public Administration Committee has a certain number. If I'm reading this right without my glasses, it's number 3659. Since there was a technical lapsus, it was read again, which changed the number in the logic of the automaton to register amendments, so it's basically 3714 now. The comprehensive amendment, certainly to be discussed, essentially concerns two laws, namely the Banking Act, and then the law that deals with the dirty money, the anti-money laundering, so that's two laws, plus effectiveness since 2021. And the appendix, or the second B amendment, then concerns another area, which is insurance, or liability for the operation of motor vehicles. And it's in a nutshell. This is the resolution of the Public Administration Committee. And since I am here, I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budgets also dealt with this law because it was intended for it, but it was, in fact, somewhat pleased that the guarantee role was taken over by the Public Administration Committee, so it merely discussed it and recommended it to be approved without its own comments. This is at this stage when it comes to the resolution of the two committees and my comment as rapporteur, everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Vice-President Okamura is the first with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposed amendment to the Bank Act, which is a co-president of the SPD, and for us it is the IT specialist Mr. . Pavel Jelínek, our Member, has an indefensible benefit - allowing citizens to enter the public administration portal through identification in their electronic banking. Given the 5 million users of electronic banking, this is a welcome alternative to an electronic ID card, which requires five PINs for its full functionality, which is difficult for ordinary citizens. And even this proposal is fully in line with the SPD programme, where we promote digitalisation of the state, we are promoting a modern digital state. Here I would just like to remind you that two weeks ago, an amendment to the law, where we are also a co-president, was passed by an IT specialist, our MP, Mr Ing. Pavel Jelínek, who will greatly simplify the service of citizens from the state, and this is a fundamental digitization of services. Of course, allowing commercial entities to access the state administration register must have strict rules. The amendment, which is part of the review of the amendment to that law, contains very precise information to which a commercial bank may have access. It is only the information already available to the bank and can only verify its accuracy. I don't mean the commercial bank called Komerční banka, of course, but I mean it in the meaning of the private bank. The SPD will, of course, be a co-submitor of this law, which will facilitate citizens' services, closely monitor the application of the law so as to avoid leaking information about citizens and avoid abuse of this information and to ensure that the amendment of the law is fulfilled in its original content, and this is the maximum possible way for a citizen to communicate with the state administration following the law on the right to digital service, that is the law that has already been passed here in cooperation with more political parties. And as I was saying, the SPD was a co-president of this law. In the electronic banking system used to be used by a citizen, this bill will use the opportunity to identify itself in the Citizen's Portal and deal with the necessary communication with the state administration without the complex establishment of an electronic citizen. And since this bill also has support through the political spectrum, I hope that it will pass and that the SPD programme will also be implemented in this form, that is to say digitalisation of the state administration, which is our important programme point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u7	Thank you. The next is Mrs Kořanová's entry into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As has already been mentioned here, I would like to comment on two amendments. The first is therefore a comprehensive amendment. As the rapporteur mentioned, he is now newly recorded under SD 3714. As far as its content is concerned, it is essentially an extension of the business authorisation of banks and branches of foreign banks to provide identification services and protection of information by banking secrets, such as ensuring the participation of banks and branches of foreign banks in the NIA, i.e. providing electronic identification for use within eGovernment, namely through the equivalence of bank funds outside the NIA. Furthermore, what it contains is, for example, allowing banks and branches of foreign banks to provide electronic identification outside the NIA for entities to whom the existing legal order prohibits it. Furthermore, it is the establishment of an identification service provider and to enable banks and branches of foreign banks to offer, provide or mediate identification services and conclude contracts on them and on behalf of and on behalf of them. Establishment of a broad approach to banks and branches of foreign banks data about their clients in public administration information systems using their own information system. So much for a comprehensive amendment. As far as the second amendment is concerned, it is under the number 3591, which aims to enable banks and branches of foreign banks to do the same as insurance companies and the Czech insurer's office - the same adjustment of access to the basic registers as banks will. There is agreement on these amendments by both the Ministry of Finance, Home Affairs and the Czech Banking Association. I will join them in a detailed debate, and I beg you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u9	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Patrik Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would like to read the amendment to which I will then sign up under the number in the following debate. I'll describe it here, then I'll just log in with the number. It is a situation where the law, which I welcome, of course, as one of the variants of identification, has the physical presence of the client. However, in the meantime, we have moved here, and especially the clients of new banks, as I call them, free of charge, it is my heart's business, they often registered in the way that they actually did it remotely, from their original bank they sent the crown, so they registered and continue to bank with the new bank. Often the old one, the original one, has been canceled. And at that point, they actually exist as bank clients, but they didn't have the physical presence. That's when I'm trying to figure it out. Originally, I wanted to address this with an amendment, where the "without physical presence" would be cut directly. There I was given feedback, which I perceive, but I did come up late with the amendment, that it would not do any good in terms of money laundering in particular. That is why I came up with a different version, which would actually provide for the legal obligation of banks to allow themselves to take over the identity of the consumer by means of the bank ID. That means in practice, and the reason is that they're actually exactly the clients that we're aiming at with digitalization, that is, those who go into modern technology, go to a new bank, don't want to go anywhere physically, they don't want to hang out, and they're doing it all remotely, and now suddenly it's like they're in a vacuum because they have to make the first visit. The amendment addresses the fact that the original bank would hand over the ID to the bank where they were not physically, and they could actually participate in the whole process. I know it's last minute. I think there's some elemental logic to it. It really concerns those clients who think and work online and digitally, which means it contains these things. So I understand that one day going to the branch and spending five minutes there is no problem, but I think that if the whole philosophy is going to make these people less bothered, then there is this amendment, which I will later apply to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Martin Kupka is added to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few important figures to the whole proposed amendment of the law, with the fact that it is really part of the effort to ensure the electronicisation of public administration in the Czech Republic as quickly as possible. In fact, we are directly following up on what has been done in the Chamber of Deputies in the previous weeks, when the Senate will be dealing with the bill on citizens' right to digital services at the moment. At the same time, information is already coming from individual resorts that they are working intensively on the catalogue of services, which is an important part for the implementation of the entire law. There is therefore a list of digital services that will be digitized in the coming years. The individual resorts will have the following year. And to make everything that the Czech Republic offers to people in digital form so that people can really approach it and access it as easily as possible, it has a chance to ensure the current amendment to the Bank Act, as we refer to it as a SONIA or an ID bank. Several specific figures to make it clear how significant the change is and how significantly it can facilitate access to the state's electronic services. More than 1.5 million new IDs are issued at this time. Unfortunately, only 212,000 of them are activated as an electronic ID card, which can facilitate access or at all allow access to the Citizen's Portal and thus mediate the state's electronic services to its holder. At the same time, there are over 1 million data boxes in the Czech Republic, which is another way for a citizen, but also a legal person to log in and identify to the services of the state. And out of that, only 177,000 data boxes are owned by a natural person. So it is possible to say at this point that there are less than 400,000 citizens who are able to make real use of the state's electronic services. There are almost 9 million people in the Czech Republic who could use the digital services of the state to make life easier for themselves and at the same time to facilitate and simplify the real activity of the Czech government. At a time when it will be possible to use the existing services of e-banks, as we know, as more than 5.5 million clients currently use it, and all the ways people report and trust their banks, as they report to their e-banks, can be used in the future to use the electronic services of the state. This is a significant increase in possibilities for the Czech Republic and for citizens living in the Czech Republic. It is an almost order increase in access to the state's electronic services. Compared to the current 400,000, it will be more than 5 million people. I mean, like I said, more than an increase in order. And another important fact is that at this point, more than 5.5 million people are already using, and they are using, with a high degree of trust, e-bank services, they control their accounts, i.e. their money, trusting banks to manage their personal and very sensitive data, so I have no doubt that they will use this identification with little confidence to use it to use the services of the state and to draw much easier what the state will offer in the form of electronic services. I believe that these specific figures, factual facts show how useful this is and how much this could contribute to the Czech Republic's modernisation, that electronic services make life significantly easier for people, while also facilitating the Czech Republic's reduction of public administration costs. These are all the added value of the present law. I believe that in the coming days we will be able to get your support for all of us to approve this useful standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jelínek for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the digitalisation process of the state administration, no significant action has been taken since the introduction of Czech POINT to the citizens in their communication with the state. The law on the right to digital service, which we recently sent to the Senate, will allow a citizen to communicate with the state administration through the Portal. However, it is necessary to log in to this portal and properly identify the logged in. An electronic ID card with a chip and a reader connected to a computer can be used for this. Since there is virtually no time to exchange civil certificates for new ones with a chip, very long and popularization of the use of a new licence, not to mention that the process of using all the possibilities of a new ID associated with the issue of a total of five PINs is literally dissuasive, the following amendment to the Bank Act, the SPD of which is a co-president, is beneficial to citizens and will allow more than 5 million existing users of e-banking to sign up to the Citizen's Portal via its electronic banking. The amendment, which is part of the present press, clearly determines what data will be accessible to banking systems. This is 100% of the data already available to banks. Unnecessary data, such as the digital photo of the client, which was in the original amendment proposal, is deleted from the law by the amendment. So citizens don't have to worry about leaking data from a bank or any unnecessary identification to the Citizen's Portal. Since this is a service for citizens, this law has the full support of the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u15	Thank you. With or without priority, it's Mr. Bartoš's turn anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u16	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to speak on behalf of the Pirates Club, as many of our Members have participated in the preparatory work of the law, as well as on behalf of a committee under whose auspices or some kind of patronage these important legislative proposals relating to the digitalisation of the Czech Republic arise. I will not remember, it has been said here by my previous speakers, the right of a citizen to digital service or a digital institution, but I would like to say three key things, or the aspects that we have dealt with in this bill. The first is the availability and comfort of the use of services. Indeed, even our grandparents today have Internet banking, they are able to log in to it, and thanks to the fact that these clients' accounts are over 5 million, the possibility of accessing the state's services in digital form will indeed be liberalized. So it's comfort -- so that citizens can use those services, they have to apply comfortably. Really, the card reader, where the chip records the stuff, it's not exactly ideal. You'd have to carry a lot of things with you. But you simply log in to e-banking via phone. The second aspect, which I believe is very important and shows how important it is to share foreign experience, and this is the reciprocity of the service provided by the bank and what the state will in return provide to banks. Moreover, in the areas that those banks have to carry out anyway, which is a need to control money laundering. Nordic countries are far beyond the Czech Republic with digitalization. Finland, where we were looking at this process, also introduced a banking identity, but at the beginning they set the process wrong - it was paid for. As digitalization became a daily bread and you can apply x-times a day to the service of the state through bank identity, so suddenly a bundle of money has to be paid to the banks for providing it. I am glad that we found this reciprocity in the proposal and, in fact, the second part, when we negotiated on a comprehensive amendment, actually went through some kind of table of information that basic registers can use banks to carry out activities that are required of them in the final, for example, in the case of money laundering or the fight against terrorism. So here the banking association, but also ministries, but also services dealing with the security of the Czech Republic, conducted a dialogue, and I think that the ratio is ideal, therefore, and this has also been said, citizens do not really have to worry that there will be any extraction of information by commercial entities from registries. And that's the third thing that's important. Indeed, we have made sure that in this process, in view of the fact that commercial entities are allowed to access registers, the emphasis is placed on privacy. I would like to thank the members of the working group once again, which are not only Members, but representatives from the banking sector, they are people from the EU's ICT and, in fact, a group of other experts, including experts from ministries who have been involved in the preparation of this law. And I hope that this law, along with the amendments that will be read at third reading today, will pass through the Chamber of Deputies by Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u17	Thank you. I ask that someone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Is there any interest in the final words by the appellants or rapporteurs? It's not like that. The bill has not been returned, I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First in a detailed debate, Mrs Kořanová, then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u18	Thank you for the floor, for the last time today. I would like to sign up for a comprehensive amendment, you will find it in the system under 3714, and it concerns the access of banks and branches of foreign banks to the basic registers, regulates the terminology used, banking secrets, etc., etc. Another amendment that I have applied to regarding insurance companies is recorded under number 3591 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u19	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u20	Have a good afternoon again. As has already been said, I would apply to the amendment that you will find in the system under number 3789. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u21	Thank you. Mr. Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u22	Good afternoon again. With your help, I would like to do one thing that will allow our efforts to fall on fertile soil. Because in almost Advent time, our schedule of parliamentary work will be trampled on, so we need to speed up the procedure a little bit so that we can manage the third reading. Because, before the third reading, as is customary in the region, and our rule requires us to do so, we still need to discuss the amendments before the third reading in the committee, so I would like to take advantage of the benefits of Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows us to propose and therefore approve the shortening of the third reading period to seven days. Which I would like us to do, because the committee is already in shiny armor ready to discuss this Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-001-005.u23	Thank you. If no one else is reporting to the debate, I will end the debate in detail. Again, there is no interest in final words. And the only proposal that has been made in the debate is a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading by seven days, to seven days. I'm gonna call our colleagues from the lobby, and I'm gonna hear a request for everyone to check out, which I just did. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your ID cards. So now I'd read an apology, and they just didn't bring me one. But we will give our colleagues time to take part in the vote. [[15.30 hours]] For those who have just arrived in the hall, I will repeat: we will vote to shorten the deadline for the third reading by seven days, i.e. seven days, pursuant to § 95 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 11 vote is 125, for 122, against no one. The proposal to shorten the deadline was accepted. I finish second reading of this proposal and thank you all. I'm opening a new point
