ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u1	146. Members of Alena Gajdůšková, Jan Chvojka, Ondřej Veselý, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Válková Válkova, Lukáš Kolářík, Roman Onderka, Vít Kaňkovský, Petr Pávek, Lenka Dražilová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended /German press 463/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 463/1. I ask that Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková present the proposal as the appellants. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u2	Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Member, honourable Members, first I want to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down. I'm sorry, Madam. I will ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace so that the Member can express herself so that we can hear it. I'm asking you once more to calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u4	Thank you. One more time. Honored House, first of all, let me thank you all for putting this proposal in place, in fact, before some other parliamentary proposals or other bills. Thank you for all the petitioners of this bill, who are almost all the Members' Clubs of the Chamber of Deputies. Indeed, people with disabilities and their employers are waiting to discuss this proposal. The proposal is directed towards those who, despite their adversity, try to be valid through their disability, work at least as their disability allows them. Unfortunately, this is not in spite of the efforts of these people, who really can only be admired and who need to be greatly appreciated, it is not always possible for them to work at 100% comparable to those without these disabilities. A large proportion of people employed in the protected labour market are granted a second or third degree of invalidity. Economic stability of employers of these people is therefore highly dependent on the state contribution provided by the Czech Labour Office pursuant to Section 78 of the Employment Act. So here is the problem that this parliamentary initiative, our parliamentary proposal, is trying to solve. In the last three years, the minimum wage has increased by CZK 4,200 on average. However, the contribution to the employment of people with disabilities did not grow this way. Specifically, the minimum wage has increased by CZK 6,200 in the case of persons with disabilities with a disability pension in the first and second degrees since 2015. In the third stage it was even CZK 8,200. We tried to make it that way, and we think it's the right thing to do. But we need to know that this represents an increase of a minimum wage of 103 percent, respectively. In the third stage, 205 per cent of the contribution to the employment of disabled people has increased only by 30 per cent since 2015. This disproportion is already so great that there is a risk that companies employing people with disabilities would have to reduce the number of their employees. [[16.00 hours]] To that end, I would like to remind you that for people with disabilities, work activity is not only a source of livelihood. As we know from these people, Mr Krása, the head of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, is work, work activity, albeit part-time, at the same time work rehabilitation, at the same time social therapy. It is therefore in the interest of the company to employ people with disabilities, to create conditions for them to be employed despite their disability. The current government has also committed itself to this at tripartite negotiations at the beginning of this year at the same time as a minimum wage increase agreement. Here I must remind you that from 1. 1. 2019 there was a government regulation to increase the minimum wage from 12 200 to 13 350 crowns. With respect to this agreement in tripartite, which I recall, I propose, or we propose an increase in the contribution to the employment of people with disabilities in the protected labour market by CZK 800, i.e. from the current 12,000 to 12 800 crowns. The projected impact on the state budget, if employers applied for an increase throughout the year and for all people employed in this way, would be approximately 557 million. Kč. It is necessary to recall, or say, that a large part of these people are not working on full-time, but on short-time, so if they were to translate full-time, that would mean about 336 miles. Kč. If we approve the proposal this year, it will take effect from 1. 1. 2020 and employers will be able to apply an increase for the 4th quarter of this year, this year it will be one quarter of this amount. Again, I want to add that this state contribution for the employment of people with disabilities goes essentially to their wages. This means that part of this contribution will be returned to the State for contributions and insurance, and the rest will be saved by the State for unemployment aid and social benefits that the State would have to pay if the disabled were to remain unemployed. That's economic reasoning. However, I believe that the House, honourable colleagues, will also consider those categories of support for people, those who need it most, people with disabilities. Since we are already talking about a further increase in the minimum wage, we should also consider whether we should create a valorisation mechanism to ensure the stability of the employment of people with disabilities. It would probably not be good for us to start the debate again next year and look for ways to support the employment of people with disabilities again. As I said at the beginning, companies that employ people with disabilities and even these people, and believe that I have spoken to many of them, are waiting for this support because they are really afraid that their employers will not be able to bear it and would have to limit the number of their employees. They are waiting for this bill to be approved as soon as possible. They've been waiting for it for a whole year. I will therefore propose in the debate a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for the attention you have given to this proposal, and please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u5	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I thank the Member for the introduction of this proposal and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u6	Hello, Mr President, dear Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The House's press 463 refers to a change in the amount of the contribution to support the employment of disabled people in the protected labour market provided under § 78a para. 2 of the Employment Act from 12 000 to 12 800 crowns. The increase is proposed as a result of an increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2019, following the amendment of Government Decree No. 567/2006 Coll., on the minimum wage, on the lowest levels of guaranteed wages, on the definition of a difficult working environment and on the amount of a bonus for working in a difficult working environment, as amended. Government regulation changed the minimum wage from CZK 12,200 to CZK 13,350 per month. A change in the minimum wage, i.e. an increase in the personal costs of employing disabled people, is not supported by at least a partial increase in the market value of their work, may have a negative impact on the employment of disabled people in the protected labour market. Productivity of workers with disabilities according to the opinions of their employers in most cases does not correspond to the minimum wage and therefore the economic stability of these employers is entirely dependent on the contribution provided by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. The Government of the Czech Republic has given a neutral opinion on this amendment, pointing out that despite the implementation of the proposed bill, the amount of aid paid to employers in the protected labour market employing more than 50 percent of people with disabilities is constantly increasing, with almost 6.8 billion in 2018. CZK and from 2016 the increase is almost 2 billion. Crowns. Furthermore, the government points out that although the aid spent on employers employing disabled persons is constantly increasing, the number of disabled persons with disabilities in the long term is not adequately reduced. The annual comparison between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 saw a significant increase in the share of long-term unemployment among disabled people from 24,9 percent to 32,9%. For these reasons, it would also be appropriate to address this area at the Ministry of the MPSV and to prepare legislative amendments which would lay down optimal and transparent conditions for the employment of disabled and disadvantaged persons. As rapporteur for this press, I propose to release this amendment at first reading and, as a guarantee committee, I would recommend that the Committee on Social Policy be approved. I recommend a 30-day shortening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u7	Thank you, Madame and rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Minister Jana Maláčová is registered with priority rights. I'm gonna read an apology before the mic hits. Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes today between 16.10 and 18.00. for work reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for an increase in the contribution to support the employment of disabled people by 800 crowns, I am in favour of this opinion and I personally support it very much. In our view, the legislation should respond to this year's increase in minimum wages and to the planned new increase from 1 January next year. In the context of its growth, there may be increased costs for employers employing disabled people. This occurred e.g. already in 2018, when employers' participation in costs incurred increased by CZK 1,400 compared to 2016. During the same period, the number of persons with disabilities supported decreased by 1 386. Not increasing the contribution in 2019 would mean increasing employers' participation by another CZK 1,150. It is therefore appropriate to assume that an increase in the minimum wage without an adequate increase in State aid would have an adverse negative impact on some employers and could lead to a reduction in the employment of disabled people. I'm sure we can agree that this would be a very undesirable phenomenon. Increasing the minimum wage can be seen as a positive step towards improving the living conditions of disabled people. For these reasons, I support the parliamentary proposal to increase the contribution to support the employment of disabled people in the protected labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you, and I will ask my esteemed colleagues in the room to keep our voice down, because there are moments when even I can't hear up here. Thank you. We have five applications in the general debate so far. The first is Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. I would just briefly like to comment on this point, and I would like to say the SPD's position. First of all, we are very happy that that point has appeared, or we voted it on today's show, because I think it's very important. Of course, we support an increase in employers' contribution to salaries for people with disabilities in the protected market. It is very important, in our view, to prevent both the reduction of employment and the reduction of motivation to work with these people. As we all know, despite today's really high cost of living, we believe that a clear system of valorisation mechanism is needed on the basis of economic growth, both in terms of minimum wage growth and in terms of the contribution to promoting employment for disabled people. So that's for us, that's for me. I think I said that briefly, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u11	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Markéta Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the TOP 09 on this bill is also positive in the sense that we consider the irregularity that needs to be corrected by this, is actually very wrong and we regret that it has not come here before. I know what happened here. We're not opening it anymore. Anyway, I'm glad the novel's here. However, I have a few possible questions about the Minister from the point of view of future developments in this area, in order to prevent what happened, that the contribution did not correspond to the minimum wage. In the government's programming statement, the minimum wage should not be determined, as it is so far, that this is a decision by a government regulation, a political decision, but that the government will prepare some mechanism for increasing it, which will be more dependent on clear economic indicators. I know that, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, the effort was here, but it was not successful in the end. And I would therefore like to know whether you will return to this attempt to predict the increase in minimum wage or not, whether you have already given up this effort in some way, or whether you are just looking for the right mechanism, the setup. That's the first question. Next question. So if it continues to be increased in the current way - so far it seems - we do not yet have information that anything should change in the future, because we are seeing negotiations on the growth of minimum wages for next year - I want to ask if we can really be assured by the Ministry that this increase to the 12 800 will therefore be sufficient, and if we are not going to stand here again before this problem, because that would, of course, mean that before the final validity of this law is finally here, we can start again and we can open the amendment again and solve it again just in the wake of the new increase in minimum wages. That is why I felt you say, Madam Secretary through the President, that this will also be reflected positively by next year. But I'm more concerned with the outlook and the years to come, so that we don't really cause problems for these employers in the years to come. So many two additional questions on this issue. Otherwise, support for this novel for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u13	Thank you, ma'am. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Dražilová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u14	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me also briefly comment on today's amendment to the Employment Act as co-president of this press. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Gajdůškovášková for preparing this amendment, because we all feel that it is very necessary, and on the other hand, I find it very sad that, although this amendment was prepared in the spring and in the system from April of this year, we are only now coming to discuss it in September. I think that's a big mistake. I'll follow up on colleagues and colleagues who have already spoken here. We all see that raising a minimum wage also has a positive effect on disabled people. On the other hand, it also brings about problems in a protected labour market. I would just like to say - and unfortunately, the Minister has not mentioned this here - that we have the problem with the fact that when there is a minimum wage increase from 1. 1. 2019, they pointed out at the Social Committee meeting at the end of 2018, when the question was discussed, there were also representatives of protected workshops and other employers who employed disabled people, and in this context I have no choice but to ask the Minister why the government did not prepare this amendment. Because we already have a minimum wage increase in force for three quarters of a year, and we are only now discussing the valorisation mechanism of the contribution to the employment of people on the protected labour market. I think it's a mistake. Today, of course, we have a chance to move forward, but I have to follow up on what Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said earlier, what Mrs Pekarová and others said here. At this point, as far as we know - we are opposition Members, but we are talking at coalition level about a further increase in minimum wage from 1. 1. 2020. And I don't want to criticize it at this point, raising a minimum wage certainly has its reasons and risks, but it needs to be seen in the direction of employing disabled people. I really appeal to the government, and I want to ask the Minister, and now there is nothing political about it, in the context of this amendment, to introduce us to the mechanism of valorisation. Given that there has been a repeated increase in minimum wage in recent years, in my view it is not effective for us to make a nominal contribution here every year for employers who employ disabled people on the protected labour market, but to achieve some automatic valorisation. That means, that's my question and at the same time an appeal to the Minister. I think it should be an ambition for the coalition to agree as soon as possible on how the minimum wage will be set from 1. 1. 2020 and, in the form of an amendment, this is what we bring to this amendment. Otherwise, we'll be standing here in January, February and so on next year, and we'll have the exact same problem. [[16.20 hours]] It is important to remember that employers who operate protected workshops have a number of problems with employment. Today the economy is doing well, that is, even for these protected workshops it is a little bit of a problem to get a portfolio of products that those clients or employees in protected workshops in the labour market can do. But everything suggests that the economic crisis will come. We don't know when it's coming, we don't know how deep it's gonna be, but for those protected workshops, it's a huge danger in itself. And if we've left them in the lurch for three quarters of a year now, and there's a threat that we're going to deepen the crisis again next year, I'm afraid it might mean a trail for some of them. And what will that mean as a result? Healthily handicapped, who are very difficult to employ, lose their jobs. And I don't think anybody should let political shirts go without distinction. I therefore appeal to the Minister to comment on this and to work together in order to resolve the year 2020 in the framework of this amendment. Otherwise, KDU-ČSL clearly supports this amendment and we will, or we are ready to cooperate on a possible amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded to the three questions that fell on me here. Why didn't the government prepare the novel when the minimum wage went up last year? We wanted this to be done as quickly as possible, which is why, in cooperation with Mrs Gajdůškovášková, we prepared the amendment which was incorporated into the Employment Act, and I remind you that you were the amendment in the spring of this year - no, the law on the residence of foreigners, I apologise - that you rejected it. So for time reasons, we incorporated it into running legislation and the proposal was rejected. We did, but unfortunately, there was no approval. As far as Mrs Pekarová Adamová's question is concerned, how does this actually look about the minimum wage setting machine, I can confirm that the negotiations on the amendment to the Labour Code between the social partners and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs were very intense, took place about half a year, from the autumn of last year to the spring of last year, and there was no agreement at the level of the social partners. I would say that the poodle core was in particular the number at which the minimum wage should be anchored relative to the average wage, plus, say, the reference framework, that was the second issue of which the average wage, or quarter, should be concerned. That is, because there was no consensus that was unsolvable at the moment, we basically had four different opinions, so at this point, we're not going to approach the vending machine. As regards Mr Kaňkovský's last question, what is the minimum wage rate for next year, on 1 January next year, so at this time, as every year, there is a social dialogue on the minimum wage level. This dialogue also takes place with regard to increases in salaries in the public sphere. I would like to remind you that on Monday, September 16th, tripartite will meet precisely for this purpose. That means it's a running process, and I think in the following readings, the possibility of responding to the agreement that we expect is going to fall in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u17	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With a factual remark, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u18	I would only like to make a brief comment on the Secretary's speech. The fact that you tabled an amendment to a different amendment is true. It is also true that the amendment has not been approved. I'm still looking into it, but I think our club supported it. But the government has the opportunity to present the novel in an accelerated reading, and that did not happen. We are here in September, and I have not noticed that during that time, unless the amendment to the Alien Residence Act was approved with this amendment, the government would, in the meantime, prepare an amendment in an accelerated reading. This was done by the parliamentary initiative under which we signed across the clubs, and it did not reach the House's agenda until September. This means, unfortunately, I cannot resist the fact that the government did not really have priority in this, despite employers' appeals on the protected labour market. And then a letter. The Minister explained to us, and we all know how the negotiations on valorisation of the minimum wage are taking place, but she did not comment on whether she was ready to quickly intervene in the valorisation mechanism concerning the contribution to protected jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u19	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. I will read three apologies: Mr Lubomír Volný, who apologizes today from 17:00 to the end of the meeting day and the whole working day tomorrow, 12. 9., 2019 for work reasons. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, today from 16.15 pm to the end of the day, for work reasons. And Minister Adam Vojtěch today from 16.15 am to the end of the day on account of urgent work issues. In the debate, Mrs Dražilová is next in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as a co-president, to comment very briefly on this proposal and to ask you for his support. I would like to stress that, indeed, there are employers in the protected labour market who are no longer motivated to employ disabled people if they are not really heartmakers, because often the work of disabled people is coming close to working therapy. I do not want to repeat myself, but, as has already been said here, by increasing the minimum wage and the contribution to the employment of people remains at the same level, some people are really at risk of being fired and keeping only enough to fill the compulsory share, that is, one disabled person to 25 other employees. At present, these differences are covered by funds intended for investment and the development of firms, but of course this situation is unsustainable. I therefore ask you to support this proposal, release it to second reading, and support the reduction of the 30-day deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u21	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Hana Aulická, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I will probably be very brief, because my previous speakers have already de facto said all the reasons put forward to the press, and why this proposal and this amendment should actually be adopted. I would like to say that, of course, the KSČM is not only signed on to this amendment, but, of course, supports it, not only because the minimum wage has increased, but it is mainly because we support the employment of disabled people and disadvantaged people. However, I would like to say that the KSČM has also participated in a number of professional meetings in the past and we have also come up with demands against the abuse of the system, i.e. flat-rate support, and we have requested differentiation of state contributions according to the degree of employee limitation, which is the degree of disability pension or different evaluation according to occupational medicine. I believe that this change, or this amendment to... the 800 crowns will really help in the system of employing people with disabilities. Anyway, as the rapporteur has also said here at the end of her report, I believe that it should be on the agenda of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' day to look for some parametric changes that would create some transparent concept in this area, which would not have to be constantly addressed as to whether this is linked to the level of minimum wage, and that the environment should also be done optimally so that the employment of disabled people is dignified and, above all, their number increases. Because even in the explanatory statement of the Government's position it is really said and there are also figures that there is not such a sharp increase in the employment of people with disabilities, and new parameters should certainly be set that would increase this number dramatically. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u23	Thank you, Madame. In the general debate, it is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's turn to prepare Mrs Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u24	Thank you again for the floor. I have applied in this way to the debate to propose what I have announced in the presentation of this bill. I therefore propose this shortening the time to discuss the bill in committees to 30 days. A further comment on the debate on valorisation, on possible valorisation, or the necessary valorisation of the contribution to the employment of people with disabilities. I am prepared to submit this proposal as part of the second reading amendment. But since it is not a simple material and it will really need to be done, so that it helps and does not cause problems in practice, so that it also corresponds to the needs that this very sensitive area has, I believe that we will again agree to cross-section of the political parties. I also believe that, and I hope that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be instrumental in processing the proposal, so that it is legally in order. I might still be able to make a line to Mrs Aulická. This issue really needs to be addressed. Positive, of course. In creating the best possible conditions for anyone who wants to work across that he simply has a health disability. It's admirable. It's appreciated. It's an example for all other people. On the other hand, you also certainly have the information that Mrs Aulická spoke about, that they are entities that abuse and are able to abuse both those people with disabilities and the system, as it is set up at the moment. We're gonna have to deal with that, too. I have spoken to people from the Association for Employment of People with Disabilities, talked to organisations that associate people with disabilities, and it is really necessary to pay attention to this aspect of the issue that we are talking about at the moment. I think that... at least I sensed the support here, I think I can say in advance that I'm not going to use the final word. I've said everything I need to say in this bill. And thank you once again for the support I've given everyone, and for the well-founded debate that's been going on here so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u25	Well, thank you, Madame. Another and the last one entered in the general debate is Mrs Richterová, who I am giving the floor to. And I will ask the esteemed House to keep it down. Thank you very much. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary... [[Noise in the hall.]] It's quite lively here... Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to say in addition to the fact that, as the pirát, we support the proposal put forward, that we are witnessing something that is happening repeatedly here in this House, namely that the matter on which there is a broad consensus, the thing that no one has a problem with is being put forward with a complete delay. Reminds me of a parent's contribution. It's the same situation. This government is completely unnecessarily presenting us with things that we all want to support across the spectrum, late. It seems absolutely crucial to remind me that we will then spend here not only here at the House meeting, but also at committee meetings in various efforts to remind these things of dozens and dozens of human hours that could have been spent much more useful. The question after valorisation asked by my previous speakers, also aimed at the need for a simple mechanism to valorize, for example, the care allowance and other things, for me, has one more specific question, namely whether the Minister could answer me the question of whether the negotiations to be concluded by September 21st - as she said, next week - I do not know if the Minister is listening to me...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u27	I'm gonna ask you to calm down, because it's really not pleasant to talk to a humming room. Each and every one of you can experience it, and none of you are comfortable with it. So I'd like you to really keep your voice down and listen to what the speaker says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u28	Madam Secretary said there'd be a deal by the end of next week. I would ask once again to confirm whether the agreement will therefore be a valorisation mechanism, how this will be dealt with every year. No. So we're gonna have to do the same thing again next year, maybe in two years. This is absolutely unbelievable. That's why one last question. How many people at the Department of this agenda? How many people are in charge of the employment agenda of people with disabilities at the Ministry of Labour? I think that should also show if it's actually a sufficient priority. I'm summing up. This is precisely an example of what we, as the people who are on this agenda, seem to be in great agreement, do not have to name anything in this detail if there is a regular valorisation mechanism. I totally don't understand why it isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u29	Thank you, ma'am. With a point of fact, Mr Ivan Adamec is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u30	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just a little something. I wanted to ask Mrs Richterová through you to explain to me the shape that I may have heard before what a man's hour is. I'd like to know what it is. I really want to explain what a man-hour is, just so I'm clear. Maybe some of you know that. But I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-006-146.u31	Thank you. So I don't have anyone registered in the general debate with a factual remark. I'll check the O.R. to see if I see anyone. I don't see anyone. So I am ending this general debate. I'll ask for any final words. Not interested. Not interested. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. I'm gonna sing because we're gonna vote. I'll wait a minute. We will vote on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. I've started the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 50, 173 Members signed in, for 133. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. [[16.40 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? I don't see anyone. So this proposal will not be directed to other committees. There's been a motion to shorten the deadline for 30 days. I will put this proposal to a vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of shortening the deadline. Who's against it? Voting order number 51, 174 Members signed in, for 138. The motion was accepted. I state that the deadline has been reduced to 30 days. This is how we dealt with this press. I thank both the petitioner and the rapporteur. We're going to discuss a point.
