ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the adjourned 36th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. Mr Ivan Bartoš has a replacement card number 8 and Mr Miroslav Kalousek has a replacement card number 11. I say that by the beginning of the meeting they asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting by the following Members: Radek Vondráček for reasons of foreign travel, Andrea Brzobohatá from 15.30 for health reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák from 9 o'clock for health reasons. Elfmark František for family reasons, Jan Farský for work reasons, Pavel Juříček due to foreign travel, Karel Krejza due to foreign travel, Martin Kupka from 9.00 to 9.30 for work reasons, Majerová Zahradníková Zuzana until 10.30 for work reasons, Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 9.00 to 9.30 for personal reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg from 9.00 to 9.45 for health reasons, Petr Třešňák from 9 to 10 hours for work reasons, Jan Volný for health reasons, Lubomír Volný for health reasons, Rostislav Vyzula for health reasons. From the members of the government: from 9.30 to 11.45 Tomáš Petříček, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for work reasons and Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman, apologizes for foreign travel. Furthermore, apologies were received by Minister Marie Benešová until 15.30 for work reasons and by Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík throughout the meeting day also for work reasons. I remind you that, on Friday, 1 November, by resolution number 764, we have determined that the vote on the drafts and drafts of the law as a whole in the case of point 1 of this meeting of the approved programme is the House Press 509 - the Government's bill on the amendment of tax laws, will take place today, on Wednesday, 6 November, at 10 o'clock. Before we proceed to the adjourned debate, Miroslav Kalousek, President of TOP 09, came forward with priority right before the opening of the debate. [[There's noise in the room.]] Before I give you my word, Mr President, I will ask the House for peace. And we're good to go. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am already taking the liberty of asking for a 20-minute break before the final vote after the vote on the amendments. We will begin the vote at 10 o'clock, as the House has decided by its resolution. Not only in my opinion, but even according to the Constitutional Court's finding in a similar situation, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure Act. I have to say, I'm sorry you chose this very alternative because you had a choice. Both Secretary Schillerová and President Faltýnek knew what the minimum was, which, if we are assured that it will pass from the amendments, we will be happy to help the law become effective to 1. 1. 2020. The minimum was the amendments already approved by the Committee on Budgets at the third reading, plus the assurance that the fees at the cadastral office would not increase. I thought it was totally... for an offer to an absolutely fair agreement that would have absolutely minimal impact on the 2020 budget, as well as a fair political agreement between the coalition and the opposition, because none of these amendments concerned the program flagship of either or that coalition or opposition party. What it was about in a matter of fact. It has been, and is still in favour of Mrs Kovářová's amendments to life insurance, to support the amendment of Members Dolejš and Onderka, which increases the tax burden on slot machines where dependence is demonstrated, but does not increase the tax burden on lotteries where dependence is not proven, and the amendment which has been tabled to an alternative, whether Mrs Kovářová or Mr Bartošek or Mr Ferjenčík, and concerns the fee of the cadastral authorities. These three things. The assurance that these three amendments would be approved was enough for all of us to hurry so that the law would become effective at 1. 1. 2020. You have rejected this offer, which, in my opinion, was... very fair and helpful. [[Silence for noise in the hall]] And again, you've decided to break the law. I think we all swore that apart from promising loyalty to the Czech Republic, we would observe its Constitution and laws. A conscious violation of every Member's law at the moment when he knows that he has another alternative is simply information about the perception of the rule of law of this Chamber of Deputies. However, it is your right, of course. Nevertheless, I dare to appeal to you to try to give these three amendments a special consideration. First of all, because they make sense, and also because before the final vote, I will speak with the opinion of the TOP 09 MEP. The length of this opinion will logically be in proportion to your willingness to accept these three amendments and will, of course, limit our consideration of asking the Constitutional Court to assess how serious a violation of the Rules of Procedure Act was when you decided to end the debate and vote at 10 o'clock. Thank you for your attention, and for thinking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u3	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. This was before the debate was opened. I see an application with Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's priority right, and I ask if it is before the debate is opened or... Before the debate is opened. Okay. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I have read from public sources another incredible statement by Minister Schillerová, who said that she is facing terror in the Chamber of Deputies, and said that we are discussing the third reading for almost 27 hours. I didn't see the number of hours, so I looked into the tapestry, so for the Minister, who apparently make simple numbers a problem, even though he is the Finance Minister, at the third reading, we discussed the House press number 509 on Friday 18 October 45 minutes. [[A reminder from the benches.]] I'm talking third reading. On October 25, this extraordinary meeting began. We've been doing this all day, five hours. The extraordinary meeting continued last week on Wednesday, October 30th, and we spent the whole day, another five hours. And on Friday, the Chamber of Deputies spent approximately three and a half hours doing so. If I add it up, it's 14 and 15 hours, and today you've decided that the debate can continue for an hour at most. So 15 and 15 hours, not 27. It's on the edge. [[9.10 hours]] If you look at the draft procedure, you'll find that there is a change in nine laws hidden in the Houses of the Press. I also said in the general debate that the proposed procedure is logically broken down according to laws that change - real estate tax, income tax, reserve tax, excise duties, administrative charges, stabilization of public budgets, gambling tax, VAT, Senate legal measures on property acquisition tax and amending the bill on gambling. So ten, I'm sorry for the inaccuracies, we're changing ten laws. So if we divide that time by 15 and 15 hours by the number of laws, if everyone were to discuss each other separately - it's legitimate to put it together, or separately, it doesn't matter - we figure that every law in third reading would be discussed for an hour and a half. Which is a time no one would notice, which no one could artificially describe as obstruction and which is miles away from such a powerful expression as terror. So let me get this straight. Including today's third reading debate, we will devote 15 and 15 hours to this, while changing ten laws. This way we'll vote on them one by one, about changing ten laws, on average one and a half hours per law. And President Faltýnek says that's enough, we've had enough. One and a half hours I, Jaroslav Faltýnek, consider it sufficient time for the opposition to comment on this. It's clear on those numbers that it's not true and that you're actually afraid of the debate and that you're, uh, repeatedly committed to calling it police jargon, re-reciprocating lawbreakers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u5	This was the chairman of the ODS club still outside the debate. With the same speech of the opinion of the Mayors and Independents, my colleague Petr Gazdík is. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u6	Mr President, my dear colleagues, through Mr President, I would like to start with a paraphrase: "Jaroslav, you are not doing well with the match. It'll come back to you." [[Members of the ANO movement argue that the name is not Jaroslav, but Jaromír. Laughter and applause.]] You see, I am one of the co-authors of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which we, together with today's Commissioner Jourová, have pushed through. At that time, the aim of the amendment was to avoid corruption so that amendments could not be filed anonymously and between second and third reading not to be 48 hours, but a much larger period of time, so that the time to prepare properly for the amendments. We certainly did not intend to prevent Parliament's activities. Parliament is supposed to be discussing. And now imagine that ad absurdum for every law you use is the procedure you used in this case. That it is simply said in each hearing: there will be a firm vote on this law then and then, that is to say in ten minutes. This will leave Parliament meaningless. The opposition, coalitions and individual Members lose the right to discuss anything. Then I wonder what we'd be here for. One of the criteria that the Constitutional Court will certainly consider in this case is proportionality. That is what my predecessor, Mr Stanjura, spoke of. Is it appropriate to discuss the law for about an hour and a half about one? I'm sure it's appropriate for me. And I believe most of you think so, too. And at the end of our opinion of the mayors and independents, I would like to tell you one thing. You haven't learned your lesson. Please learn. See what happened to all those laws that were adopted by any previous House of Similar Methods, violations of the Rules of Procedure, or when they were at the edge of the Rules of Procedure. Look what happened to church restitution, building savings, what happened to the second pension pillar, which the coalition took by force. I believe that this law, this package of laws, will also be abolished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-036-04-000-000.u7	Let's keep going. We will proceed to discuss the interrupted point. Before I do so, Karel Schwarzenberg extends his apology for health reasons until 10.30 and Mr Kytýr apologizes from 15.30 to 21.00 for working reasons. Our broken point is
