ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and some other laws /German press 109/7/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as a House press 109/8. I welcome Senator Vilímec among us, who has already taken his place. I would like to ask Mrs Kateřina Valachová, on behalf of the plaintiff for the Senate resolution, to comment on the rejection of this bill. Once again, I will ask for peace in the hall so that the Member has the opportunity to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u2	Dear Members, honourable Government, Mr President, allow me to briefly rephrase the amendment of the law which has already been approved by the House of Deputies here in the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate has unfortunately rejected this amendment, and the objective of which is one and, in our view, an honest thing, that in the Czech Republic, during economic growth, employees and workers should be sure that if they are involved in insurance, they are already involved in compensation for loss of earnings from the first day of the disease, and they are sure that they are not being punished for the disease. The proposal therefore envisages that from 1 July 2019 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u3	I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask for some peace in the room!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u4	The proposal therefore envisages that from 1 July 2019 employees and employees in the Czech Republic have a renewed remuneration of 60 per cent of the basis of assessment, which is, in lay terms, half the salary, half the salary, from the first day of the disease. The proposal doesn't forget the employer either. In our view, compensation towards employers is sufficient, amounting to about 3.5 billion. Crowns. I also want to emphasise that these expenditures, investments in our view towards the health of employees, are covered by the state budget. Therefore, there has also been a compromise here in the House in the sense that the law should come into force on 1 July 2019. [[15.00 hours]] The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is also moving forward with regard to the preparation of electronic incapacity, because, of course, we have also heard the voices of employers calling for debyrocratisation to be made, to reduce administration and to prevent it from being abused in isolated cases, because, in our view, this is not a massive matter, it has been prevented from possible dishonesty. So once again, I hope that once again, the House will support the workers and employees from 1 July 2019 to have a renewed illness, and I believe that all the arguments that should have fallen in the House have fallen, and I believe that you remember them very carefully. The main thing is, if I'm involved as an employee in insurance, I'm supposed to be protected from the first day of the disease. There's no point in pretending that it's fair to punish employees for illness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I will now ask that Senator Vladislav Vilímec take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me state the reasons which led the Senate to reject the amendment to Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, according to Senate press 11. The Senate resolution is contained in the Houses of the Press 109/8, which you have at your disposal. I would add that the bill was referred to three Senate committees before it was discussed at the Senate plenary. As part of the committee's deliberations, the Constitutional Committee recommended the rejection of the bill, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Transport of its return with amendments, and only the Committee on Health and Social Policy recommended the approval of the bill as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate plenary then adopted a motion for rejection. 37 voted to reject the 62 Senators present. During the discussion, both factual and formal opposition to Part 13 appeared. - the amendment of the Higher Education Act, which is not related to the intention of the amendment of the Act, i.e. the abolition of the period of the cardinal period, when the compensation for wages is not granted for the first three days of incapacity for work. The proposal of Part 13 concerns something completely different - the allocation of working hours for academic workers. Moreover, the regulation is perceived both factually and legislatively as very problematic. The proposed provision in that part of the 13th basically means that the employer would only record the part of the working time that he has scheduled himself, but the exclusion of the employer's obligation to register worked shifts is contrary to other employer's obligations. I know from my parliamentary practice that a similar proposal has already been discussed in the previous parliamentary term. Even then, even now, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not agreed to this proposal, although, of course, the House's press is being put forward as a parliamentary proposal. The Senate assessed the modification of Part 13 as an obvious sticker, which does not have the appropriate institutional support of the academic community either. The proposal was also not agreed by the representative of the petitioner, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. As far as the abolition of the time is concerned, the debate in the Senate, but, of course, also in the Chamber of Deputies, pointed out that this is a serious matter which has not only the effects of social but obviously large financial effects on employers. There have always been very passionate discussions about the time of the cardinal. koneckonců all, I know that in the Chamber of Deputies of the Left, several times in the past, she has tried to achieve the abolition of the Karen age, whether by the way of an amendment to the law, the amendment to the Labour Code, or the Constitutional Court. She hasn't succeeded yet. For a change such as the abolition of the quarantine period - and I reject that it would be the punishment of some kind of employee - it is quite appropriate that such a standard be presented as the result of an elementary tripartite agreement, an agreement between employers' representatives, employees and the state. We know that there was no such thing. Karen's time, I don't want to discuss it in any way, because I'm sure you've enjoyed enough of this in the House, as well as in the Senate, was still in place in 2008 and repeatedly in 2009. Its aim and, after all, the result was to increase the responsibility of employees mainly to short-term incapacity for work and to reduce the space for possible fictitious illness, which is proven by many statistics. In addition, and this was also mentioned by the petitioner or the petitioner's representative, in addition, the possible abolition of the time should prevent the achievement of a fully operational state of the electronic disability system. That's what the senators from the government coalition pointed to. It is also necessary to bear in mind the connection with the introduction of the time of the card, where the obligation to pay sickness insurance of 1,1 % of the gross wage on the part of employees was abolished as compensation. For employees, and this is not much to stress today, sickness insurance is paid only by the employer. In principle, employees, compared to the past, create resources, as calculated, for about five or six unpaid days of temporary incapacity for work. The Senate, I will not talk about other statistics right now, but the Senate also took note of the high financial costs that would amount to an annual amount of at least CZK 4.5 billion in the selected and inadequate way of compensation, this is a reduction of two tenths of the percentage point of sickness insurance, so with this method of compensation chosen, the costs would amount to an annual amount of CZK 4.5 billion. These are the figures that were officially presented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the tripartite meeting and were not questioned. It has not been questioned in the Senate, nor by the petitioners. At the time when the compensation was paid in the first three days, i.e. before 2009, it amounted to 30 per cent of the basis of assessment, not what is now being proposed, i.e. 60 per cent of the basis of assessment. The senators therefore also proposed higher compensation for employers in the form of a reduction of the employer's insurance contributions to sickness insurance for employees by 35 hundred percent, not by the two tenths, but by 35 hundred percent, which would reduce these financial effects roughly to CZK 2 billion. In the end, however, the Senate chose to reject the law. It is important to be aware, and this is also not very important, that the State has so far higher income from sickness insurance than the annual expenditure of the State on the payment of sickness insurance benefits. I don't see one reason why the state should make that kind of money on sickness insurance. The draft law was not intended to take effect until 1 July 2019. Thus, the Senate's proposal to reject the proposed amendment also created some time space for a new assessment of all aspects related to the possible cancellation of the time of the card, including the financial implications and the expected increase in the reported incapacity for work. Thus, with this knowledge and prerequisite, the Senate rejected the bill. Members of Parliament, I have no choice but to believe that the reasons for this rejection will be understood and that you will strive to find a better balance of changes both for the benefit of employees and for the benefit of employers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Senator. As the rapporteur of the guarantee committee sits in his seat, I ask him if he wants to comment. [[Mr Novak at the rapporteur's table]] Not at the moment. I am asking Mr Bauer, who was rapporteur on the Economic Committee. He's not interested in the show. I am therefore opening up a debate on this point. I had the right here - Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that the SPD supports the reimbursement of the first three days of sick leave, i.e. the abolition of the period of quarantine, as we want people to be cured as soon as possible in the event of illness. At the same time, however, we are pushing for these first three days of sickness to be reimbursed by the State and not by the employer, as advocated by the government. The burden of businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is already so high that it is no longer possible to increase it. That is why we will refrain from voting on the House version again, because you have rejected our amendment, which has just changed the obligation to pay from employer to state. Karen's period, i.e. non-payment of the first days of sickness, introduced in the austerity package by the ODS government, thereby reducing the costs to companies at the expense of employees and, at the same time, raising the level of contribution to the state budget, because a large proportion of employees stopped being sick in the short term. And it is quite clear that most of those with the smallest salaries go to sick leave, because the difference between sick leave and salary is in their case in the order of a hundred crowns, while for example for us it would be a difference in the order of thousands. The Constitutional Court annulled the Karenary period in the middle of 2008. However, the Cabinet re-enforced the non-payment, and the constitutional judges then paradoxically left it in effect. Why did the Constitutional Court cancel the Karenary period? The cancellation of sickness benefits for the first three days of incapacity for work is contrary to the provisions of Article 30 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Charter, namely the right to adequate material security for incapacity for work. This is therefore a somewhat convenient and arbitrary procedure by the state, which affects all categories of employees due to an uncertain number of sick-benefit abusers across the board. The result is a situation where the vast majority of employees remain in work for the first three days without any resources, while their obligation to pay the insurance has remained unaffected. It is not acceptable for the State to merely require that employees fulfil their obligations, in the present case, to fulfil their insurance premiums, while disregarding the protection of their interests when the said event in the form of incapacity for work affects them. There has been a violation of the rights of employees, which achieves a constitutional dimension. The sickness insurance scheme should not be used to cover the state budget deficit. In my opinion, the time of the card is contrary to the right of a citizen to provide adequate material security in his incapacity to work under Article 30 (1) of the Treaty. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, Article 26 (3) of the Charter provides that everyone has the right to raise funds for their means of living by work. Citizens who cannot exercise this right without their guilt shall be materially provided by the State to an appropriate extent. The terms are laid down by the law. Article 30 of the Charter regulates the right of citizens to adequate material security in old age and in incapacity for work and the right of everyone to such assistance in material distress as is necessary to ensure fundamental living conditions. Why am I quoting this? Two fundamental principles arise from the above provisions. Yes, at a time of illness, the employee has the right to help, but he is obliged to provide this assistance to the State, not to the employer, and this also implies the position of our SPD movement. And as we have proposed under the SPD, and our proposal has been voted on here and rejected, the only fair solution, and also, as we can see, which is responsible to the Constitution, is for sick leave to be paid out of sickness insurance. On the contrary, the argument that the government has reduced the contributions to employers does not stand much, because the government is, on the contrary, constantly burdening the employer at many levels. On the other hand, if someone wishes that a sick person would not receive a penny in the first three days, that is also absolutely unacceptable, because unfortunately there are millions of people in this country for whom every hundred crown is important and who live from paycheck to paycheck. And it's unthinkable that in the 21st century there are people in our country who can't afford to be sick because they wouldn't have enough to eat or rent. There's a pretty illusion that the state or the system is saving something. No one here has done a relevant survey on how much serious, often chronic diseases cost us by neglecting the treatment of minor diseases in the long term. Everyone knows that the disease that has passed is in a much worse shape in the future, whether in cardiovascular diseases, or in the weakening of immunity, followed by cancer. Today, this affects a third of all citizens of this country, which is rocket growth, incomparable with the times e.g. before 1990. The cost of treating these diseases is not a hundredfold, but certainly more than a thousandfold. And if someone gets sick because it pays more to be at home than at work, then it's memento for employers as well as for how much they motivate their employees to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Gajdůšková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Mr President, the honourable House, dear government, just a technical remark. What we have heard from Vice-President Okamura is a god-forsaken alibiism in the sense that although they wanted to cancel the Karenary period and wanted to pay from the first day of the disease, and that it was even originally their proposal, but they cannot support it now because it should be paid by the State. The state will actually pay for it. The proposal - and the rapporteur, the rapporteur said clearly - contains a reduction in social and health insurance contributions by 2,5 per cent for employers, which means that employers are left with 3.5 billion, which means that those 3.5 billion. he's going to have to in some way or he's not going to get a state, so he's actually paying for this. It's really just alibiism on the part of the SPD, and they just don't want to give people the payment in those first three days of illness. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. With another factual remark, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u12	Mrs GajdůGajdůšková acts in the style of social democracy, that something is free. If the Socialist proposal, which so supports the former right-wing movement, or the former movement that claimed to be right-wing, contained compensation for employers, we are really talking about whether it is good or bad and how to possibly affect those who abuse it. We tabled an amendment that was a compromise because we perceived political reality, we knew that there was a majority who wanted to cancel the Karenary period, and we proposed an amendment that would about compensate for the increased employer's costs. You turned him down hand in hand. So it's not true that it won't affect employers' costs. The same will say, "Why do wages not increase?" Well, because he won't be up to it. The same people will wonder why the lower income of corporate tax is. Well, since there's going to be higher costs, there's going to be a lower profit, and there's going to be a lower tax. Yes, for civil servants, the government's majority can solve this by increasing salaries in the public sphere, but what about the vast majority of people who are in the private sphere? The scope for increasing wages is simply shrinking with this bad bill proposal and wages cannot grow as they could. That's true, and that's something to say. And when the Social Democrats wanted it, they were supposed to compromise to compensate employers. Or does the petitioner, or the representative of the petitioners, believe and be able to tell me on the microphone that all the costs incurred by employers will be compensated? Yes or no? So at least admit that you're increasing employers' costs, and that's why you're reducing the pay gap for those employees, and you're calling it employee protection. And it's exactly the opposite. The proposal is against the interests of the employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u13	I thank Mrs Šafránková for the very precise respect of the time and, therefore, now with a proper application for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Senators, by rejecting the bill on annulment. In addition, they pointed out once again some serious contradiction and deficit of this draft, which I repeatedly pointed out on behalf of myself and on behalf of the SPD during the discussion of this draft in the Chamber of Deputies. The point is that the government's proposal imposes an obligation to pay the first three days of illness to an employer who is already paying employees to pay part of the salary in the period from the fourth to the fourteenth day of their incapacity for work, respectively. the days within this range for which the staff member is scheduled to work. This existing rule already goes against the logic of the insurance system, since employers are together with employees also the payers of insurance premiums and for a certain period also the payers of insurance benefits. [[15.20 hours]] We already consider this form of participation in the present form questionable and for many small and medium-sized employers it is very burdensome to liquidate. Moreover, this provision is often circumvented, or its impact from employers is minimized by the fact that, in particular, the number of days to be paid by employees in exchange operations is artificially reduced. This will happen if a law is adopted in the form approved by the House in October of last year, with regard to and the financial burden of employers perhaps even more often. This means that this proposal can, in its consequences, harm some employees even more. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD considers it natural and proper for employees to be reimbursed so-called. illness from its beginning, from the first day of incapacity for work for moral, ethical and practical financial reasons. This is not primarily about how it often sounds, so that employees can extend weekends or vacations with three-day artificial fictitious ailments. This can also happen in the current system settings. And if such fraud is detected, the Labour Code already allows immediate termination of employment. On the contrary, this change in the reimbursement of sickness from the first day of incapacity for work can also bring positive effects for employers, e.g. in the fact that an employee in a minor illness will not, for financial reasons, delay his incapacity for two to three weeks, but will be fully satisfied with the weekly sick leave paid from his first day. However, the main reason why sickness payments have to be paid since the first day of incapacity for work is different. It is necessary to maintain a low- to medium-income employee income standard that is not significantly lower than their income in the months when they are healthy. Because now, when the first three days of illness are not paid at all and even on the 4th to 14th day only on scheduled working days, in addition, when applied so-called. reduction limits, in some cases the employee is paid for 14-day illness, e.g. only 5 days, plus only three-fifths of standard earnings. This means that it reaches a level of approximately 25 to 30 per cent of normal income, which can often be existentially threatening. We in the SPD believe that the most appropriate and systemic solution to this issue is the reimbursement of sickness from the first day to the third day of incapacity for work, not from the employer, but from the public income, from the funds of the social security chosen, as is now the case from the 15th day of incapacity for work. The health of citizens and the maintenance of their acceptable standard of living even at a time of illness are clearly of public interest. In this sense, last autumn, I tabled a comprehensive amendment to the draft law under discussion, which consisted of a few minor amendments to the Labour Code, the Insurance Act and the Social Security Insurance Act and the contribution to state employment policy. I consider it most appropriate that we return to this proposal as soon as possible, because it is a comprehensive and systemic solution which is fair to all involved within the framework of legal and budgetary constraints. Thank you and please consider how you will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Next, Mrs Pekarová Adamová is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had long debates around this bill, so let me just say very briefly the opinion of the TOP 09 on this passed law. We identify ourselves, and it will probably not surprise us at all, precisely on the basis of the arguments that we have already made in the House during the discussion, with the arguments put forward by the Senate, respectively, on which most senators agreed, because we believe that the cancellation of the Karenary's time is really inadequate at the moment, is not correct, especially because we do not return to any system that was here before 2009, but we are introducing a new system, a new approach that is very disadvantageous and unfair to employers. Most of the Senate, the senator here has already justified that, so he agrees with the right-wing view, let's say, on this matter. And I cannot very much agree with the petitioners' proposal, which is constantly presented here, that the time of the card is a kind of punishment for the sick. I really have to say no to that, because if we want to look at it that way, we can simply turn it around, that the abolition of the time is the punishment of employers for giving people jobs. Because, as the proposal stands here, the actual payment of the remuneration from the first day to 60 per cent of the basis of the assessment is something that was not there even at the time when the employees made their own contributions to sickness insurance. I remind you, for example, of those who do not pay so much attention to the issue, that at that time it was 1.1 percent that went to the employee, and for that reason the employee in the first three days of the disease had 25 percent reimbursement of his salary on the basis of the assessment basis, the daily assessment basis. Now the system, as it should be put in place, introduces a zero obligation to pay sickness insurance contributions for employees. The entire obligation remains with employers, but the employee is to be able to, or will be paid 60 per cent of the daily basis of assessment. So if you just take the simple numerical comparison of the system here, as it used to be before the introduction of the quarantine period, you can see quite clearly how the burden has shifted significantly to the employer, and those, of course, as it has already been said here, will want to compensate for it in some way, because the compensation, as it is proposed, will certainly not cover what it costs. I'm sure it will reflect on the amount of wages, on other benefits that employers provide today, and they'll just have to evaluate it at their expense. And who's it gonna be? I guess we don't have to tell ourselves that it's going to be for the employees themselves, who are often mentioned here and for whom we are supposed to be doing this measure. So the TOP 09 can't agree with this. Of course, there are a number of other arguments. As an inability to control real illness in the first three days, not only because we do not have a functional system of eIncompetents, but also because if they pass through the proposal, which is already here in the House, it will not be possible to actually check with it whether the person is ill or not. So, we think, quite rightly, we fear an increase in the abuse of the system. Moreover, the system, after the cancellation of the Karenary period, will not motivate people to prevent it, which is also an important aspect of caring for their own health, preventing diseases, because it is also really one of those, let's say, benefits of introducing the Karenary period. You could go on with a whole bunch of things, but I think we've already said the arguments here in the debate more than once, but it's not surprising that since the law doesn't change, so our attitude doesn't change either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Mr Bauer is next in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I have read carefully and with great interest everything that I have presented here during the first, second and third readings during the discussion of the motion for cancellation of the time of the card, and I must say that there is nothing I would like to change about my words. Therefore, allow me to repeat only a few points here, although I know that the arguments have already been made here, perhaps in the blind belief that I will convince one of you and in that final vote you will change your mind. [[15.30 hours]] Firstly, for political reasons, the rules that work in our country are being rewritten as a hard-disputed compromise. This proposal is made in spite of the clear disapproval of employers and the position of the Chamber of Commerce, but also of the Confederation of Industry and Trade is proof of this. First of all, under the leadership of the ANO movement, the government takes its stand for this unfinished, undisputed - absolute responsibility. Yes, it is the YES movement, which, before the 2017 parliamentary elections, faced and said that it was a pro-business movement, but I feel that the behaviour in practice is turning around more and more. The Karen period has proven to have fulfilled its purpose. This also results from the analysis you have at your disposal. Carding time contributes to greater responsibilities of employees mainly in short-term illness. The time of the Karen clearly reduces the space for so-called. Fictitious illness. By disturbing the Karen period, in my opinion, you will return the Czech Republic by many years, when it was proven to be twice as ill. The cancellation of the Karen period will damage the Czech business environment, damage the companies and unfortunately, as some here assume, will not help the employees at all. Last but not least, the abolition of the quarantine period will inevitably bring up to tens of thousands of new employees to the demands of employers on sober estimates. Finally, the last two arguments that have also been raised here in the past. I have said here several times that there is rarely a situation in the business environment that self-employed, businessmen, small companies, medium-sized companies, large companies, multinational companies have the same opinion on one economic indicator or on one draft law, because the environment is very diversified, but here I have to say that you are coming with the cancellation of the time when all these, that means small businessmen, self-employed persons, small, medium and large companies and multinational companies clearly disagree with the cancellation of the time of the Karenční period in the Czech Republic. And the last argument, too, has already been made here in the past. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has proven in the media many times that there will be no situation that the cancellation of the Karenary period will come into force until a full-fledged e-Clerk is introduced, and as we see the legislative process that is going very far, it is evident that this promise of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will also be clearly broken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u19	I thank you and Mr Ondřej Veselý wants to respond with a factual point. You have two minutes and a lovely peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. It is indeed a beautiful peace, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the comments that we are something extraordinary, that we want to pay for the first three days of illness, and even God forbid 60 percent. We always follow what's good west of our borders, how it's better and better there. Well, just so you know, I'm sure you know, but I'll remind you of the microphone. Germany - the first six weeks of illness, 100 percent of wages are paid by the employer. Austria - six to twelve weeks of illness, the employer pays 100 percent. The six to twelve depends on how long a person's been employed. Poland - the first 33 calendar days of illness, 80 percent is paid by the employer. So please don't say that we're special and we're hurting employers. On the contrary, we have been very modest and we are trying to find some level between what we can and what employers can do. Of course, we also reduce social security, so we compensate employers that way. I'm not saying it's 100%, as President Stanjura said. I'm not saying that. I don't dare say that. I'm not pulling numbers like that out of my sleeve. But we're not special. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Another factual point - President Stanjura, then Mr Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u22	So first, and he certainly knows, Mr Veselý, Poland is north of us, not west. It doesn't matter at all. But in order for this debate to have meaning, we need to tell the person paying sick leave, for example, what is the amount of employer contributions - both social and health benefits paid by the employer. Then it makes sense, because of course it has something to do with each other. The 0.2% is just a small compensation. That's what I think, and I'm glad you said you wouldn't say it's total because it really isn't. But if you were to quote all the countries west of us, and you didn't do that on purpose in my opinion, you'd find that in many countries there's a time of quarantine, and in many, it's longer than three days before you cancel today. So if we want to draw statistics, let's say all the countries, let's compare it, but let's say the bills, the cost of the job. Then there's a point. Not that I'm gonna take just one parameter. In every other state, I will find a parameter that is better for either an employee or an employer if I pull it out of all the parameters I have to assess. We insist that this is a proposal that will damage honest employees. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Klaus and then Mr Veselý will react with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u24	Hello in the new year. Yes, this law will damage honest employees and, of course, damage entrepreneurs. But I'd turn your attention to what it's done for. We try to provide people with social security because otherwise we all agree that it is better to be rich and healthy than poor and sick. So it's normal to try not to get sick, go to work. As a kid, over there they won't know what I'm talking about, we had a mandatory reading of malý Bobeš. That's where Daddy got hurt in the woods, poor guy, family got nothing and really starved. It was very sad, but we don't live at that time anymore. Today, everyone in such an injury or serious illness will receive 60 percent of their wages from the third day, and the family, of course, does not know how, but it has basic needs. We're talking about the first three days, which are really those coughs, colds, and stuff like that, the more we burden our employers. So I'm kind of rejecting your socially touching argument because that's not how it was in the '20s, let's say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u26	Thanks again for the word. I will answer by your means, Mr President, to Mr Stanjur. Yes, Poland is north of our borders, I admit. Then I'll add some more Western countries. Belgium - first to seventh day 100 per cent. Then it goes down. Denmark - 100 %, Luxembourg - 100 %, limited to some time. All I'm gonna do here is point out this crucial thing. We actually did the opposite. In particular, those countries who have a period of quarantine pay for the first days of the disease, when it is the most common disease, the short crossing of the disease, and that is why those countries are introducing it. They're reducing it to longer sick days. We have it the other way around. So, on the contrary, in those early days, we should pay even more, in my opinion, so that people do not pass on the disease. So I've mentioned three other countries that are actually already west or northwest of our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, too. A real point - Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u28	I would like to add that the number of people who are ill within three days has not changed in any way since 2008. What causes the impact that we are arguing about is whether and how there is sufficient compensation towards employers, these are the amounts for which the employee and employee get nothing in a situation where they are ill for an average week, 14 days. That means, that's the situation we all know. And those who have average income in this situation, very common, that is, I'm sick a week, 10 days, 14 days, so that's where the biggest revenue outage is actually happening. It is precisely because not only is income reduced, but in the first three days of the disease is now not compensated at all, and even if this bill is approved by the House, the participation will still be there. Like I said, we're talking about compensating 60 percent of the measuring base from day one. That's half the salary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! That's also an accessory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u29	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue the debate with a proper application by Mrs Richterová. Madam Aulická will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, we have witnessed such gunfights. I would like to make a brief statement for the Pirate Club that we do not think such gunfights are entirely necessary. This isn't really a battlefield. Here's a search for a solution that somehow balances out the skewed balance that has actually been in the past in terms of sickness. The point is that we actually preferred as a country the support of those people who get into a long-term illness, but we didn't compromise, some support mechanism for those who have low salaries and it's really a big problem for them to be sick that one week. So what we're talking about here again today is actually an example of some kind of return balance from zero wage compensation to those 60 percent. And it's good to say that still a lot of companies, a lot of businesses try to motivate their employees in a lot of ways not to get sick to take care of themselves, in different ways, whether the various incentives in pre-exercising, going to like fitness centers, but also various financial incentives that whoever hasn't been sick for a month gets added. That's all there was to it in the discussions. Let's focus on this, that the situation at work has an enormous effect on the disease as well. The kind of relationships there are. The way people work there in general, or they don't. In addition to the fact that people with low salaries in particular will feel very strongly about the 60 percent of their wages during the first week of the disease, let us remember one more thing. After all, it is also the responsibility of doctors who judge whether the illness is justified or not. Let us also look at this by considering that it is also the responsibility of those who judge. And the final conclusion. It's often said here that the past was some kind of compromise. But when you look at it in more detail, it was more like a really strong overpressed employers. We now know that, of course, the situation in many sectors is not easy, especially for the industry today's labour shortage is difficult, but it is not the solution for people to take vacations because of illness. The solution is to set both salaries and wages in such a way that people know that they are worth going to work, as well as the overall functioning of the workplace, so that they have no reason to be sick, even if they are not so completely ill. But that really needs to be taken into account. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And one final point. It is still important in this debate to stress that it will never be easy to completely balance all those views. And that the self-employed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u31	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace so that discussions on another subject are in the foyer, so that you have the opportunity to say your position. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u32	That the CFI often gets into difficult situations when they are sick, that's true. But it is not an option for those who are employed to get into a similar situation. That wouldn't help anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. We continue with the debate by speaking to Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I really don't want to stall anymore. I think that the repeated arguments that we have heard today have really been listened to in the previous readings. And I see the return of the Senate and the position on this proposal as very unfortunate, and I am very sorry that the senát has actually rejected the abolition of the time of quarantine, because I think that this measure is really necessary and I think -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u35	Madam, I will interrupt you too. I'm gonna ask the House really for peace. This is the last performance, so move any discussion on another topic in time, and we can deal with this issue in peace. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. So I just really want to tell you again that we're talking about employers' compensation, benefits. But we're talking to the employers from that position, and we're actually promoting the abolition of Karen's time. And mostly, of course, it's such a measure -- you know, we like it, we don't like it. But that it would have a major impact on some failure or major consequences for the employers themselves, so they too do not see it that way. Moreover, they are aware, as has been said here, that the first three days of illness are essential to the employees, but also to employers. And I think we've said that from a medical point of view, and it's actually constantly apologizing. And I always say that it is better for the employer to have a short-term sick employee who is properly cured and who is not afraid that even on a lower salary, the failure to pay for the first three days for his budget, on which of course the family is established, will have a disastrous impact, and he does not have to worry, but above all, the employer knows that the employee will try to come to the job as long as possible. Or make them go through the disease and make their employees unemployed, virtually. sick. Abuse of this system. I think the abusers have been and always will be. And I don't think that percentage is going to go any higher just because it's going to be canceled. Even the involvement of the state, as is declared here, and more or less, she has already mentioned to her colleague Kateřina Valachová that the involvement of the state is indeed significant. And those compensations that actually were for those employers during and during the introduction of the Karen period, so I think they're already big enough, and we're moving in several billions. Although I am certainly - President Stanjura looks at me through the President, he will certainly not agree. In any case, we also perceive benefits within the scope of the benefits, and we see it every day that our employers are looking for benefits in every way possible to lure employees. And I don't think canceling the Karen age is something that really doesn't put them down. And that is why I would appeal to the House to really overrule the Senate's decision and definitely support the abolition of the Karen period, because it is in favour of employees, but also employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. And I have Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's factual comment. Once again, before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u38	So just the final word. We support the Senate's view and attitude. If I were to sum up the position of the petitioners and supporters, as my previous speakers, the previous speaker, it's like this. I'm gonna take you $100, and now I'm so nice to pay you back 50. And appreciate how nice I am. They forgot in those economic considerations and in those considerations that, when the period of registration was introduced, the health insurance that individual employees paid for had been abolished. No one's talking about that. No one here has said that, Madam Speaker, through the Vice-President. That means you're using one-sided arguments. I'm just gonna repeat the main reason we're against it. We were prepared to support here if we agreed to compensate employers. But to you, employers, businessmen, businessmen are like suspects. They're busy, so why should we compensate them for all this? At the same time, there was the possibility of introducing a period of quarantine and, at the same time, compensating the costs for employers. The Social Democrats and Communists rejected this hand in hand with the YES movement. Then don't be surprised that the Senate suggested rejecting it. And don't be surprised that we will vote in accordance with the Senate's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. That was the last application for the debate I had. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's a final word for the Senate representative, a representative of the petitioner, a rapporteur. It's not like that. We shall proceed according to the Rules of Procedure. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on our Rules of Procedure. In order to adopt the following resolution, it is necessary - I will engage. We're gonna need 101 votes. Please set the kvora. Thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House Press 109/7.' We will decide in the vote number 16, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 16 of 184 Members present for 129, against 31. I state that the bill has been passed. I thank the appellants, thank the representatives of the Senate and the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. The President Miroslav Kalousek reports with priority right outside the points after the speech by Mrs Valachová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u40	I would like to thank the House for such great support and renewal of sick leave for employees from 1 July 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Chairman Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly hope that no one will suspect me of wanting to vote in favour. Still, I have an "A" at the junkyard, so I dare say for the sound record that I wanted to vote against, there seems to be a technical error, but I am not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Your statement will be in the tapestry, which is different from the electronic record of the vote. Chairman Kováčik. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. It is not often when you feel that something has succeeded. Allow me, too, to thank my colleague Kalousek, even if he was wrong, for the long-term programme objective of the KSČM was thus met. I hope it will last, and I thank all those who have participated in the submission, in the justification, in the drafting of the proposal and in the vote you have now voted on after it has come back from the Senate, in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. You have the floor, Mrs. Brzobohatá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u46	I'd just like to say that I voted in favour, and I'm high on the vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u47	Okay. That's also for the log. Mrs. Brzobohatá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u48	I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u49	Yes. Thank you. A colleague of Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u50	In fact, we are paired up with the colleague who spoke before me, and the result faithfully shows the majority will of the House. Let me just give you a brief line to President Kováčik. I wasn't wrong. The future will show that all those who have pushed for this have made a mistake. But it's majority will, and I respect it. I'm just stressing again that I've always been against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. And if no one has anything to do with the result of the vote, no contribution to the tapestry, we will continue with the second item today and that is
