ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government - honourable Member of the Government, I am opening another day of session adjourned by the 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and please log in again with my identification cards and, if necessary, inform me of who requests to issue a replacement card. The replacement cards and their numbers have already been reported before the interruption, so if anyone has any change, please report it to me. The apologies were also loaded at the 36th meeting and the replacement cards were also loaded at the 36th meeting, so if anyone has any change now, you can report it to me. We would launch today's meeting with points 41 - House press 516, 42 - House press 479, 43 - House press 530, 49 - House press 545, and paragraph 50 - House press 295. We would then proceed with other points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I have a request for a priority performance, but I'll read the apologies first. So Mr Jan Bartošek apologizes today from 3:30 p.m. to 12:00 p.m. tomorrow for business reasons. Apologies to Mrs Věra Kovářová today, 6. 11., from 15.30 to 16.30 due to business meetings. Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes, between 15.30 and 16 hours for work reasons. Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes today from 15.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes for working reasons from 13.45 to the end of today's lunch break. Furthermore, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes on Wednesday, November 6, from 15.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. She also apologizes to Mrs Helena Válková between 15.30 and 17 hours for reasons of work. Furthermore, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes from 15.30 to the end of the day for health reasons. Now with priority rights chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of our club, to propose a change of programme. I propose that we start this afternoon's meeting with item 207, which is called the Government Bill amending Act 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, House Print 490, third reading. It's a so-called parental contribution. At the same time, I propose, in accordance with Section 95a, that the Chamber of Deputies set aside a period from 15.30 to the end of the vote on the bill for voting at third reading for this House. Thank you for supporting this proposal. See, we're on our own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u3	Mr Kubíček will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm requesting a 15-minute recess for the ANO club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u5	Excuse me, yes, for how long? [[Mr. Kubíček: 15 minutes.]] 15 minutes. So I'm declaring a 15-minute recess for the ANO club meeting. So I'll meet you at 15.49.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two apologies. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologises from 15.30 to the end of the day for health reasons and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes 15 minutes to 16.05. So with priority rights, Mr Kubíček is now speaking for the club of the ANO movement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a new proposal on behalf of the club YES, and that is after voting third reading after 14 o'clock to include point 206 - sorry, point 206, print 509, tax package. And as second item in 207, print 490, MPSV, on state social support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u8	You said after 2:00? [[Mr Kubíček off the microphone: When a third reading vote is approved after 14:00.]] Okay, so that's counterproposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u9	Okay, I'll fill it in. I propose the inclusion of third readings today after 14 o'clock until the end of the session.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u10	Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. All right, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u11	Thank you for the floor. Our concern is to discuss the parental contribution, not what Mr Kubíček proposed. So, on behalf of two ODS and TOP 09 MPs, I veto his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u12	So the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u13	Hello. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the pirates' MPs, YES, ČSSD and STAN I propose that: Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure has agreed that today we will discuss and vote on the draft laws and procedural proposals after 19 and 21 hours, until paragraphs 49 and 50 are discussed, the Government's proposal and the parliamentary proposal for the reform of executions, the House's press 545 and 295.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u14	I'm registering your proposal. I'll look around the O.R. to see if there are any other suggestions. I do not see any further proposals, so we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. So we're going to vote. Let me introduce you to how we're going to vote. We have two proposals from the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. We will be the first to vote on what he referred to as the second, but in order to do so in a procedural manner, we will be the first to vote on how, according to Section 95a, we will set another hour to vote for the third reading, and the proposal was that from 15.30 today - that we will set another hour for the third reading. This means that the third reading should be voted this afternoon by the end of the day. Did I get that right? One more time, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u15	I'll repeat my proposal, which is already on the screen. I have suggested that the Chamber of Deputies allocate paragraph 207 for the third reading - [[Objection from the O.R.:]] But it's possible, of course, it's possible - time from 3:30 p.m. to discuss this point. [[15.50 hours]] If we approve, and at the same time - and we are ready to support President Michálek's proposal. If the debate happens to extend even after 19 o'clock, then we can vote and discuss the parental contribution, and then they will come in line for the nineteenth or twenty-first points that are already on the agenda. I think it's perfectly clear, logical. If the Social Democrats want to discuss the parent, as they so implore, it is very simple for them, it is a helpful offer, you can support it and we can start discussing now, and we are ready to negotiate today and actively support all the points that the Chamber of Deputies has already placed firmly on today. No matter whether it takes after 19 or after 21 o'clock. I think that time is enough to make all the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u16	Now, I understand you well, but it's two votes. First, we have to separate the clock, and then if we separate it, then we can vote on that point. That's why I first... But there is rather another information, because the proposal, which was Mr Kubíček, cannot be vetoed under the Rules of Procedure, I have information. So we should vote on this as a counterproposal. First Chairman of ČSSD Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u17	Thank you. I don't want to complicate this, but I believe that the procedure proposed by colleague Stanjura is not possible. I believe that the House has the right to decide whether or not to discuss third reading outside the law, the rules of procedure set out time, but I do not think it is possible to limit it to one point. This means that we should vote on whether we will discuss laws in third readings, and then the House should decide which laws will be discussed. That's how I read it. I don't think it's possible to say that we can set aside time, but we can only discuss one law. I don't think that can be one vote. First, we have to decide to set aside a time other than the law, and then we have to choose what laws we are going to discuss as part of the programme. This is my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u18	That is exactly what I propose, which is why I am saying here that first we have to vote on setting aside the other time and then we will agree on a vote, if it is set aside, what point will be there. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u19	First of all, I will comment on what you said last time, Mr Vice-President. You said that Mr Kubíček's proposal should not have been vetoed. I quote Section 95a to you. The House will decide to set aside other hours for the third reading of bills. The House may not vote on a proposal to set aside other hours for the third reading of the bill if at least two Members' clubs object to such a proposal. Mr Kubíček proposed to set aside hours for third reading from 14:00 until the end of the meeting day, and I raised the veto on behalf of two MPs in accordance with Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure. So the veto was quite appropriate. For the Home Secretary. President Michálek here proposed an extension of the negotiations after 19 o'clock and on behalf of your club, and he is also there until the end of which point. However, to argue, I am prepared to modify my proposal. I propose that we set aside the time for third reading today from the moment of the vote, I do not know whether it will be 15.56 or 15.57, until 19 o'clock for third reading. I believe that if the government's MEPs are not deliberately delaying this, three hours is certainly enough for a parental contribution. [[Voice: Third reading.]] Third reading. With the suggestion that this be - and this is the second vote - to include the point 207. So I suggest we set aside that time from 3:00 or 4:00, be it clear, from 4:00 to 7:00 for reading the laws in the third... to discuss laws in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u20	That is how I understood Mr - I understand, I have already noted it, we will vote on it, but I understood Vice-President Kubíček's proposal so that he first followed up with the fact that we are voting on whether there is a possibility of that time for third reading this afternoon, and then he suggested putting in a different proposal than you suggested. Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u21	Okay, thank you for the word. So I'll repeat the procedure. The first vote on the Tax Code and the second vote on the parental contribution in the dedicated time for third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u22	Please, so I've got it marked, first the tax package, then the state social support. prosit, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u23	Now I'm gonna talk to the Social Democrats. I've been talking to the YES movement all morning, so that Mrs Valachová doesn't feel awkward. The vote will clearly show whether priority number one is a parental contribution or a tax package for you. That's what we've been arguing about for the fourth week. When I have two priorities, they can't be both priorities, it's very simple. This is the YES approach, according to which the House of Deputies also looks, we have four meetings, we have the same point at three meetings. So it's all the same priority. And that's it. That's all I wanted to say. I think I have the right to comment. Let's see what you decide. We'll see what the truth is, the truth will prove best by voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u24	Now, with priority rights...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u25	Sorry, I'm sorry to have to say point number - I don't know, tax package, House press 509, I've already memorized this, there is still a debate going on, so if you are voting on Mr Kubíček's proposal, Mr Kalousek will come to the microphone and will probably not come to the parental contribution again. So once again, you would deny your own claim as to how you care about those young families, how you're concerned about the parental contribution, and the clear truth you've been proving so far for four weeks is that for you, the number one is to take money from those young families so that you can give them part of it. [[Long-term pounding into the benches from the ČSSD and the ANO movement. Let's hear it from the right.]] I must thank all Members at the moment because there is no greater appreciation for the opposition Member when the opposition applauds him and the government Members are banging on the bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u26	So now with priority right Chairman Jan Hamáček ČSSD. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u27	Well, thank you. I'm not going to drag this out, but I want to thank Zbyňka Stanjur for having the fate of social democracy at heart and for taking such care of us. We've been here for over 140 years, and we're gonna last a little while longer, and we don't need a crutch from the ODS side. But if you want to hear how it is, I'll tell you on the microphone if you listen to me through the President about the priorities. Of course, raising parenting is a priority for social democracy. We came up with it, we pushed it, and we voted for it. There's just a little nuance - we need somewhere to take the money. And if the opposition here is suggesting that we be careful where we take the money for our projects, then we'll take it by adjusting some taxes. And if it bothers you that we're adjusting taxes on tobacco, alcohol, and others, that's your right. We're saying fair and square here that in order to pay these young families the money, we have to do something about income. And I think we have chosen a very reasonable procedure, because, at the same time, we have income on parental allowance, so we also affect and disable vices such as alcohol, gambling and smoking. I think that's perfectly okay. You wanted to hear it, so I'm saying it openly. For us, it is a priority for young families to have parental contributions. And it's also our priority to get the money. It's a responsible procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u28	So now, with priority right, the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and prepare himself with priority right the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u29	Thank you, Jan Hamáček, for the open words. So in order to hold the families, we have to take their money. The Home Secretary knows exactly when he looks, recapsulates the appearances of members of our MP, so we didn't criticize what he was talking about. On the contrary, perhaps my amendment to tobacco tax increased the price of the box in the longer term, but more than the government proposes. We criticized the cadastral fee, criticized life insurance policies for citizens in the next taxation of technical provisions. So I know you want to turn around, but the truth was completely, completely different. But let's see how it is. If I were to take this seriously and trust the Minister as if I did not trust him on this point - how is it that the draft law on parental contribution went to the House and at that time you did not even vote as Social Democrats for the draft state budget? Do you remember that summer show at the Treasury Department looking for $20 billion? And then you found ten. It is simply not true that you need to increase taxes in order to increase your parental contribution. That's not true. That's your fairy tale that you may believe. But it's just not like that. And we tell voters and citizens the truth. It's not necessary. How come you don't mind having a digital tax in your state budget with a $2.1 billion income tax? Is that okay with you? We accepted it, it's under the distinctive ability to hit exactly tax revenue, we understand that. So even the $8 billion doesn't depend on whether the tax package is approved - yes or no. And if we argue about what the priorities are, then the priority for us on these two points is clear. We are in favour of increasing the parental contribution and at the same time we are opposed to increasing taxes. That's a perfectly logical procedure. I just remind you that even without the tax package, you have approximately CZK 130 billion - Minister - more for next year than this year. So when I calculate the mandatorial expenses agreed by the House - 36 billion pensions, and let's say 8 or 12 billion parental contributions, depending on the variant that passes, it's only half of the increase in tax revenue for next year. Just half of it. So there's no chance that the money wouldn't be there. And that's it. So either that priority is the first point for you, so let's discuss it with us today and vote. Then we can vote the tax package sometime soon. We've already said everything we've said. We won't be performing for another second on the tax package. Moreover, we said that we would not participate in the final vote. So it's going to be quite smooth. But if your priority is taxes first, and then your parental contribution, I understand. I respect that. It's just the opposite priority than we have. There's nothing wrong with that except that it's the other way around. And you're trying - in my opinion, unsuccessfully, because we're showing you the truth - to turn it around. This is where I heard Mr. Chvojka's excited words about 2:00 p.m. I mean, he suggested the same thing! Just at another meeting, and he broke the deal. That's all. And we're gonna give a friendly gesture to get this parent to discuss, and you don't like it again. You have a problem with that again. You don't want to discuss this again! And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u30	There. Madam Secretary Schillerová, wait a minute. With priority rights, President Kalousek has applied before you and will prepare Minister Alena Schillerová, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor. I do not like to say this, but after the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Interior presented total ignorance of budgetary issues. The money doesn't have bows, Mr. Home Secretary. It's not that the parent has to choose from alcohol, gambling, alcohol, and other taxes that you raise in the tax package. It can be at the expense of other expenses. It is simply a matter of government budget priorities, which are absolutely free. And there isn't the slightest budgetary correlation. There's a simple question. What's more important to you? Approval of parental allowance or tax increase? You've been offered a fair offer for several times so that we can all vote on the parental contribution. And you say, "No, no, no, no. Only when the tax increase is approved, because it has a correlation. He doesn't! This is not even a social insurance that has a correlation with the payment of pensions or a health insurance that has a correlation with the payment decree. That's just the revenue of the state budget. Then there's a Chinese wall and then there's expenses. And there are no bows in between.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u32	Now with the priority right of Secretary Alena Schillerová, so far the last request for a performance. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me say a few words. Let's go pour some pure wine what's going on here. This is going to be a very interesting debate. We, as our minority government, have concluded a government statement, and there we have done some work. The parental contribution was one of the things we agreed on, our coalition government. We have also agreed to fight addiction, we have agreed to raise the salaries of teachers, we are holding this commitment. We agreed on other things. We raise pensions, etc. And we're doing all that. And I would like to say that this very undignified debate - an undignified debate, I really do not think that citizens can be pleased about this debate. So I actually got a proposal from the opposition. To this day, I felt bound by a debate that was internal, but since the opposition Members had already raised it today that they had given me the proposal and even described it indirectly here, I will simply explain it. Now I don't feel like being tied up with just any... Some kind of deal, 'cause it sounded like a microphone in here. I have been proposed that the package will cease to be complete if three amendments are passed. The first is to exempt life insurance from the creation of insurance reserves. The second is gambling. Either it stays as it is, or it goes through a proposal that actually returns the two basic rates to 23 percent - and so it raises the truth, the machines at 38, but since we're going to destroy the machines within a year or two, that's the way we go very strongly. Yesterday I didn'tabene had a foreign gambling conference where I put it hard again, all those numbers, all of them. And the third was the proposal, and it would be for discussion if necessary, that was the proposal that the Minister of Agriculture came up with so that we would not want to increase the fee for the cadastral, so that I should be correct. These three amendments. [[16.10 hours]] That's exactly the point, folks. That's exactly the point. About this lobbied exception for insurance companies, about us being 20 years, about not being effective on January 1, 2020, because insurance companies get not five years, but six years, and then maybe something happens after the election, and maybe it'll turn around again. That's the point. And gambling. And gambling, my friends. It's a gamble, too. Let's face it. And these are exactly the things that we, this government, supported by the left spectrum, do not want. We've heard a whole bunch of things about insurance companies around here. For three and a half hours, President Kalousek here lectured, quoting Solvency II's explanatory report. No one could understand her. Mostly insurance experts. I don't know if there is one. I don't want to touch anyone. This message has - I know you'll teach me again that it has articles and I don't know what everything is. The important thing is that there are about 151 points, it doesn't matter if the heads, the articles, and only 20 relate to the creation of insurance reserves. And yet, if you were to listen to the hour he was talking about today, he even said that the Solvency II is set up so that basically when reserves are formed, I'm going to say it in a very simple way, let those who are not insurance experts understand me when reserves are formed, so the Solvency risk is actually secured at 99.5 percent. And we want those solvency reserves to be tax-acceptable. But that's all. That's all. And the rumors that we're nationalizing insurance? We're creating some kind of state insurance company here where we're transferring? These are private subjects. What kind of insurance policy? And the rumors that life insurance is going to go up? Please. A financial arbiter falls into the Ministry of Finance's gesture. He solves cases where basically people turn to him, he's independent, but he's assigned to the resort, he deals with cases where people turn to him about how much they paid on insurance and how much they got from the seller, or when they canceled insurance, etc. These are specific cases and specific amounts. And basically, if insurance companies are going to start threatening themselves with this, then kindly lower their fees and lower their outrageous intermediary contracts. And I don't have to talk about gambling. He was standing next to me yesterday at an addiction expert conference. I just lost my name. He was a respected expert. Unfortunately, I don't know the name now. And he said, since the '90s, there's been legislation that gamblers have created for their needs to suit them. And it was up to Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance, and be angry or not, who pushed through the House of Deputies a revolutionary gambling law that made us simply not a casino in the heart of Europe. That's what this is about. That's the whole point. That's the point! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u34	Now here I have three applications with priority rights. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek will be the first to perform. The chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Marek Výborný and the chairman of the ODS club Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor. Please, let's not shout at each other. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the Minister confirmed that she really had a fair political offer. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] And yes, yes, it was, and I don't think I'm saying this for the first time, if you were listening to me in the morning, so I said it, too, it was three amendments. It's not insurance, it's insurance. Life insurance. Again, I stress that technical provisions for life insurance have never been taxed in the past. Never! They were always just governed by internal regulations, regulators and internal collateral. Yes, technical provisions for non-life insurance have been taxed. This has indeed been removed by the adoption of Mr Suchánek's amendment. But life insurance, two-thirds of the portfolio, the technical reserves have never been taxed because it doesn't make any sense. The life insurance is a government-supported product. Each of us - I sign up for a conflict of interest, I also have life insurance - each of us who have life insurance, we can write off the corresponding amount of tax each year, because it is capital insurance, and in addition to hoping that nothing will happen to us, and so we will not be paid the insurance for being injured or that we died, that after the termination of the contract we will receive the saved amount, including, of course, the capital return. That's the point of capital life insurance. If we tax technical provisions, we will increase insurance costs and the yield will be smaller. That's very logical. It's just a nationalization of some of the life insurance benefits the government is committing. She could almost have thought of taxing the health insurance reserves. You didn't happen to think of that? But you could, because it gives exactly the same logic. It would be the same stupid thing. So it wasn't about insurance companies, it was about 5.5 million insurance policies that were concluded by citizens of the Czech Republic, and which you want to nationalize part of their revenues from their insurance policies. That's one. Two. It wasn't a gamble. It wasn't gambling, but it was...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u36	I'm gonna ask you to calm down. I also have a request from the Members in the benches that they can't hear. So I'm gonna ask you to calm down. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u37	Secondly, it was not a gamble, but it was a logical distinction between what is formed by addiction, on which there is no dependence. In other words, it was not acceptable for many of us not to move with one percent of the tax burden on slot machines, but everything else increased. You guys made it through an absurdum. You left the slot machines alone and raised the lottery to the level of the slot machines. But it's not a fight against addiction. This is a fight for those who own slot machines. There's no way this can be a struggle with addiction, because there's no evidence of any addiction to being a sportsman. And, yes, thirdly, it's a cadastral office. If you think it's right that people are going to pay double the charges on the cadastral, we don't think so. The impact of these three proposals on budget 2020 is absolutely minimal - in hundreds of millions, because, of course, the impact of taxation of technical life insurance reserves is projected until 2021, not 2020. I have no objection to you rejecting this serious offer. But let it be said over and over again that instead of concluding a political agreement with the opposition, you have deliberately decided to break the law and consider it better. Okay. You think it's better. I don't think the government is supposed to break the law that no Member should knowingly break the law. You think so. So much for the deal. And now for the government's programming statement. Let's get some pure wine. The government has published some programming statement, and the Minister is referring to its points that it wants to carry out. Isn't there also a cancellation of a super-gross wage in that programming statement? As far as I know. I even remember there was a Sobotkův government in the program statement. If we have come to the government and I have tabled an amendment that has disrupted the super gross wage, the government has opposed its programming statement and voted against this proposal. And we could continue with the programming statement on the next item. You simply refer to the programming statement when it suits you, but when you are called to account for its implementation, whether it concerns the abolition of a supergross wage or pension reform or anything else, suddenly the government's programming statement is not important because you work and drive according to your priorities and not according to the government's programming statement. [[16.20 hours]] Three. You took ten thousand families really hostage. In discussing the tax package, you purposefully tied the parental contribution with taxes and said: We will not give these families anything until you, the coalition, allow us to raise taxes. But there is no correlation - I repeat - again. Those laws don't have bows, and if that's how you understood it, then I have to ask a rhetorical question: why didn't you put it in one package? If you didn't have any trouble putting nine laws in one package, then why didn't you add a parental contribution to that? And you didn't say well, does it belong together? But you didn't even say that at first reading, you didn't say that at second reading, you say that now, completely purposefully and falsely in third reading! I read on Mrs Valachová's social media, who says: "The opposition takes young families hostage, but we will not give up! " Who's taking young families hostage here? Of course you did! Because you won't allow a parental contribution to be voted before the tax package is announced. But once again, it doesn't have anything to do with each other, it's a purposeful and false argument!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u38	I am just pointing out now, I have a factual point here, but we are not in the debate, so factual remarks cannot be made, and Members without priority rights only on the proposal of the programme. So let's keep going. And there's an extra limit without prior rights for five minutes. So now the MP, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný, will be prepared by the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and subsequently on behalf of the ČSSD club, Ms Kateřina Valachová. They are not real now, no, now only Members with priority rights, we are not in the debate. A Member with no prior rights only to propose a programme and still has a limit of five minutes. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I feel that if the public is watching this - and I hope not - she must be completely confused about it, and we are completely incomprehensible, incomprehensible and ridiculous. But there's one thing I have to do here. The Minister here spoke en bloc about the opposition's discussion of a proposal. So I can clearly say for KDU-ČSL that we did not receive any proposal from the Minister, and neither did we with the Minister, although I repeatedly called on her to do so, that it would be good for all of us, not to sit internally, but to talk publicly about whether we were able to reach a consensus on the tax package, so she never came up with anything like this. So, Madam Secretary - who is not here - so if he is standing here not listening to me, so if you ever talk about the opposition, please be specific, because there really was no such thing as KDU-ČSL. And I would like to ask, there are clear proposals, I would not like to spend the next six months going back to something that has been voted today, because all the amendments to the 500th, tax package, have been voted on. I don't think there's any point in putting it back. And if it really is the same priority for you as for KDU-ČSL parents, families and parental contribution, then I think it is completely petty by Minister Schillerová and the ANO movement to argue here whether the parental contribution is to be voted on Wednesday afternoon or evening and on Friday morning tax package or vice versa. It's here from us clearly set on the table, let's open up and finish the debate on the parental contribution. That's what those people out there are interested in. That's what we promised them, there's a consensus across the House, and a fair increase in parental contribution to our families is a priority for all of us. So I don't understand why those parents are some of you, and I have to say from the government coalition, you're taking hostages. Let's negotiate here, it's perfectly clear, given. On Friday, the government will finish here and vote in the finals for what they've pushed into force here, that's a whole other thing. There's no point going back to that now. But let's vote on the proposals that are here. And I believe that the government will proceed to what we have offered fair and fair because, by the way, Minister Maláčová last week on Sunday, Madam Secretary - if she had listened to me, she would not have listened to me - so last week on Sunday she guaranteed on a private television that last week the parental contribution will be voted out. That this is a priority of social democracy, a priority of government. And I promised her we'd help her. Well, Friday didn't work out, so we explained that it was a little something, Madam Secretary, I'm not gonna say what it was, I just couldn't. It's tonight. I'm ready and I believe - it's 16.24 - at 18.24, Madam Secretary, you can make it to the news, you can make it to the news, let's vote it out! Parental contribution! You have a unique opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u40	The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will now be prepared on behalf of the ČSSD club by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u41	So I would just like to respond briefly to Secretary Schillerová's speech, and I will not return the debate to the technical reserves. I won't. I really don't. But I want to set the record straight with one fact. They were members of the ODS and many local politicians, such as Jana Černochová or Roman Onderka, whether I name from both sides the political spectrum of municipal policy, who have proposed and thanks to us have exercised the authority for municipalities to fight gambling. Long before Andrej Babiš came into politics. Let's say it all! Czech politics did not begin with the arrival of Andrej Babiš. We're not as fascinated by him as some of his fellow party members are, and we remember. So it was the pressure of local politicians, many ODS politicians in particular. Jana Černochová passed the bill and then applied it in her city area, there is zero tolerance, long before that. Just to be clear, I wouldn't talk about it any other way. And then, Madam Secretary, allow me, as a conservative politician, I do not comment on closed negotiations. I was invited to the meeting, I was involved in the meeting. Besides what you're presenting here, part of those meetings, I'm not gonna confirm it, or disprove it, and I could quote. Not just our designs. I could quote what was said from each of the participants in the hearing. But you just don't do that. I said let's make a deal! Worst thing that can happen to us in quotes is that we don't make a deal. When I got word we weren't gonna make a deal, I answered calmly: OK, I'll take it from here. It's a normal procedure. But it's not normal to bring up part of a closed negotiation and gain some kind of media advantage. I'm not gonna take advantage of it, I'm not gonna do the same, I'm not gonna quote you, I'm not gonna quote you, I'm not gonna quote myself, President Faltýnek or President Kalousek, there were four of us in that meeting. You chose the format, I politely figured out the meeting. And even though we didn't agree, that's just what happens in politics. But I consider it incorrect to say only a part of this behavior here. Just information: We had a meeting, some suggestions came in, we didn't agree. That's correct. That's also consistent with reality. That's all I'm gonna do. And I'm saying I'm not going back to the debate in terms of the tax package. We've talked about it as much as you've allowed us to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u42	Now with the priority right of Mrs Kateřina Valachová on behalf of the ČSSD Club, the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. So far, the last two applications. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u43	The opposition takes the young family with children hostage. It sounded here through the President from the mouth of Miroslav Kalousek. It would be good for you to listen to yourselves as opposed. He quoted or referred to my statement. That's why I'm recapitulating. Young families with children are waiting for an increase in parental allowance. From the last few days, it would seem that they are still waiting from the time of right-wing governments, when you apparently promised them this, you pushed them, you secured the money, you processed the law, your labour and social ministers brought it up, and since then young families with children have been waiting for the right-wing opposition to arrange it for them. Normally, our government has invaded it. She got in the way. Government of Social Democracy and the ANO movement. She put it in the program, gained confidence in the House. Our Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has processed it, presented it, obtained a coalition agreement to put it in the House, and now we're blocking it ourselves! Do you want young families with children to think that? Are you kidding me? I answer you through the President: You are blocking an increase in parental contribution for young families with children! And now I'm going to explain why. [[16.30 hours]] It is because the parental contribution quite proven as a topic, and its increase, brought social democracy. It is one of the reasons why this government of the ANO movement and social democracy, which sometimes has its advantages, sometimes its disadvantages, is also created, but this is definitely an advantage. It's an advantage for young families with children. The whole meeting, not just this, but the previous and previous, you take social democracy into your mouth. You're attacking the cohesion of a minority government coalition. You do it repeatedly. You repeatedly take into the mouth of the Social Democrats, repeatedly blackmailing and pretending that we are the ones blocking the parental contribution, increasing it. None of this is true. It's a lie! As regards the extraordinary meeting convened by the coalition of social democracy and the YES movement, is there only a tax package? From the beginning, and you know it, there's a tax package and there's a parental contribution. The meeting has two points. You're blocking it so it doesn't get into the parental allowance. (?) And now for what the Social Democratic President Jan Hamáček mentioned through you. It also concerns social democracy. Citizens remember, remember very well, when our Minister of Labour and Social Affairs came up with an increase in contribution, parental contribution for young families, and wanted for everyone, for all the increase in parental contribution, so citizens and citizens remember the litany that she went crazy, that she was throwing money away, she doesn't have the money to take it for everyone, etc. A series of coalition negotiations followed. At this point, we have an agreement with our coalition partner, and we have provided funds for it. Among other things, not only, but also through a tax package. And all of a sudden, it bothers you that horrifying idea that social democracy could agree with the YES movement, could push for something for people, and could find funds for it, and our Minister not only helps young families with children, but is also budgetaryly responsible. Well, that's outrageous! That really pisses you off! That is why you are constantly attacking the way we discuss two laws as a government coalition. We're trying to get through an emergency meeting. Everyone knows the whole Republic knows that there are these two points, and you're blocking it! [[raised voice]] Yes, the right-wing opposition is blocking it. And since Výborný, who was the head of the KDU-ČSL, had to admit that there is a different approach of the Citizen's Democratic Party, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates in terms of access to parental contribution, to increase it. That's right. It will also be confirmed through the President's Finance Minister that if Alena Schillerová spoke here as Finance Minister about so-called. the offer of the opposition that it was really only the Citizen's Democratic Party and the TOP 09. Isn't that right? [[Minister off the microphone: Yes.]] I want it to be said here, so it's not unfair to KDU-ČSL. Neither does the Pirate Party. What you've been doing lately, especially the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09, is obstruction. Among other things, you confessed to yourself when you had a hysterical fit from the fact that the Labour Minister dared to comment on all the amendments that fell in the direction of increasing the parental contribution! [[raised voice]] Obstruction! And you said it here! You said it for the Constitutional Court and for the log! Forty-five minutes is obstruction. Obstruction! But you can't choose at one point that it's obstruction, and at the other, you can't! You can't say that 15 posts will check out, why not, in five seconds, and in two, we volunteered and we want to talk. You can't choose. That's not how it works. So, yes, you take, the Citizen Democratic Party and the TOP 09, there is a great deal of regret as a hostage to a young family with children, and nothing prevents it from being the last, the last vote in the tax package, the last vote, most opposition is no longer building a tax package. It doesn't. Stop it, let's declare the tax package, I know you don't agree, we know why, it's a matter of majority and minority, and let's approve the parental contribution. We can do both, and we can do it today. Finally, I apologize for exceeding the noise limits, especially towards some of my colleagues, because I got carried away and perhaps it was unpleasant to sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u44	Thank you. So now Vice-President Filip with priority rights, then Vice-President Okamura and then Vice-President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u45	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, it is long over half an hour after the beginning of the meeting, when a change in the agendas may be proposed. The proposals didn't go well, so we can vote them off and continue. But let me make two comments after all. So much Phariseeism, half-truth, and the lies you hear here are unbelievable! Here are the documents from 2008, 2012 and others, when the ODS worked in a way that blamed everyone! [[Applause from the left]] It violated the Rules of Procedure only to enforce its matters which had a severe impact on the citizens of the Czech Republic! And now they're gonna blame somebody for trying to enforce a bill here? Please, what are we talking about? I'd cry when I hear Miroslav Kalousek! This is unbelievable! If I could only compare his words on Friday morning and Friday at noon, I'd have to go crazy! Can't you really see your mouth? It has not yet happened here to hold a debate that is not permitted, there is no provision of the Rules of Procedure on the debate before the final vote! No provisions! There is no debate. There is not a single provision in the Rules of Procedure on the debate, and so far we have always respected the fact that the parliamentary club will give its opinion before the final vote. That's a mouth that's not described, but it's respected. But that statement on how TOP 09 will vote, said Miroslav Kalousek in the second sentence of his performance, so we know him. What is it, then? In this press 509, well, if they still want to talk, we heard the position KDU-ČSL, we heard the position ODS, we heard the opinion TOP 09. What is it, then? Why is parental contribution to be allocated before the final vote on the tax package? 'Cause somebody here wants to do some reconnaissance. It's brighter and more transparent than glass! Because Zbyněk Stanjura always says it out loud. The government can't rule, it can't enforce its own bill. How will the right-wing opposition achieve this? That, of course, he's going to be able to build up the whole Friday for the third reading, he's going to propose amendments to the program, thirty-seven performances, some even twice to block the day for the third reading. And then, calmly, shamelessly, they're gonna say that there wasn't so much and so many hours for a third reading debate because it worked out the time for something else! Please, if this isn't obstruction, I say - it's obstruction! Yes, I agree, obstruction is part of politics. But at least admit it, your target is the only one! Because you do not rule, so damage the citizens of the Czech Republic! And you make me really sick!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u46	Good evening. I've got some order here right now. First Vice-President Okamura and then Vice-President Kalousek... sorry, President Kalousek, then Vice-President Fiala, then Vice-President Kalousek...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 4:30 in the afternoon. We haven't even gotten out of the SPD yet, because we can't watch you argue with all the other parties here, almost all of them, and we can't get to increasing the parental contribution to desperate moms. Let me get this straight. It's basically just two things here all day. First, the government raises taxes. The government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement increases taxes and we disagree with that in the SPD, but we don't do any obstructions here, it has to be evaluated by voters in elections. And secondly, the government refuses to increase parental contributions to, for example, single mothers in financial distress. So here are two facts. And I don't know what you guys are always arguing about. [[16.40 hours]] I call you, let us vote, whether it is black and white, that the government increases taxes, and they also admit it, so let us simply show it clearly, and, secondly, let us vote on the parental contribution, especially on the amendment tabled here in the system in cooperation with two Members, Mr Bauer of the ODS, in cooperation with Ms Šafránková on behalf of the SPD, together put it there, and it is the amendment of the proposal that the parents should also be entitled to parental allowance, so that they will also receive those who are in desperate circumstances, the increased parental contribution as well. That's the point. And I'll give you an example. The government proposal to increase parental contribution, as suggested by Mrs Maláčová from ČSSD, causes the situation, for example. a single mom who has a child who may have been born 1. 9. 2016, i.e. has a child under four years of age, exhausted parental allowance and parental leave because she is in such a desperate financial situation that she went to work. For example, he has a salary - he works somewhere for 15 grand, but since she's exhausted, she shouldn't be entitled to an increase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u48	Mr Vice-President, I dare call you to the point, after all, we are discussing the agenda of the meeting at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u49	Well, I have priority rights, so I can do any topic at any time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u50	I understand, I'm just calling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u51	I can speak at any time on any subject, as well as every party chairman and member of the MP's club. And by the way, I am responding to the motion to amend the agenda because this is where the proposal was made by Mr. Kubíček on behalf of the ANO movement to include the parental contribution, so I am speaking quite cleverly to the point. So the problem here is that the government is actually discriminated against by a government proposal by some single parent who had to get into work early in order to secure themselves financially in any way, or secure their family. So the problem is that the government doesn't want to admit, in short, an increased parental contribution that should apply from 1. 1. 2020. All parents who have children under the age of four. That's a government proposal. That's a problem for us at the SPD. We don't want it like this. That is why we want the vote to finally vote on the proposal to increase parental contribution, which is what we are promoting. Last time at the meeting here a few days ago, the vote was blocked by Minister Maláčová from ČSSD, and I went to a meeting from 9:00 p.m. with the fact that it's an hour and a half to vote it out so that finally the moms - but he can also be a single dad, so that the single parents, the low-income ones, can finally be sure that it's from 1. 1. 2020 will be given, and instead of going ahead and voting, Minister Maláčová spoke here for an hour, so there was no time left for the vote and ČSSD delayed the vote. And, you know, I don't really care about the SPD whether we vote first on the tax package or parenting. We want to vote. We want to work. We want to move on. We have laws of our own to help the executioners here, and you're still blocking it, the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM. You're also blocking our proposal for direct responsibility here, the substantive responsibility of politicians, you're blocking the Act on Democratic referendums, some neatly castrated you've just presented here, it's completely useless, we've got a proposal here from the SPD pen, and we've got a proposal to cancel the fees of the OSA, those copyright fees, and that's what's been sitting here for a long time, and we've got our proposal from the SPD pen to solve the interest rate of the RPSN on consumer loans, and it's true in most EU countries, and you're blocking it for us. And you've been fighting here for a couple of days, each other, some sides with other parties. So are we finally gonna raise the parenting allowance to all moms in four years? Of course, those who work are our priority, we do not want to raise someone who is inadaptable. And we're also willing to vote on that government proposal where you raise taxes. We'll vote against it, but let's do it. So I'd really like to say something about this, end this charade here, let's work, let's vote. It's really unbearable what you're all doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u52	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová extends her apology for reasons of work until 17 hours. And now, please, Prime Minister Kalousek with priority rights, if possible, to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u53	Please forgive me, but I must respond to the insinuation or appearance of myself by both Vice-President Filip and Mrs Valachová. Vice-President Filip said that he would go crazy on me because nothing in the Rules of Procedure envisages a debate before the final vote. Well, I know that, too. According to him, nothing in the Rules of Procedure expects the club presidents to perform with the opinions of their clubs, that it is only customary to respect it here. Well, that's not true anymore. According to Section 67 - and I dare to quote it - whenever they so request, the President of the Republic, a member of the Government, the President and Vice-Presidents of the House, the President of the Parliamentary Club... Now there are other officials, I'll stay with the chairman of the MP's club, because it's me. And I have a question for you, Vice-President Filip, you have been here longer than I have, and you are a lawyer, would you tell me if the Rules of Procedure in any way restrict the length of the hearing, if the Rules of Procedure do not allow the House of Deputies to communicate their position for more than five minutes. Well, there's no such thing in the law. Why are you limiting something legally permitted? If you change the law, don't attack it because I'm following it. I don't think that's entirely fair. The fact is, it's even more unfair to break the law, as you did in the case of the tax package. Mrs Valachová said: well, who else than we did when we came up with the whole idea and presented it, so who other than us should be interested in approving the parental contribution? Well, I believe you through the President, Madame, but why haven't you already voted? And why don't you want to vote now? It's all over again. You had the opportunity to vote, you have the opportunity to vote now, and you still don't want to vote because you say: when the tax package is voted, it doesn't make any sense to us before, because it's connected. And now I dare to ask you and Minister Hamáček and other carriers of this breathtaking argument a rhetorical question. If it had become hypothetical, the parental contribution and the tax package would have been voted out, the tax package would have been returned to the House by the Senate, while the parental contribution would have been approved by the Senate and there would have been no 100 votes in the House for the tax package, and in the end the tax package would not have been approved, social democracy would have stood out and said "we must immediately reduce the parental contribution because the tax package has not been approved"? You don't have to answer, I know what your position would be. Answer yourself what your position would be, and hopefully everyone will understand how false, manipulative, and lying your argument is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u54	Thank you. Now Vice-President Fiala, then President Výborný and Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u55	Mr President, I will only respond briefly to Mrs Valachová's speech. Madam President, you were so upset that you called the Citizen Democratic Party. So I'm just correcting, we're the Civil Democratic Party, but of course I didn't get off because of that. You attacked us very hard in your contribution. And I'm not even going to comment on the individual things and the statements, but I'm going to say one simple thing or two to all the people who are looking at us. The first is: Who suggested that we discuss the parental contribution and vote now? Civil Democratic Party. We care about the parents who have a baby, not you. And now everyone will see how the ČSSD will vote, how the government coalition will vote, how it will stand up to our proposal. So instead of using the Prime Minister's words, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna use them, they're gonna show up on the actions of who's really serious about young families and who's just talking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u56	Thank you. Now, then, President Excellent, if he is present. [[It's not.]] If it is not, please ask Vice-President Filip, and then Mrs Valachová, on behalf of the CSSD Club, applied for me. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u57	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I have been addressed, so through you to Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Those with priority rights can use it. And, Mr Kalousek, there's a big difference between the use of preferential law and its abuse. Decent people do not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u58	Thank you. And now, Mrs Valachová. Then President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u59	A much calmer voice now, but I will respond equally strongly to both Mr Fiala and Mr Kalousek. I think that only the words they have said show that, for them too, the struggle to increase parental contributions is a big issue, diplomatically speaking. I was intrigued by the idea of doing things. Actions - so the action that shows that I want to increase my parental contribution to young families with children is that I will propose to the Chamber of Deputies his inclusion. That's a brave act. That's a brave act, really. For me, it is a much braver act to push for an increase in parental contribution to the programme statement, to enter a coalition with a coalition partner, to gain trust for him, to rule, to make a coalition agreement, and to secure tax revenues for it. It's such a small act. Slightly deed. As far as the House is concerned, it decides by vote. It shall act by a majority. You can talk, give harsh words, repeat yourself indefinitely, the truth is that you care more about sharpening and blocking the tax package, it's an ideal thing for you to do than admit that you have a minority, it's just a fact that you admit that everything has already been said, including the terms of the tax package approval. And at this point, you know that we're not going to accept them as most, but you're going to block the tax package, and you're blocking it, and everyone knows it, and so is the other point of the extraordinary meeting. Otherwise, we only need one vote when we're talking about the actions. One vote. That's how we raise our hand, and we can go to parental allowance. It's a game. You're talking about an idea dispute that I consider politically legitimate, but you're talking about an increase in taxes. And if I've chosen sharp words or tone, you know I'm not in the habit, colleagues from the right, it's not my style, it's because I defended social democracy, because we've done something and we're paying, and a lot! So we want to increase parental allowance for children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u60	Thank you. And the last one registered with priority rights at the moment is President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u61	Thank you. I do not want to do this over and over again, however, to the Rules of Procedure and to what Vice-President Filip said. Surely we can have an academic debate on where there is a limit to the law procedure, the use of the law and the abuse of the law. There may be different subjective views, and there's no exact calculation. But we have the Constitutional Court's position here, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure Act. [[emphatically]] And that's what you've done! And then the person who does it, goes and tells us something about abuse and exploitation. It's communist chuffe!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u62	That's all the business at the moment, so I'm going to call my colleagues into the hall and move on to the vote. There are four votes ahead. First of all, there is a proposal to set aside the time for third reading today from 16 to 19 hours, if I have noted this correctly. We would then vote on Mr Kubíček's counterproposal to include today... [[Dissenting voices from the right.]] That's how I took it. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u63	There are no counterproposals when we propose to place a point or reschedule. Mr Kubíček's proposal is legitimate, but it is different from mine, so my proposal should be voted on first, then Mr Kubíček's proposal. And I don't know which one is the fourth, I don't want to say now. That's the way to proceed. I think we are also in agreement with the proposers of individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u64	If there is no protest against this, we would first vote on the inclusion of paragraph 207 as the first point today, that is, before the points that are already firmly placed there, and then on Mr Kubíček's proposal before any other fixed points, that is to start. And the fourth proposal is a proposal for us to negotiate today after 19th and 21st hours, both meritorically and in a procedural manner, on possible ordinary bills, not at third reading. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out, please sign up with your cards again. President Michálek wants to clarify his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u65	In order for everyone to note this, the last time you read the last draft, it's only in relation to the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u66	Yes, to the items included - the execution order. It's points 49 and 50. I think it's obvious what we're going to vote on. I'll always say it. So first of all, we're going to set up for the day and the time from 16 to 19 o'clock for... third reading. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] The fact that we've wasted some time on this is another question. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 215, 176 Members and Members are registered, for 175, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we set aside time. Now, the proposal for us to include paragraph 207 as the first item in this afternoon's negotiations is the House Press 490. This is state social support. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, serial number 216, 174 Members and Members are registered, for 80, against no one. The motion was not accepted. And now, Mr Kubíček's proposal to include paragraph 206 as the first item of this afternoon's meeting, which is the tax package. Initiating vote. [[Objection from the O.R. that point 207 is still missing.]] He's not there anymore, that's what we voted for. I'm ending this act as a misconception. [[Laughter explosions and applause across the hall.]] Clearly, there is no consensus on what we are about to vote on. [[A lot of noise and restlessness in the hall. Off-the-Mike briefing.]] I'm sorry, I was taking over the chair at the time. So the suggestion is that it's 206 and then 207. I took it that, whether we include 207 or not, the proposal is to put point 206 first. [[17,00 hours]] So if there are no protests, it would be a vote that we will be the first two points of today's negotiations to include paragraphs 206 and 207 - in that order. [[Messenger. Stanjura: Especially.]] Especially vote? [[Yes.]] We've already voted. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] It's one suggestion. Of course, it is possible to ask that things which can be voted separately be voted separately. In that case, first point 206 and, if it passes, second point 207. [[Members of the government coalition: No!]] Mr. Chairman Kubíček. Please, Member, specify your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u67	Thank you for the floor. I proposed points 206 and 207 by one vote. If you would like to vote in paragraphs 206 and 207 - separate votes, you would have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u68	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u69	It is quite usual that when proposals for a programme are made, so if someone asks for individual proposals, such as President Faltýnek, five points, when someone asks for a vote, they vote on it individually. [[Nesroz.]] And that's it. We have asked, and we believe it will be granted. That's all. Or if you want to cancel this tradition, go ahead!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u70	I think the exchange took place, so I'm gonna redesign the procedure. If there is no consent, an objection may be made. So we will proceed by voting individually on Mr Kubíček's proposals, that is, first on the inclusion of point 206 - the tax package and then on point 207. So I'm opening the vote. Who's up for point 206? Who's against it? Thank you. In the 218 vote, 179 Members and Members are enrolled, for 98, against 77. The motion was accepted. And now, the second proposal, which is to include this point 207. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the number 219 vote, 179 Members and Members are nominated for 179. There is a vote check. [[Notes from the O.R. that everyone voted in favour.]] There's a request for a vote check, I'll grant it. [[Reobjection from the diaper.]] I understand that they were all in favour. I am fully aware of this, but there is a request for a vote to be checked, so I will give the President the opportunity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u71	[[He's laughing.]] That voting device really needs to be replaced. [[Laughs in the hall.]] For Mr. Chancellor, such a message. In the 218 vote - which was before, I obviously voted against, and I have a say in high school. I question voting in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-000-000.u72	This is an objection to the vote on the inclusion of paragraph 206, if I have caught it well. Yes. So I hope we all know what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the objection to the vote that we have included in the tax package. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour. Who's against the objection? Thank you. In the vote number 220, 179 Members and Members are registered, for 165, against no one. We've approved the objection. We will therefore repeat the vote by which we have put the tax package on today's agenda. I am opening the vote and I am asking again who is the first item in this meeting to include paragraph 206, that is, this afternoon's meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 221, 179 Members and Members are enrolled, for 98, against 79. The motion was accepted. And if no one is questioning the subsequent vote we had, then I would say that we have dealt with these proposals. However, there is still a proposal from President Michálek, that is, that we will act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms even after 19th and 21st hours. This does not concern third readings, just so that we all know what will be voted on, and only points 49 and 50 apply. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 222, 179 Members and Members are enrolled, for 168, against 1. The motion was accepted. This has dealt with all the proposals and can be continued according to the approved programme. Before opening the first item, President Stanjura apologizes for business reasons for 40 minutes and further apologises to us for today's meeting between 17.00 and 17.30 for personal reasons, Mr Benešík and for working reasons from 17.00 to the end of today's meeting by Mr Klaus. And now we've put the point number
