ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and other related Acts, as amended by Act No. 290/2017 Sb. House print 302/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Mr. Adam Vojtěch, the Minister of Health, will state the bill. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly once again comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Medicines, which is at the heart of establishing the so-called patient's drug record. [[Noise, movement of Members to the courtroom.]] The Ministry's prepared and government-approved amendment therefore represents the full legislative framework for mandatory electronic pre-writing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, there's no atmosphere for you to continue. I ask all Members to create the conditions for the Minister's speech. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u4	Okay, it'll be very brief. So this proposal actually creates a full legislative framework for mandatory electronic prescription of medicinal products with the extension of the so-called drug record of the patient that was promised when the electronic recipe was prepared, and so we are fulfilling this debt now. It is also based on the requirements of the wider professional public. This functionality will allow prescribers and pharmacists to consult data on prescribed and issued medicinal products of a particular patient, which will certainly lead to higher quality and safety of care for patients, which I believe is the priority of everyone here in the House, and therefore it is a logical use of actually the data that are already available today within the electronic prescription, and only in this way will this data be able to be shared and used for the benefit of patients and, of course, the health care professionals themselves who provide care. This will also enable good quality pharmacotherapy to be set up. In fact, the proposal is based on a broad debate between all interested groups, whether professional companies, building chambers, service providers, health insurance companies, of course also patient organisations, as well as the Office for Personal Data Protection, which supports this proposal. When discussing the draft law in committees, there were, in principle, several amendments, although the draft law in the Committee on Health in the Chamber of Deputies passed, was recommended for approval, so these several amendments essentially lead to better functioning in the area of use of the drug record in the area of prescription and dispensing of medicinal products, and I also supported these proposals. This is, for example, a modification of the time limits for accessing the drug record, introducing a cross-border electronic recipe, specifying the system for reporting the prices of medicinal products or adjusting the disposal of medicinal products. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, this proposal therefore anchors the key functionality of the eRecipe system, which will enable doctors and pharmacists to provide health services better and safer, as they will have information on the patient's drug history. I therefore believe that we are all concerned that care is good and safe, and that you will support this proposal. Thank you for your support and I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u5	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee, and the press was ordered to discuss the constitutional and petition committee. Committee resolutions are available as House prints 302/1 to 7. And now I beg Mrs Věra Adámková, who was rapporteur for the Health Guarantee Committee, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly just remind you of the fate of this House press, because it is a press that we place of great importance on, and we really see it as another functionality of the eRecipe, so that we can provide our patients with better care and, of course, have better data for them. [[11.30 hours]] This press came in the autumn of last year, when the press 262 actually ran parallel with it, which was an anti-fraud directive which, of course, was termed from the European Union. And in the press 262, some amendments have been read, which somewhat alter the structure of this press. Therefore, this press was interrupted after the agreement of legislation until the press 262, which today is Act No.44/2019 Coll., is in force. The Committee on Health paid great attention to this press, discussed it at eight meetings, the last 2 May of this year. The resolution we gave for second reading was delivered on 7 May of this year and reads: Resolution of the Committee on Health of the 43rd meeting of 2 May 2019: "After the opening word of the Minister for Health, Mr Mgr Adam Vojtěch, MP Věra Adámková's report, and after a debate by the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to the Government Bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other Related Acts, as amended by Act No. 290/2017 Coll., as amended by the amendments adopted.' For this second reading, we... Several amendments were then discussed and supported in this resolution. These proposals are, of course, in the system, but I understand that the issue is complex, not everyone is, of course, dedicated to it, so I will make a slight comment on the amendments so that you know what we have recommended. Amendment No. 1 is a legislative technical regulation that is following up on Act No.44/2019, or House Press 262, so there had to be some renumbering, possibly just technical modifications, because otherwise there would be duplication. So, of course, this amendment is recommended and moved forward by the Committee on Health. The second amendment, which the Committee on Health also recommends for adoption, is an amendment dealing with access to the drug record. It follows from the bill that the longest period, if this record can be kept, is five years. And after, of course, a massive debate has taken place with the terrain, with patient organisations, etc., this amendment has therefore taken place, when we recommend that the time for the attending doctor be really the whole five years when the record is valid, because there may be some changes, especially in the case of seizures that may not actually occur during the year. And the patient, let's face it, is not obliged to remember everything he takes or takes. So that's actually why we're putting more demands on the health part here, and we want them to monitor the possible interactions that may occur for five years. This was an amendment that was also supported. Another amendment is an amendment that addresses the regulation of the medicinal product, which must communicate the price and distribution. And here we define ourselves, and we want it to be just a medicine that is covered by public health insurance, because otherwise we would actually interfere with the possibility of free trade in other medicines. Thus, this amendment was also recommended. Another recommended amendment is an amendment that concerns for the first time in the history of the payment of preparations, for therapeutic effect, I warn only, produced from medicinal cannabis. After a large discussion with the patient's organizations, with prescribers, and also after seeing all the statistical data, we propose that these preparations containing cannabis for therapeutic use that the patient must use because he is otherwise unable to handle the condition, whether neurodegenerative diseases or some painful conditions, or the final state of the person to be covered by public health insurance at a dose of 30 grams per month, namely 90 per cent of the price determined. First of all, we believe that for the first time in the patient's history, he will have a clearly documented quality preparation - because we will not pretend that the patient who needs this medicine is looking for it and is looking for it differently - he will have a clear indication of what dose he will be in. Because of course there are patients, right, they're in the Gaussian distribution, and there's only a few at the end that need a bigger dose. The possibility of a prescription is maintained after approval by the review physician of the dose required. So it's not strictly limited to this dose. But this is the first time that this is an option, and we are asking very much for your support. Another amendment that was adopted is a small thing that has just become the Parliament's press 262, and it has escaped a little bit, there were two paragraphs where it would actually be for the same offense, i.e. certain failure to comply with the process and incorrect extradition was possible double penalty. Which we consider impossible. No one can be punished under any two laws and do this duplicate. Thus, here in the first Article 1 a new 28 is inserted after the previous Amendment point 27 which says that in Section 103 paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (j) point 2 shall be deleted with the words "or issued." Which only leaves it anchored in the simple version. Another amendment that brought terrain and eRecipe, which we welcome, concerns the possibility of issuing a cross-border recipe. This means that patients from other countries can choose drugs for their prescription in our pharmacies and vice versa. It is because some people who, of course, spend vacations somewhere near the border suddenly discover that they lack a cure, have a prescription, but they can no longer return, and then, of course, it is bad when they are looking in some way, or even pay dearly in another pharmacy, because, for example, the medicines can be bought abroad, but for full payment. It's pointless, it's possible for this recipe to be given to them, they have it with them. There's some kind of precision about how foreign or our pharmacist, depending on how reciprocal it is, is going to know that it's really not a fake, because it's really happening out there. [[unintelligible]] And that's because the national contact point is actually going to verify the patient's identity, yes, he's our patient, he's fully insured here, and he needs this medicine, and he's going to be given this medicine. This amendment also addresses the financial side of the matter, and none of the pharmacists will be harmful to another. As regards another amendment, it is an amendment tabled by Mr Kaňkovský, who concerns the method and surrender, the disposal of unused or unused medicinal products. It's just that it narrows down the way that the medicine that the patient has at home, and we all know that you're coming to dispose of the estate, and there are bags of medicine, and then there's a problem where to put it. I really don't recommend the ashtray, it's not appropriate, it could be abused. So they're handing over to the pharmacy and the pharmacy is obliged to take over. Of course, there are certain costs for those who are entitled to take over unusable medicines, so this amendment addresses this. It was consulted with some regional authorities and there was also support for representatives of these regions. These were amendments recommended and adopted by the Committee on Health. And, of course, we ask you to support them. So this was paragraph 1 of this resolution. Item 2: The Committee on Health empowers the Committee's rapporteur, Mrs Věra Adámková, to, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic or. It also proposed other necessary adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - we hope that there will be no need. Thirdly, the Committee's rapporteur hereby empowers Mrs Věra Adámková to familiarise herself with the Committee's position at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Otherwise, further clarifications are, of course, to be drawn up in the debate and then in the detailed debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u7	I thank Mrs Adámková, who informed us as rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Health. As I said before, other committees dealt with the proposal. I now ask the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mrs Věra Procházková, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u8	Thank you for your word, good day, everyone. At its meeting on 9 January 2019, the Constitutional Committee dealt with this bill before it was discussed in the Health Committee, i.e. without these amendments, which were mentioned by my previous speaker a moment ago. These are mostly medical or technical. At its meeting, the Constitutional Committee recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal, and at that time the Chamber of Deputies recommended Parliament to adopt a change to this bill, a supplement. This is a legislative technical change - the replacement of the deadline 1 January 2019 by 1 July 2019. This term is, of course, obsolent at this point, and therefore the new amendment from the Health Committee, where the so-called floating term is. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last committee to deal with the proposal was the petition committee. His rapporteur is Mrs Eva Matyášová. I ask her to take the floor and introduce us to the committee on the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u10	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. Allow me to present to you the conclusion of the petition committee. Resolution of the Committee on Petitions of the 14th meeting of 11 December 2018. The discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, Act on Medicines, as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other Related Acts, as amended by Act No. 219/2017 Coll. The Committee on Petitions, after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Health Filip Vrubel, recommends Eva Matyášová's report and after the debate Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Sb. She shall instruct the Committee rapporteur to report to Parliament at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the discussion of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions. It shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Before I open the debate, I will introduce you to the fact that Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes for this afternoon's meeting on account of urgent work issues, and Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologises from 15 to 18 hours for reasons of work. I am now opening a general debate. Mrs Adámková is the first to be enrolled in the general debate, and Mr Farhan will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the two amendments that we are putting to press 302. The first amendment concerns effectiveness. It is a House document 2803 and it is because in the original proposal there was a deadline that will, more or less, expire on 1 January 2019, and therefore in the second part of the article, the five words "day 1 January 2019" are replaced by the words "the first day of the second calendar month following its publication." And that is because, of course, if we were to commit to an early term, we know that we still have a third reading, and then the Senate is, and we certainly want to be clear here for the terrain that, of course, is waiting for this. Therefore, we propose that the date originally proposed is completely obsolent, irrelevant and has nothing to do in the law. So much first. And the second amendment I would like to put forward here is House document 2805, by the authors Adámková - Nacher. It is a certain modification of advertising for sale medicines, medicines. And that's because this ad for the dietary supplement that concerns it is now a little bit in the vacuum. It is certainly good that people can, of course, buy other preparations, not only those that are prescription and the like, but because the market is faster than us and the manufacturers are also faster than we are, so there has been a thing that we did not fully appreciate, and I think that even the submitters did not count on it in 2017, because many preparations that can be administered as a medicinal product and a food supplement, whether they are dried teas and the like, have been washed into a group of food supplements, but unfortunately also a dietary supplement may be inappropriate for some patients, even very harmful. Therefore, we recommend, first, that we insert a third part, which sounds like a change to the advertising regulation law, and it clearly states that in any case, in Section 5d at the end of the text of paragraph 3, the words must be plain, in the case of printed advertising a well readable challenge "consult the use with a doctor or pharmacist." It may seem like a very small thing to you and irrelevant, but it is not. I just want to draw your attention exemplaryly to the vitamins that our public considers to be quite beneficial and, more or less, eat on pounds, often unjustified. It is true that overdose with vitamins soluble in water is very difficult at normal kidney function, not that it would not be quite possible, but difficult, however there is a whole range of vitamins that are soluble in fats, and here it is very well possible to do overdose, perhaps even poisoning, whether it is vitamin A or E, D and so on, and here, of course, people do not have to have this knowledge. We believe that this simple sentence will first tell them that it is not completely impunity, and otherwise I can assure you, because I have served for years in the infectious department, that it is not summer, that especially anxious grandmothers do not bring their children there because they have jaundice, and it is an overdose of vitamin A, because they want the city child to finally know that it is in the village, so they get massive carrots and come really yellow. It usually ends very well, but it's completely unnecessary. And you know that 10 percent of our residents have asymptomatic kidney disease that they don't know about, so then any of these changes to the next treatment can really not be entirely appropriate, I don't want to say fatal. And of course, because there's already some part going on, some advertising, so if we didn't put in a transitional clause, it would be a little weird, like, Boston tea drink. Thus, the advertising for a dietary supplement, which is already created or distributed on the basis of contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of this law, is still being assessed under Law No. 40/1995 Coll., as amended, effective before the date of entry into force of this Act. A infringement proceedings pursuant to § 8 para. Article 1 (1) (o) and Article 8 (1) (a) of CRR. 1 point (r) of Act No. 40/1995 Coll., as amended, effective before the date of entry into force of this Act, initiated and definitively terminated until the date of entry into force shall be suspended. This is because, of course, the producers already had some products that they made in absolutely good faith and according to the law, and it is not possible then to ask them to withdraw it from the market in some way. I can't imagine. So that's the second part where we're asking for your support to allow for the current situation. And just to make you understand that it really isn't that we'd like to make another amendment and waste your time here, I have to assure you that you won't be able to find many pharmacies in the big cities right now to mix your teas. And that's not because they don't have the substances, but because the manufacturer, as I say, is ahead of us not a step, but perhaps a horse length, maybe a few horse lengths and, of course, very funnyly what would have to be as a medicinal product, which is very hard to assess, they have converted into a dietary supplement where, of course, they have significantly simpler rules. So you can buy a lot of these ingredients separately as a dietary supplement, but the pharmacist can't mix this treatment with food supplements, so here it is necessary to also on these bags, bags, or in what form it will be, that these people should consult at least the pharmacist and the doctor and of course discuss it, because even here it could be harmful to their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u13	Thank you. It is now Mr Farhan's turn in the debate, Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, members of the government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment briefly here in the general debate on my amendment, which I have put into the system under 'No'. 2804. It is an amendment to establish an authorisation for the State Institute for Drug Control to provide data relating to certificates issued pursuant to § 81 (1) of the EC Treaty. 1 for access to the electronic recipe system and other entities in the department. My proposal is that health service providers, doctors who have obtained this certificate in the eRecipe system, can use it to communicate with organisations that are managed by the Ministry of Health. A typical example is, for example, the Institute of Health Information and Statistics - IHIS. Under point (b) I am also inserting - outside the Health Department this information will then be provided in relation to the Czech Social Security Administration, which will use this data to verify the identity of treating doctors within the electronic disability system. I believe that this amendment will improve and simplify and speed up communication between health service providers and directly managed by the Ministry of Health and the Czech Social Security Administration. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u15	Thank you. It's Mr. Pávek's turn. Mr Profant will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, rapporteur, I would like to introduce you to my amendment, which is listed in the system under number 2709 and the essence of which is the abolition of the so-called 'unification'. market shares in the distribution of medicines. And it is imposed in a very simple way in this amendment by the obligation of distributors to deliver the medicine to any pharmacy within 48 hours, so that it can reach the patient in time. I'd make a brief comment. You have a reasoned report as part of the amendment, so I will not read it. But I would briefly comment on the need to cancel market shares with distributors. She got into law about three years ago. It was a very complicated process. Euphemistically, I believe that the main reason was the faith of some Members and perhaps even the ministries when market shares could contribute to better supply of medicines on our market. Three years' experience has shown that this is not the case, that it has evolved into a separate parasitic business, which, according to my information, accounts for approximately CZK 3.3 billion per year. Transferred to the day - every day we move this proposal away from our system, drugs worth about CZK 10 million disappear from our system. The problem with market shares is that some distributors have taken some shares for themselves. This would not have been so bad in itself if they had not found that the reexport, or export, of drugs that came to the Czech Republic for the needs of the Czech patient and Czech pharmacies, is far more profitable than the delivery to the pharmacies. And the number I've already talked about, over 3 billion a year, speaks for everything. Each article has its own representation throughout the system from manufacturer to distribution to pharmacy, each article has its own added value. That means the manufacturer makes the drug, it's definitely added value. The distributor stores, redistributes, distributes - also added value. Pharmacist records, issues, advises - added value. As long as it was a small report, I think the system was able to bear it, that is, when pharmacists, distributors here and there had a good opportunity to export some drugs back at a higher price, so it could be understood. But there's a couple of distributors who just made the drug report a major business. By the way, they're the ones who write you letters and tell you how bad it's gonna be when the market shares are canceled. I would like to tell you that this amendment has the support of the Ministry of Health, has the support of the Office for the Protection of Competition and has the support of the Chamber of Commerce in the Health Section. Market shares just got out of control. And if we're crying today that there's no drugs in pharmacies, that especially small, regional pharmacies don't get medication for their patients, if we cry that our patients don't get some medication because there's a shortage of drugs, it's usually not because the drugs aren't, but it's because for reporters, it's just a much better business when they take the drugs and take them out again, where they sell them a lot more expensive, because, as you know, our drug prices are regulated, that is, drug prices in the Czech Republic are lower than they are in the surrounding states. I won't comment on this any longer. I think it's gonna cause a lot of debate. It turns out that those who are carriers of this parasitic business have enough media and argumentation power to question this intention to abolish market shares. But I will then sign up for my proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u17	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Kasal is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just making a few comments about Mr. Pávek through you. First, when market shares were introduced into the law, the reexport was at least 5 billion. If you're saying it's 3, it's a $2 billion savings. Second thing - report, respectively. the market shares have absolutely nothing to do with what you've been putting here to sort of put drugs in every pharmacy. That's somewhere else. And the third thing-- this is definitely not part of the drug record. This is the sticker of the largest caliber. It's supposed to be dealt with in another law. That's what we agreed on. And I don't think it has anything to do here, because then the entire law on this record will be compromised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u19	Thank you. Mr Pávek will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u20	Thank you for the floor. Just a short line. I understand that we could raise a debate on this subject that will be endless. It is not that this proposal in any way threatens the amendment to the Act on Drugs. She certainly has my support and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u21	Thank you. Mr Profant will now speak in the general debate. Mr. Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u22	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to present to you the amendment which I propose with my colleague Petr Třešňák and Mr Mark Benda, who is under House document 2595. This amendment changes the opt-out system to opt-in, so the patient must actively decide that he wants his data to be shared with doctors. The main reason for this change is the constitutional right to privacy. We are mainly concerned with the protection of patients with stigmatizing diseases, such as sexually transmitted diseases, but also many others. [[12.00 hours]] The common counterargument is that this will destroy the entire system of drug records, that is, the positive that doctors will be able to share the medications, the information, the problem combinations of drugs and so on. However, unfortunately, there has been the fact that this is no longer resolved in the government's proposal, because there are a lot of categories of drugs missing, without which the information is completely incomplete. These are, for example, blue stripe recipes, opiates, of course, medicines without prescription, where you could probably understand it, although some of them are also not happy, there have already been mention of supplements, they are central medicines, served in some facilities. So for the doctor himself, the saying value will be very weak. Of course, as in specific matters, it will help, but if the patient is really unshared or he really doesn't know, it'll still be a problem. I think this is an area that should still be worked out, because it really sounds good that the doctor will see everything right away, but he will see very little, and it could lead him to naively assume that he sees everything there, but he won't see everything. And the second big argument is the quality of the IT system and the process of obtaining that consent, because if the process is set up well, the patient will have no problem. After all, we already have a lot of signatures here today for GDPR, large internet services normally require consent, your mobile phones ask you about the permissions of individual applications. And that's not such a big deal, and people really click it out massively. The problem, of course, with the Ministry, is that if it were the way we propose it, no one would sign up. But I think it's about the quality of it, if we allow people to sign up at the moment they need it, maybe through a doctor himself, who says, "I need to know, and if you don't know, give consent here, and I'll have access to the drug record." These are all things that really can be solved by quality implementation. It's just like when we have medical fees. And the fight is elsewhere because there was a problem with the introduction with the quality of forwarding patients, the change of money and all that. We just have to deal with these techniques, otherwise no system will take over. Just like the first time this drug record happens, we're gonna miss some important medications and some doctor makes a bad decision about it, so it can also mess up the whole system's reputation very badly. So I thank you for your attention, and I will apply to the proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. Have a good afternoon, everyone. And now Mr Nacher is in the debate, then Mr Janulík is in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to take the liberty of signing up for two amendments. A colleague named Věra Adámková has already introduced one here - 2805, which is the responsibility for advertising for spreaders, so I will no longer go into detail. I think it's prepared so that we could approve it this time, that it's nothing against nothing, no risks increase it, on the contrary, it turns out in practice that the enforcement of how it was set up is debatable. You will find the second amendment under number 2385 and it can be simply said that it is mail order sales, to allow mail order sales of prescription drugs. A few words about this. The current legislation does not allow delivery of medical prescription medicinal products within the Czech Republic, however in at least ten countries, as I have discovered, this is a common matter. I understand that this adjustment was originally motivated by higher protection of patients and consumers at a time when there was no electronicisation of the drug dispensation, but all of this changed. That is why I have been approached by a community of people with disabilities represented by the National Council of Persons with Disabilities with a proposal for this amendment, because the situation has changed significantly over the last five years from the negative that could have brought this five years ago or ten years ago to a significant positive, especially, please nicely, with the introduction of an electronic recipe and several registers associated with dispensing medicines. We need to realize that today there are a number of patients for whom to pick up medications sometimes can be very difficult. We're talking about people with disabilities, immobile patients, but also chronic patients who pick up medications that repeat the prescription of the same medicine, which means they can pick it up without seeing a doctor, but then they have to go to the pharmacy too. How does he deal with it today? The way they deal with it today is they send in their assistants or family members. I've just been talking to people with disabilities who haven't been to a pharmacy in the last five or ten years, they always get picked up. In other words, there is such an argument that I have heard most often on this amendment that it is necessary to have personal contact with the pharmacist; it doesn't take place today. The proposed amendment - in it I withdraw, or I propose to abolish the existing restrictions and extension of the possibility of dispensing medicinal products bound to a medical prescription through a shipping company, with the fact that there is a maintenance of the pharmacy's obligation to bear responsibility for the quality of delivery up to the patient's house, including the responsibility for selecting the transport company, which will meet the demanding time and, in particular, the technical conditions laid down by the relevant decree. It is precisely because it is still necessary to approve the relevant implementing decree, so I have moved efficiency even after the discussion, although I know that the Ministry has a neutral position on this, after consultation with the Ministry until 1 January 2021, so that there is sufficient time, however it would be offered to work from 1 January 2021. 1. 2020. As for the second objection that pharmacies are at risk, I found figures that 2,360 pharmacies worked here in 2006, almost 200 years later, even though the mail order sale of medicines for sale had already started to work. So there's no correlation between the creation of mail order sales and the disruption of pharmacies at the moment. Even so, and I have been communicating with both my fellow rapporteur here, the Minister, so if there were any unpredictable or unintended negative effects for me, I am prepared to adopt appropriate amendments to this amendment, because the only motivation is to help people with disabilities, not - which may occur, I do not know - some pharmacies that, on the contrary, would be helped at the expense of some other, perhaps chains and the like, really should not have this effect. It should be an effect to help people with disabilities in particular, immobile patients, so that they can follow up on eRecipe - it means that they can deal with it via text today - order the medicine through the mail order service. I think the time came in 2019. Then I will read exactly the figure in the detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u25	Thank you, too. And with a point of fact, Mr Kasal came forward. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just made two short notes. First, the obligation has not yet been lifted, and if the recipe is written, the performance of the insurance company is written and we are to examine the patient. That's just the way it is. And I want to point out almost a year and a half of the experience with eRecipe, which has caused at least a larger group of patients to feel that they will not go to the doctor at all, and they want to send medication only after the prescription. At that point, there's a risk that the doctor won't see him at all. So it's not because we're bothering the patient, but we're figuring out what condition he's in and if the treatment doesn't change. So I'd be very careful here. I'm not against it as such, but I don't think the time for its introduction has ripened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u27	I also thank you and, therefore, Mr Janulík, who is now enrolled in the general debate. Mr. Mr. Vymazal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, without the right to delay, I would merely recommend your attention, note which or what proposals have been passed by the committee, which the committee has approved and which it has not approved. Just in general, I would say that the committee will always accept those that come from doctors, and especially from doctors, I also count on them who actually write the recipes. We treat these people, we write the recipes, and we can figure out and we see the definite effects. I'm gonna tell my fellow pirates that there's really no way to judge the world from a computer monitor, especially not what's going on in the office. So I would be very careful that you tell us doctors who do this and we write what it brings or what it does or what it doesn't do. Now I'm referring specifically to the opt-out, opt-in idea, because I can't imagine in my practice requiring every patient to give me permission to look into the drug record. That's a pointless idea that can't even work in practice, and it would kill and destroy the whole thing, and it would lose the point at all. Under, I don't know, the good intention of protecting everything would have completely ceased to work, and it would have lost the sense that we doctors require. Because we meet patients, and we know what it's like when the warlord says, "I take those blue balls, doctor." But I don't know what blue marbles are. So now that I can look into the record and know exactly what it is, and of course, the software is designed so that they can look after me for possible drug interactions, etc., so that impact for us will be purely practical and huge and I think it can also be done - you don't see it at all and you don't have a chance to think about it because you don't do it, but maybe even in some cases it can reduce drug consumption, because it's written duplicates and it's written medications that are otherwise called, but they have the same chemical composition, etc. etc. Of course, there are a lot of impacts, which is why I'm very involved in letting go of the original intention, which means that if the patient doesn't actively revoke the right, the doctor will be able to look into it. That was for a Margo fellow Profant. And further, as far as mail order sales are concerned, he's also not a very good idea, because it looks good, but on the other hand, no one knows and no one can figure out what to do with the drug during the shipment. The fact that when a patient picks up a drug at a pharmacy, the responsibility is clear and only up to him. That's why I'm warning the patients, it's summer, you pick it up in the morning, you leave it in the car, it's gonna be 60 degrees in the car during the day before you leave work, and just the high temperatures can completely change the effect of the drug, but in winter, the low ones. So maybe we're alerting these people, but the mail order where some ukrajinec is carrying something, and who's responsible for that? So it's not even premeditated, and I think, as my colleague Kasal said, that the time has not come to this at this time. So once again, notice, in terms of market shares, I don't even want to talk about it, because a colleague -- always those lobbyists will just find some weaker piece in the herd and then they'll load it up, because we doctors have thrown them all out with it, because, of course, it doesn't belong to the material we're dealing with right now. I guess I could still talk like I've been here all along -- that's, I'd say, the most significant ones. Otherwise, I have an amendment after number three. Of course, it concerns purely practical things, so that it concerns only medicines covered by general health insurance, so that the unreserved things are removed from it and that the price is clearly defined. So there's nothing more to add. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u29	Thank you and now, with the factual remark of Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u30	Hello, Mr President, Minister, Madame Members. I would just like to follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Janulík. I have to say, when I look at it from the point of view of patients, I think he's right. I think the most important thing between a doctor and a patient is trust, and if we approach from the point of view of trust between a doctor and a patient, then we must want as patients, so that doctors can see the drug record. And only if anyone has any extraordinary reason to refuse, so let him have the opportunity to do so. But I think it's perfectly natural that the attending doctor, the doctor I'm going to go to with some of my problems, just sees what I'm taking, what medications I'm taking, because it's the only way he can really help me. I actually intercede to support the bill more or less the way it was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u31	Thank you and thank you for keeping time. I'm gonna ask for a little more peace of mind in the room, and I'm gonna introduce you to the note cards before I invite another speaker. Vice-President Petr Fiala apologizes to us from 14.30 pm to the end of the day; Mrs Brzobohatá apologises to us from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for health reasons; Mrs Richterová apologises to us from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for health reasons. And now, please, Mr Vymazal, who is duly entered into the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, I would like to mention here the reasons which led me to table two amendments to the amendment of the Committee on Health, and I would like to briefly present these proposals. Both relate to the payment of cannabis for medical use from health insurance. Only legislators have the right to limit the right to free health care guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This is the reasoning of the Constitutional Court, which is the alleged reason why the reimbursement of cannabis from health insurance must be dealt with by law, not by measures of a general nature, which would certainly be a faster solution. If I accept this premise, it is obvious to ask how, in this case, the legislator came to pay 90 per cent of the price for the end consumer in particular, that he decided to make it firmly anchored in the law. Why isn't it 100 percent? Why isn't it 60 percent? I have not met any calculation in this regard and, given the unstandardity of all the circumstances of this proposal for the reimbursement of cannabis, I also believe that there is no such calculation. In principle, I find that the 90 percent was simply sucked out of the finger and the legitimate restriction on entitlement to free health care was not addressed at all in this case. Mainly, it was necessary to start with the payments of medicines through the law in the case of cannabis, not penicillin. The Charter guarantees entitlement to free health care for all citizens, not just the centre of Gaussův' distribution. The fact that the Ministry of Health has drawn up a proposal that addresses, only partially, the problems of patients who are prescribed a maximum of 30 grams of cannabis per month, but who are not severely ill patients, is clear evidence that this initiative was intended only to silence patients and take away pirát from one of the arguments for regulating the handling of cannabis for personal use. [[12.20 hours]] If the payment of cannabis for therapeutic use should ultimately look like this, it would be better to simply discuss the amendment to the Act on Narcotic Drugs from the Pirate Party workshop, which, in addition to the availability of cannabis, solves problems related to prohibition of psychotropic substances. Finally, no medicinal product with the only exception of cannabis for therapeutic use is restricted by the amount of medicine that can be prescribed to the patient. No standard medicines, no highly addictive drugs, no highly toxic drugs, and not even those that are commonly used by patients, are put in the way of such obstacles as cannabis for therapeutic use. There is no moral legal or toxicological justification for this systemic restriction in the development of cannabis treatment. I would just like to add that the amount of cannabis for therapeutic use that a doctor may prescribe on a monthly basis is already once limited in the Ministry of Health Decree No. 236/2015 Sb., at a value of 180 grams per month. However, this limitation was not sufficient for the appellants to limit the amount of prescribed hemp to 30 grams per month. Thus, we are in a situation where a patient suffers, for example, chronic unsilenceable pain, taking high doses of toxic opioid medicines that are covered by health insurance and whose prescription is not limited, is forced to face extreme restrictions if he decides to start using cannabis. Cannabis whose toxicity is so low that it has not yet been quantified. On this basis, I tabled an amendment under the number of House document 2811, which instead of the original proposed remuneration 90 per cent introduces a full remuneration and which instead of the original limitation to a completely insufficient 30 grams per month leaves only the restriction given by Decree No. 236/2015 Sb., i.e. 180 grams per month. Since the same decree also specifies which diagnoses show genuine clinical efficacy of cannabis treatment, and limits the reimbursement to such diagnoses alone, I consider the full remuneration to be justified and proportionate. The second amendment, which I tabled under the number of House document 2812, concerns the maximum price of cannabis for calculating the remuneration. If the Ministry of Health cannot in any situation come out of the competitive price in the Czech Republic, for example because cannabis is not available from the procurement procedure or no procurement procedure was carried out by the Institute or the procurement procedure was unsuccessful, the Ministry must come out of the price of imported cannabis -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u33	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you and ask for more peace in the room, we're getting noise levels, we're not listening, and it's a shame. Please pay attention to the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u34	In this respect, my amendment mainly addresses the fact that the foreign price is taken into account so that if it is lower than the domestic maximum bid price, the maximum price for calculating the remuneration will be set as the maximum bid price in the tender procedure already carried out by the Institute. So this is about the limit of the lowest possible amount of cannabis for the subsequent payment, so that it does not take 90 per cent to pay Czech cannabis, but when it occurs and needs to import foreign cannabis, which will be more expensive, the resulting payment will only take 60 per cent. I will sign up for both amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u35	Thank you, and with a factual remark, Mrs Adámková is registered, then Mr Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a brief factual remark on the very nice proposals that have been made. Youth is enthusiastic, I almost envy it, because, of course, I will not return to this age category for the second time, but I must set some things straight. There is no - I would totally agree with what you said - but there is no 100% payment of all medicines in other sections of our republic. They pay extra for patients with heart failure and everyone else. They're always worth something to the cure. That's what the insurance company pays for, and then the rest could be the share. So it's not true that the others would have 100 percent paid, even though, of course, the interpretation, as you said, I understand what you meant. You introduced penicillin. I must warn you that, for example, penicillin for adults after erysipel, which is a rose, is paid only to a certain extent, the rest of the patients pay completely, fully, even though they serve it. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockers are used, which reduce the mortality rate to the cardiovascular system by 40 percent. And they're being paid off. And yet, according to the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, there would be free treatment. But I think that a state that doesn't have our economy, and I don't know anybody else in the world who would, except for Bahrain. I don't know. Otherwise, I'd like to warn you that all medications have maximum dosage for die. That means we can't transfer her. We can't give a daily dose, especially in cannabis preparations, because we don't know when the patient will be in pain, he doesn't know it either. So we could limit it. So that's where I think the moon is right. Otherwise, more or less, all the drugs, including the vitamins, have a daily dose. So there's also no impunity. But I also wish we had 100% paid for preparations, but that time is definitely not here yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u37	Thank you and thank you for keeping time. Now, with Mr Farhan's point of fact, he has then Vymazal the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For the most part, Mrs Adámková has already said it. I would simply add that the limit of 30 grams is not fixed because the review doctor may approve a much higher amount under Section 32b on the basis of the doctor's reasoned report. And I won't comment on it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u39	Thank you and please have Vymazal the Member with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u40	Thank you for the floor. Just for a very short time. The reference to penicillin was simply because all the other medicines have the payment provided for in the payment decree, and in the case of cannabis, you decided to go the way that the Constitutional Court set out and put the reimbursement into the law, although the fundamental human rights of the other medicines are restricted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u41	Thank you. These were all factual remarks at the moment. So, please, Mr Kaňkovský, who is duly entered into the general debate, is the last one at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u42	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me make a few comments on the amendment to the Act on Medicines, House Press 302. As has been said many times, the main feature of this bill is the establishment of an institute of so-called drug record. I've already said it here at first reading. I personally, as a doctor, as a Member, as well as the KDU-ČSL MP, have long called for the introduction of a drug record, especially in the context of the discussion on eRecipes. So I am glad that we have finally come to the conclusion that we already have a legislative proposal that introduces the pharmaceutical record. We have had a rather broad and rather demanding discussion in the guarantee committee for health care. Of course, it was also in other committees. We have discussed quite widely matters relating to the drug record. And perhaps the biggest discussion really concerned whether we should follow the opt-out path or opt-in consent of the patient. I must say that I personally, and I would say that most of my fellow Members from our parliamentary club are rather supporters of the opt-in regime. However, I am convinced that, and here it has already been said by some previous speakers, the risk that we would go strictly to the opt-in system, that means that every citizen would have to actively grant his consent to view the drug record, as I know a little bit of the Czech population, so I am convinced that we really should have a problem fulfilling the mission of the drug record. That means, although I am more of a real supporter of active consent to similar instruments in my life, here I am willing to make an exception and I will also pass it on as a guarantor of this press for our MP's club. Nevertheless, I expected - and we also held that discussion on the Health Committee - that the principle of disagreeing with those who would decide not to agree to look into their drug record would make it more user-friendly for citizens. We discussed this a lot on the Health Committee. I fear that for citizens who are from the far corners of the Republic, and I am thinking in particular of seniors or people who have some major health disability, and also those who are in the residential services, or social services, that going to CzechPoint for them to express their opposition to the drug record is not very user-friendly. [[12.30 hours]] This is where the discussion was very broad. We talked about possible other options, unfortunately we have not reached any consensual proposal until now. I'm sorry because I don't think it's really gonna be entirely user-friendly for seniors and their families, as I said. That's one point. Yet, as I said, we are willing to support the opt-out principle. The second problem that has arisen is the failure to resolve the comments made by some patient organisations, namely organizations that help patients with AIDS, some groups of patients who are oncologically ill or some groups of patients with severe psychiatric conditions. They requested an exception from the opt-out system, unfortunately their comments were not heard. In this sense, I shall submit an amendment under the number of House document 2801. We also discussed this on the Health Committee. It's not exactly easy. I realize that any exception can undermine the principle of the proposal. However, I think we owe it to patient organizations. If this proposal is not accepted, we can, of course, still discuss any change in the Senate's deliberations. Then I would have one more question towards the Minister. I've been giving him an update. It's not a surprise. As part of the discussions, we may have forgotten a little about one aspect of the drug record that is already actually affecting health professionals, and that is forensic responsibility. We have discussed all these benefits here, and I agree with them, and as a doctor, I look forward to seeing the patient's medical record, because, as my colleague, Janulík, mentioned here from practice, really the discussions about those blue-yellow, blue-green balls, capsules and the like are sometimes very demanding and very delayed in practice, and sometimes we really do not get the result. However, it is also necessary to have fun, and I hear it from my colleagues who have asked me to ask this question here - every activity of health care professionals and other professions is associated with forensic responsibility. And I can say as a man who has been dealing with both the complaint and the judicial agenda at my maternity hospital for 15 years, that these trials are often very complex not only in criminal terms but also in civil terms. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the forensic effects of the drug record on the medical community have also been discussed with representatives of the medical law society, with representatives of prosecutors, judges and the Ministry of Justice, because there are situations where the doctor has no problem looking into the drug record. It won't be a problem in common outpatient practice, but in urgent medicine it can be a problem. And it's also important to remember that the drug record isn't all-savory. We'll read in the drug record what was prescribed for a particular patient in some time sequence for medication, but at that point, we have no assurance that the patient is actually taking the medication. That means there's a real risk to the paramedic. I would like to ask the Minister if this has been discussed because we want safety for patients, but of course the health community also wants some safety for the performance of its profession. So here I'd like the Minister to comment. Otherwise, I can say for the KDU-ČSL club that we support the drug record. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Benda has yet to enter into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u44	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I will be brief. Unfortunately, there are a few things going together about how amendments were made during the discussion and some other things were added there, so the debate is unstructured, it is still jumping from marijuana and pharmacies to the drug record and back. Still, I wanted to make a brief comment on the drug record. I have no objection to it being created, but I consider it a great mistake of the resort and of the government as a whole, that it follows this mandatory path, that everyone is automatically on the register unless he says he doesn't want to be on the register. I just think that's a big mistake, a structural error in this government that still thinks we have to raise citizens in some way. Especially in my opinion about patients, it's exactly the other way around. Any patient who goes to his doctor, especially those elderly patients who trust that doctor, logically enough, he's supposed to be the one who explains and tells them, "Dear sir, it's useful for you, you take 14 medications, it's useful for you to keep this drug record, keep it." If anything happens to you when you come to the hospital for urgent admission, so that they know what you're taking, what you're supposed to prescribe or not to prescribe, where there's a conflict or not. But the doctor will tell his patient. He'll know it's underway. Why does anyone need to know my drug record when I'm not taking any medication? Why do I have to be in the system and ask to be removed from it? This way, it's completely backwards, I think it's wrong. I have discussed this several times with the Minister and with his various Deputys, both publicly and privately, where they say: Well, we're going to do a huge information campaign to explain to everyone that he can sign out. Those are campaigns that just throw money away instead of going completely natural. Each doctor will explain it to his patient and convince his patient that it is useful to him. And the patient will know why it's going on, why it's going on, whether it's good for him or not, and his personal doctor who's taking care of him will tell him. No, we're gonna say it's legal and we're gonna do a big information campaign. And there have also been some complications that arise with this, such as that they have to go to CzechPoint for example, there must be a verified signature and other and other things, which, of course, part of the population in this country cannot and will not be able to cope with, but it is probably no longer counted in the ideas of the Ministry of Health, virtually. These are exactly the ones they care about, and the state for them will decide what is good and right for them. I just feel that if we took the reverse path that I propose along with my fellow Pirates, and we said to ourselves: let's try to explain to people what's good for them, and not force them by law, we would do better to know those people, to know those doctors, and to know the overall perception of ourselves and our responsibility for our health, than when we go this way, which everyone says is mandatory, and who is a rebel or a punk, or as they say today, he can unsubscribe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Procházková are still included in the general debate with factual remarks. First Mr. Ferjenčík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to join my predecessor on this matter, because I really think it's very unfortunate that the very sensitive data about patients' health data should be automatically shared and then one could get out of it. I think it's a much more appropriate way to actually go the opt-in route, which means if the patient wants to, he'll get involved in the system. It makes a lot more sense in relation to the functioning of the system, in relation to the real use of the system to really help. I feel like the Ministry is trying to force doctors to use it to take responsibility for it if they don't use it. I think it's a better way to convince doctors and patients that it's useful that it's really worth sharing information about medications so that you can automatically reveal contraindications, and really go the way of explaining and persuasion. This is the path of repression. It'll only lead to some of the people getting out of the health system completely because they won't want other people finding out about them. [[12.40 hours]] It will reduce confidence and, above all, it will not lead to the real use of the system. Maybe it doesn't reveal that doctors don't want the system. Today, if this were introduced by opt-in, as we and ODS suggest, we would know if doctors want to use it on their own, they would find various unevenness of use, we could focus on which doctors it is necessary to explain to which patients. This is how it's gonna go down across the board, then every now and then there's gonna be some big media case, but I'm afraid it's gonna help less. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u47	Thank you. Next, Mrs Procházková, then Mr Válek, is registered with a factual remark. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u48	Thank you for the floor. Only to my two previous speakers. You know, explaining around eRecipes took many years. It was explained to doctors who I don't think are people who aren't intelligent and who wouldn't want to do anything for patients. But it just didn't work out until it was mandatory. Of course, the ideal year was not to sanction the obligation. And this is exactly the same thing. I speak to patients from the ambulance, most of them are very grateful for the eRecept and will be grateful as well - and because I'm driving an ambulance, I know very well that it is good to see the drug record for the patient, not the other way around. And about that little remark from my colleague, Mr Benda, that he doesn't understand why everyone should know that he's not taking his medication. Well, this information is extremely important to us, for example, in that ambulance where you won't be able to talk to us, and we'll know that no medication has been taken, and we have this information, we're working with it. It's obvious in both of my previous speakers that they're not doctors, they're not paramedics, and they speak purely from a patient's point of view. I understand, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u49	Thank you, too. I would like to point out that it is customary to approach colleagues in speaking through the President. Please, Mr Válek, then Mr Běhounek and Mr Benda are signed up with a factual remark. Please, Congressman Válek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to make a point of fact, and then I was ashamed of what the experts here say about the factual points, and so I applied to the proper ones. And now I don't know what stage I'm at.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u51	You are in a factual remark, or you need to cancel it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u52	Well, thank you. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u53	Thank you and now please Mr Běhounek and then Mr Benda with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u54	Mr President, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, nice afternoon. Quite specifically. The discussion is conducted more emotionally and interested in moving it somewhere. The experience of my colleagues and my colleagues in terms of exchange of medical documentation and, above all, cross-border recipes and other things are considerable and the states that have introduced opt-in are very seriously considering its abolition because it does not work. Finland is a very specific example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u55	Thank you, thank you for your time too, and please, with Mr Benda's factual comment, then in the general debate, Mr Válek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u56	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond by your means to the Honorable Fellow Věra Procházková. Well, yes, of course it's okay for the paramedics to talk about it, but those patients are supposed to talk about it, too. And we're talking here for those patients who feel like they might not have to know some things about them, especially if they feel healthy, that he should convince them that he wants to lead them and they should be personally convinced about it, and not that you're automatically signing me up and I have to check out. But that's just a conceptual point. I understand that the paramedics, and especially you, as a person who's been doing paramedics his whole life, and he's been taking care of the people who bring him in there and are unconscious that you're looking at it a little differently than we've probably never seen anyone unconscious in our lives, I understand that, but I still think that's why the House is so elected, that it has 200 people, that both the poles and both the opinions must be represented there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u57	Thank you. And now for the general debate, Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u58	Thank you, Mr President, so now I can go straight. Then both of those ways are good for me if it's easy to log in or easy to log out. If it's complicated to log in, the opt-in system sucks because no one can log in. And opt-out is good, but it will be very difficult to check out. If it's easy to log in, the opt-in system for me is about education and convincing patients how great it is for them to log in, and the opt-out system is about patient associations to lobby between patients and explain to them that it's stupid for them to be in that system to check out. So, with all due respect to my colleagues, I feel like I'm also a patient, and every year more and more patients, and less and less doctors. So now I'm 70 percent of the patient and 30 percent of the doctor. So from this point of view, I don't really care what my attending doctor knows about me, because I'm gonna tell him everything anyway, and the more he knows, the less he asks and the more he finds in the documentation. Personally, as a doctor, I'm against opt-out because it forces me to look for more information in that system that I won't have to look for, and I'm gonna frame the patient, and either the patient tells me, and if he doesn't tell me, his fault and his bad luck. I see it as a radiologist in the case of the application of contrast agents, when the patient gets information that he is allergic to contrast substances, basically cannot. First, he doesn't know what a contrasting substance is, and mostly he doesn't know what an allergy is, and when I tell him it's with the iodine, he remembers that he's been wiped and stained, so he's allergic. He'll say he's allergic, I don't have to contrast him, so I'll simplify his performance, I'll get a better paycheck from the insurance company, and we're all satisfied because the description takes a dramatically shorter time. The only one who gets sharp is the patient because he has a native examination. If I have a system where I can find out from the system that this allergy was really serious, I'm not gonna give him the contrast cloth, I'm gonna pull it down to the floor, I'm gonna do an MRI, I'm gonna tell him, eventually, and it wasn't after I sprayed the iodine. I know it goes in the opt-in system. Personally, I don't think we're going to vote together in the top, because of course that opinion is also a certain left-right attitude, whether the state should sort of decide for the patient, or vice versa, whether people are legal enough to decide for themselves, but I still, as a patient, as a doctor, as an MP, see the quantum of patients who are unconscious driving fast, the quantum of patients to whom they drive fast and where information from the system, any minor information from the system that I learn about them, will save the patient's life. That's why I'm going to vote in favour of the opt-out system, i.e. mandatory registration - if that's the right one? - for the simple reason that I would hate to take on my conscience, even though I feel extremely conservative and right-wing, that someone could survive because information about his medications could be in the system. I don't want that on my conscience. I think it's a big chance, which is useful, which is good, and I'm aware that I'm doing something that is completely against my political belief that I'm manipulating people with state instruments. Therefore, in conclusion, I appeal again to the Minister as on the Health Committee, whether the way of unsubscribing is as simple as possible, whether it is not just through some CzechPoints or some, I do not know what, whether it is not a notarized letter, for which I will still have to, but whether a simple request from a doctor is sufficient, whether something that is terribly simple is enough. [[occur]] Most people can't work with the Internet, those who are really old, sick and who have their problems will not go to CzechPoint. That mail really doesn't work as well as some of us think. Notaries aren't as much as we'd like the approval to be easy. If the checkout is simple, easy, a lot of people check out in the first wave, the devil took it. Then it's time for persuasion. But me, even if it's not easy, I'm going to vote for the system anyway, because even one life saved is worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u59	Thank you, too. That was the last written application to the general debate at the moment. I do not register any factual remarks or applications from the point of view, so I conclude a general debate and ask whether there is interest from the appellant or rapporteurs on the final words after the general debate. If this is not the case, there have been no proposals which should now be voted on, so I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Eight Members are enrolled in a detailed debate, as the first Mrs Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just make a very quick statement in the detailed debate on proposals 2803 and 2805, which I explained in the general debate. This is, on the one hand, a change in the effectiveness of the proposal, because the one that is given is already completely irrelevant, as this time has passed. The second proposal concerns mitigation and, on the other hand, clarification or, on the contrary, tightening up the advertising of food supplements, because as the current time is, it is simply not appropriate and comfortable for our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u61	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Farhan for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u62	Thank you. I would like to sign up here for my amendment, inserted under number 2804. I have justified it in the general debate and it is justified in detail in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u63	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Profant. Mr. Nacher will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u64	I would like to sign up for the amendment, House document 2595. I'll just point out that there's a written explanatory note with him. I guess that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u65	Thank you, that's enough. Please, Mr Nacher, a Member of the Pávek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u66	As has already been said, I therefore apply as co-president to print 2805, which was explained here by my colleague Adámková, then, of course, to the amendment to mail order sales of prescription drugs, which is number 2385, which I explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u67	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Pávek, the MP will be ready to Vymazal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u68	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to subscribe to my amendment abolishing market shares and committing distributors and manufacturers to the supply of medicines within two days. It is included in the explanatory memorandum under print 2709. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u69	Please, Mr Tomáš Vymazal, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the amendment under the number of House document 2811 and 2812. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u71	Thank you. Please, Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Pawlas will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u72	Good afternoon again. As I have already announced, I would like to sign up for an amendment under the number of House document 2801, which concerns the opt-out exemption for some groups of patients. Further justification: I refer to the relevant House document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u73	Thank you. And I beg you, Mr Pawlas, who is the last to be registered in writing in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u74	Mr President, I would like to sign up for my written amendment, press number 302, which is registered as House document 2818, and it is a counterproposal for the proposal made here by Mr Pávek, and deals with protected distribution channels. It is House document 2818 and is more or less the entire press in the system, and I present it as a specific, I would say, correct and recommending counterproposal against colleague Pávek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-005-016.u75	Thank you, too. This is the last written application for a detailed debate at the moment. We don't have any actual applications or I don't see anyone else from the scene, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is an interest in the final words of the appellant or one of the rapporteurs. If this is not the case, I note that there have been no proposals which we should now vote on, and I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. I thank all those who have taken part in the debate. Next up, there's a point number.
