ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 62/2003 Coll., on elections to the European Parliament and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 336/ - second reading I have a resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic on the mandate of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek to justify this bill instead of Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior at the 39th meeting. I will therefore ask Mr Lubomír Zaorálek to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask that Mr Jiří Strýček, who I already see, take his place as rapporteur at the rapporteur's table. I can therefore now give the floor to the Minister of Culture, who is responsible for the opening word for this press 336. I'll ask the House for some peace. [[Almost no response.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to discuss something other than the European Parliament elections law, it is crucially in the foyer. The Minister of Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So, present, let me remind you of the government bill, we're at second reading. This is a government proposal, it's available to you as a print 336. He went through the first reading in June of this year. It shall serve for the national implementation of the amendment to the European Act on the Election of Members of the European Parliament of 13 July 2018. This Act establishes a duty for Member States to take the necessary penalty measures to ensure that no one can vote more than once in the same elections to the European Parliament. Following this principle, which must not be violated, the Czech Act on Elections to the European Parliament now sets out the relevant offence, so if someone does so by voting twice in the elections, it will be possible to impose a fine of up to CZK 10,000. Other changes contained in the proposal are only legislative technical modifications, which primarily reflect the introduction of the offence into the relevant passages of the law. As far as I know, the proposal was discussed by the constitutionally-legal committee and the amendment was tabled. The amendment is in line with the recently approved amendment to the Act on the Collection of Laws and the Collection of International Treaties to postpone the date of entry into force to 1 January 2021. I know that the Ministry of the Interior agrees with this amendment, so it seems to me that the situation is fairly clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u3	I thank the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. And I will ask the rapporteur when I say that at first reading we ordered this press to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 336/1. I will now ask the rapporteur to take the floor. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to supplement the Minister of Culture. In essence, the submitted government proposal implements into the electoral law a requirement for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions in cases of double voting in elections to the European Parliament, with the introduction of sanctions up to 5,000 for attempting double entry in electoral records and up to 10,000 for double voting. I personally think that this is well-adjusted for us, that this situation cannot occur here, but this proposed sanction is intended to discourage voters from voting twice in cases where a voter has dual citizenship and is automatically listed in the electorate lists of both Member States. First of all. And secondly, there may be an error on the part of the electoral authorities when registering in the electoral lists. This government bill was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee at its 50th meeting on 31 October 2019 and adopted the following resolution: Following the justification of the Deputy Minister of Interior for the management of the legislative, state administration and territorial self-government section of Mr Petr Mlsna and the report by Mr . Jiří Strýček and after the debate of the Constitutional Legal Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal; II. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt this amendment and supplement to this bill: Article 2 including the title: Efficiency. This Act shall take effect on 1 January 2021; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the examination of this draft law at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a debate in which I have so far signed up with the priority right of Vice-President Okamura and Vice-President Pikal. The first will be the words of Vice-President Okamura. Before the table comes, I state the apology of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková from 17.30 to the end of the meeting day and Mr Martin Kupka from 16.00 to 17.15. Now Vice-President Tomio Okamura in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here another government bill which basically weakens the Czech Republic in favour of the European Union. The SPD movement disagrees with this proposal and will vote against it. I do not have any comments on the techniques that the amendment regulates, but I am interested in a explanatory report which mentions remarkable changes in the Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament. Every citizen of the European Union has the right to vote and to be elected in elections to the European Parliament in the Czech Republic if he has a temporary or permanent residence here for at least 45 days. That is very unfair, because in the course of direct elections, their representatives should be elected by the citizens of individual countries. The aim, at least formally declared, was once for individual countries to have a vote in the Euro Parliament and at least a formal one, if not a factual possibility of defending the interests of the mother country. As we know, the Treaty of Lisbon has banned the defence of the interest of the mother country to the Euro Commissioner, so that the talk that we, the Czech Republic, have had is de facto foolishness in the European Commission and contradicts both the applicable legislation and, after all, practice, because the truth is that our alleged representatives never really defended the interests of the Republic, and therefore did not violate the Treaty of Lisbon. More changes are on the way at the moment. The Brussels people are also about to nationalise a representative of the European Parliament - and that is what we are talking about - first of all, that everyone can vote basically anywhere, so the principle of representing the interests of the citizens of a particular state will disappear from the real election, because the representative of the state does not vote exclusively for the citizens of that state, but for anyone who reports a form of residence there. Brussels is consistent in the salami method. And since Members are still formally elected in individual countries, formally representatives of the Czech Republic want to change this too. On 11 November 2015, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the reform of the European Union's electoral law, namely resolution 2015/2035, in which it proposed amendments to acts on the election of representatives in the European Parliament. This proposal was subsequently forwarded to the Council of the EU, which, by decision of 13 July 2018, amended the Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament in general and direct elections. And that's what I'd like to talk about here and what doesn't sound like it at all, and it seems to me that there's something going on here that maybe many other parties don't even realize what we're actually discussing here. The Council's decision regulates a total of eight articles on which Member States have found unanimous - I stress unanimous - agreement, so the government of the ANO movement also supported this with its coalition partners. I am specifically concerned with the following provisions. It is Article 1 which amends the current Article 1 so that Members of the European Parliament are in response to the Treaty of Lisbon and in accordance with Article 14 (1) of the Treaty of Lisbon. Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on European Union has been newly introduced as representatives of the citizens of the European Union. So once again, I would like to mention what is being advocated here - that MEPs will no longer be specifically representatives of national countries, but they will be representatives of citizens of the European Union. And this globalization policy, this salami method of the SPD movement, is strongly rejected and we will not support these proposals. So both practically and in fact Brussels, under the approval of our government, and it is the government of the ANO, the CSSD and the KSČM movement, which surprises me especially in the case of communists who, I did not even know, support Brussels policy to this extent, so, with the approval of this government, they essentially agreed to further weakening the national states in the European Union. MEPs in the European Parliament will no longer be representatives of their countries, but representatives of citizens of the whole Union, which is totally unacceptable for us in the SPD, as a patriotic party and a party defending national interests. I know that in practice, of course, most parties in the European Parliament do not defend the interests of Czech citizens and are in supranational factions that directly deny the rights and interests of national states and their citizens. And it doesn't matter whether it's an YES, a CSSD or an ODS or a People's Party. In our SPD, it's the other way around. Our MEPs are members of the patriotic faction Identity and Democracy - ID. This is good to know, because in the Czech Republic politicians are talking about defending national interests, but the Brussels caravan towards renationalization and the abolition of national states goes on to agree with all who have the power to decide, including representatives of the Czech Republic. Shame on them! [[16.50 hours]] Our ancestors fought for this republic, for its sovereignty for millennia, died, were imprisoned and tortured. They spit on their victims and their work through their actions in Brussels by the parties who will vote in favour of these proposals. It's disgusting to betray your country, and even more disgusting is the hypocrisy with which you lead this country's government. And I say again that it really is not for the SPD, even if we were to be the only party here to vote against, and so far it seems that way, or I guess it will turn out the way I see it, we simply cannot accept the rhetoric of moving the salami method that MEPs are not representatives of national states, but they are representatives of all citizens of the European Union. This simply cannot be shifted in this globalization direction and denationalization direction. That's the way to hell. So the SPD will in no way support this government bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u7	Thank you to Vice-President Tomie Okamur. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal in the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u8	Thank you. Now a little bit more to the point of this bill. As has already been said, this bill results from the implementation of an act, and the act does not merely mean that it introduces the new offence. This act also does another thing that it is compulsory to implement, and that is a five per cent clause in some states of the Union, namely those where at least 31 MEPs are elected in one territory. This concerns Germany and Spain. So there is a new obligation in the framework of some agreement between the major parties of the European Union, which aims to strengthen some of the parties that are losing their way. We do not agree with this principle. I really don't think it's appropriate to introduce a 5% clause. A lot of states have far lower clauses. Five percent is rather exceptional in European elections. Most states have no clause, or the largest group of states has no clause. A lot of states have the natural one, like Cyprus, which is 1.8 percent, or Italy and Sweden, which are 4 percent. So I see no reason to introduce this mandatory clause. I think it's wrong. After all, we as pirát have long been opposed to these unnatural barriers for political parties to enter political life. I think there really is no reason for this in the European Parliament, because that clause at national level will not ensure that those parties in the European Parliament, those factions that are there and are quite large, arise or perish, because at national level you will never make enough MEPs to form a faction. So the clause is just nonsense. That is why I am proposing two amendments on this issue, one which proposes that we at home reduce the clause for entry into the European Parliament from 5% to 3%. It's purely because we've always pushed for this. The 3% clause is close to the natural clause, which corresponds to the fact that if you get a sufficient number of votes to have 3% of the vote, that's enough, that's about one mandate, so it's time to get that one mandate. There is no point in getting more votes when your number of votes corresponds to one mandate. In the same way, Czech Members join some larger factions in the European Parliament, and no party will do one single faction on its own. So there's no reason to build this artificial barrier. Of course, the barrier is not insurmountable to us, but there are other parties that could certainly appreciate it. I think that the debate about some alignment of electoral systems so that they are really proportional is back on the table. So that's one of those suggestions. The second proposal then concerns the act itself, when we present the accompanying resolution, where the Chamber of Deputies will express its opposition to Council Decision 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 as a whole, even though we are implementing some of the resolutions, because, of course, we have nothing against those changes that we are implementing in our national legislation, that is meaningful, that is appropriate. But this mandatory setting of higher clauses from above in some states is truly inappropriate. We don't have time for Europe to interfere like this. After all, a lot of states have majority systems. A lot of states have some regional ways of voting, preferential voting, and so on. And we do not find it appropriate that, in several selected cases, where more than one member is elected, it is necessary to have a 5% clause. So that's the second amendment. I will get to it in more detail in a detailed debate. And now, on another issue that I consider important here, because this Council act is not only committed, it has not only mandatory parts, but it also has some recommended parts, and these have not been included in the amendment, although it is clearly recommended in those recommended parts that states should ensure their citizens the possibility of a priority vote, a correspondence vote, and possibly an electronic vote. And that is a thing that is lacking in our country, even though the vast majority of the European Union countries have some form of distance vote. Most countries have a vote by post, some and even more countries have at least the option of voting for their citizens abroad in the embassy. I therefore propose two amendments quite comprehensive; they are a legislative text longer than the bill itself, without any detailed justification, which you can, of course, find in the system. So these are two amendments that propose a correspondence choice for our citizens abroad, or at least the possibility of a presidential election at the embassies in the European elections for our citizens abroad. Because now the situation is really such that our citizens are at a disadvantage against other citizens of the European Union who can vote in embassy or post, or even electronically, while our citizens are unlucky. This seems completely absurd to me in the case of the vote in the embassy, because at least that is what we allow in the case of parliamentary or presidential elections, but in the case of national elections such as European elections, we do not allow citizens to vote in the embassy. And that really doesn't seem appropriate. Today I have returned from a foreign trip where we have just met representatives of Czech communities abroad in those countries where, for example, voting by mail is a common matter such as Australia. One of those things that they told us would help them, and I think it's easy to solve, unlike some social measures about counting the time worked out in states where we don't have a contract and all that, that's the choice. Those citizens are interested in what's going on at home. And if we want them to maintain their relationship with the Czech Republic, so that they may ever return with the foreign experience they have, and bring it home, we should go across the street and at least allow them to take a correspondence vote or a vote in the embassy. So that's what it's for. In more detail on the two proposals - it is a rather extensive legislative text. We were inspired, virtually. I had it written down, but then I had to rewrite it because there was this legislative proposal in a commentary procedure from the Ministry of the Interior for a general election adjustment, where there is a proposal for correspondence voting abroad, so that's where we rewritten. So it's done the same way it's done in the Interior Ministry's proposal. That means it's a two-pack system, it's just a choice abroad. Only citizens who apply for election documentation in those countries where possible will receive election documentation, add their own ballot, cover it properly in two envelopes and send it back to the embassy. It's nothing the embassy can't handle, as the Ambassador has said to me, a thousand envelopes a day have been made in the past, there's no reason they can't handle a few tens a month now. [[17,00 hours]] So much for this in general, and then I'll go back to the proposals in more detail. So there are two groups of proposals from me. One is the proposal to solve a mandatory 5% electoral clause, which is unnecessarily discriminatory to the smaller parties and actually bends the electoral system from the direct proportional election, as it should be, in something less proportional. And the other proposals concern our citizens abroad who have a relationship with the Czech Republic, they have a relationship with the European Union, they are, after all, world citizens, and I think that they should have the right to vote in European elections, just as the citizens of other European countries do. It is very difficult for those citizens to participate otherwise because they would actually have to travel thousands of kilometres to the Czech Republic. First, to sort things out here, if necessary, about their permanent residence, and find out which precinct they're actually voting in this time. And then the second time, so they can vote. This really is not something we could reasonably ask them to do. And even if we were to introduce an embassy choice, I would like to stand up for correspondence elections, where there are countries abroad, when correspondence choices normally work, there is a deep experience with this, and there is no reason for us not to be able to do it. Those citizens are often used to it from their foreign backgrounds. And if they vote in the embassy, they'll have to travel thousands of kilometers twice or three times, first to get their votes on the electoral list, and second to carry out the election act itself. It just means hours on the plane, thousands of miles of travel. This, in turn, is not openness and accessibility to the choice that our citizen should cultivate in today's 21st century. The choice by post is no new, it's a 19th-century thing. Please, let's move on in this at least to the 19th century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. This was the last application for a detailed debate. No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? I have been informed by the previous management meeting that this is a detailed debate. [[Vice-President Pikal informs outside the microphone that he was speaking in a general debate.]] Vice-President, but you can apply if you want. You volunteered, I haven't finished the debate in detail yet, so you can come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm gonna check it out on the tape screen later, see if I'm that tired or what's going on. However, I should like to apply in detail to these individual amendments. First of all, it is House document 3594, which is a reduction in the electoral clause from 5 percent to 3 percent in the European elections in the Czech Republic. As I was saying, it's actually under this natural clause that's somewhere between 3.1 and 3.4 percent. It's really a minor change when number 5 is replaced by number 3. And it is basically that the electoral system is not proportional to the European Parliament in the Czech Republic unnecessarily discriminatory to the smaller parties, so that the electoral competition is simply equal and proportional as it should be. There is no reason for us to have a 5% clause here, because there is no government at European level, and it is no longer based on the representation of Czech MEPs there. So there is no reason to put this artificial obstacle to the entry of political parties into the European Parliament. So this is an amendment that you will find under House document 3594. Next, there is an accompanying resolution, which, according to the custom, is being read as an amendment, or it is House document 3595 and it is an accompanying resolution, when the House should agree that, because of the introduction of a mandatory closing clause for some Member States, the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with Council Decision 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 as a whole, even if it implements certain provisions of this Decision. This is the case where we have no choice but to say that we don't agree with those articles that we don't have to implement. Because there's just no other way to express disapproval in this trial. That is why I have decided on this special method of accompanying the resolution. I trust you'll understand. And as I say, once again it is something that the European Union, virtually. larger European parties create unnecessary barriers to maintaining their majority, which are collapsing in the same way. So I think it's a useless fight against something that's not needed. Once again, I will refer here to the fact that the choice for the European Parliament should be proportional, to be direct, to best copy the distribution of views in European society so that citizens are represented as best as possible by the people they really want to choose. And then there is the proposal, House document 3621, which is an amendment which introduces correspondence and representation choices abroad. This means, firstly, the possibility of our citizens to vote in the European elections in the embassy, because they cannot do this now, although this is a relatively common matter. Secondly, so that they can vote in correspondence abroad. Thus, those Czech citizens who have a long-term abroad stay so that they can vote in correspondence in the European elections. As I was saying, the difficulty of this election abroad is often very difficult, it is really hours on the plane and thousands of kilometres of travel, considerable costs, and often you have to go to the office twice or three times. So a correspondence choice, where there is really no huge kidnapping or change in electoral results, but it's just some handshake to our citizens abroad, that we don't forget them and that we would like to have them come back to us sometime, because this country doesn't fall behind and it doesn't fall behind, for example. for other European countries that allow their citizens to make a correspondence choice. And then there is - so it was the House document 3621, correspondence and presentation elections abroad. And then there's House Document 3622, which is just a presidential election abroad, i.e. only the possibility of voting in the embassy. This is a proven method used in the election of the President or in elections to the Chamber of Deputies abroad. In addition, there are no complications with which regions the votes will be added. We just have one constituency, so there's no complicated reason why there couldn't be an election in the embassy just like it does in the Chamber of Deputies. At least this minimum to balance the votes of our citizens abroad against the votes of the citizens of other European countries abroad, I think we could do that. So they were all amendments. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, thank you to the Minister and I will meet you at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u11	Thank you. I think that's how we dealt with the confusion that came about here. And once again, I remind you that we are at the end of a detailed debate, and I ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. It does not, so I conclude the detailed debate and ask if there is interest in final words. He has neither the Minister nor the rapporteur. The Minister does, after all. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u12	Thank you. I just originally put forward a proposal here, which seemed simple to me, in which I suggested that measures be taken to prevent someone from voting twice in the European elections, and that when someone breaks it, there be appropriate sanctions. So what was going on here, I don't dare to judge the comments, it's probably going to be a constitutionally-legal committee or somebody to assess whether it's floating here, if it's stickers, etc. So I think they're going to assess whether it's possible to add that to what I suggested. I'm not sure about that. And for what the MP or Vice-President Okamura has said here, I would just make a brief remark. I simply do not think that working in the institutions of the European institutions is linked to the denationalisation of those politicians who are there, because I have been in the European Council of Foreign Ministers many times, now I have the opportunity to act on the European Council of Ministers of Culture, and I do not go there to nationalize. I believe that when a person sits there today, on the one hand, in the case of culture, it is now the sovereign area of each state, i.e. compared to foreign policy, every state has the opportunity to do its own policy; there is no European policy in this. And the second thing that's even more important. I'd like to remind you that when you go there, you go there because I'm convinced it's the interest of the state. And who doesn't think so, I would like to remind him of Czechoslovakia in 1938, or even better Edvard Beneš in 1938, who rode, polished the handles and no one talked to him because there were no such institutions at the time. I would just like to remind you of the solitude of Czechoslovakia in 1938, when there was no such table at which we could talk with the key countries of Europe. And I would like to remind you, colleagues, that in 30 years the foreign policy situation in the world has deteriorated considerably. I repeat, when I compare the situation 30 years ago and today, the foreign policy situation has deteriorated considerably. This means the possibility of being part of European institutions today, where we have the opportunity to create completely different conditions for defending the interests of the state than it was in 1938, is a big thing for me. Perhaps our chances today, and that is why I think that we should not describe European institutions here as denationalizing institutions, but institutions where we have a chance of standing up to the future. And this is how I think we should understand them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-004-008.u13	Thank you, Minister. That was the final word, and since there was no proposal that we should vote on, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. I will introduce you to the apologies that have come in the course of this proposal. Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík apologizes for the session of the Chamber of Deputies from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Kateřina Valachová also apologises from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. Now we're going to look at point number
