ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u1	42. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 250/ - first reading We have the Government's position at our disposal as the House Press 250/1. On the Senate's authority, Senator Jitka Seitlová, who I welcome, will present the proposal. And I beg the senator to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u2	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to come before you with a proposal for an amendment to the Senate law on energy law. It is a rather short amendment, but it is expected and very urgent for a number of citizens of our country. The aim of the amendment is to remove the unfairly established obligations of property owners for which the material burden of the elements of distribution electricity networks has been established, to cover the costs of the necessary transpositions. The obligation to cover costs concerns not only citizens and legal persons, but also municipalities, because of other public interests. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] According to current legislation, entrepreneurs in electricity are entitled to place equipment in real estate owned by other persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u3	I'm sorry, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's create a dignified atmosphere so we can hear what the senator has to say. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u4	I will try briefly, but it is my duty, a kind duty, to let you know what the content of the amendment is. I beg your patience. I'll keep going. Those who place the elements of distribution networks on other persons' real estate have the right to impose material burdens. If there is no agreement, then they have the right even to expropriate this material burden. The compensation for the establishment of a material burden is usually one-off and reaches the amounts of hundreds, up to a maximum of several thousand crowns. During the effectiveness of the older legislation of the past, such as the so-called electricity law, there was a material burden almost without compensation. However, there are situations where the property owner, usually the house, needs to repair the house or property in some way, or even under the construction law, has an obligation to make some adjustments, or even to tear down this property, demolition of this building. At that point, however, it is still true that all costs for the translation of the distribution network element are borne by the owner of the property. The amounts are really high. They move in order in higher amounts of tens of thousands. I have information from recent times, when people are looking at me, they often reach up to CZK 200,000. The owner for the material burden that he had to bear received hundreds - sometimes nothing at all - of crowns, and now, if he wants to tear down the building, or even has an obligation to tear it down, he has to pay such huge amounts. These situations are in practice, believe me, often even existential, they hit the citizens very hard and they see it as very unfair. The aim of the amendment presented is to provide for an exemption from the existing rules on the reimbursement of the costs of the translation by the applicant in cases where it is manifestly not fair to require it. Clearly fair to demand is the wording of the proposal that lies before you. This is a situation where the property is damaged by the applicant's property and the owner of this distribution element does not provide a remedy, or where the need for the equipment results from an obligation ordered by the property owner by the construction law, i.e. demolition or some kind of modification. The subject of discussions and other initiatives that I received when the Senate began to discuss this law was also complaints about the high costs charged by electricity entrepreneurs for their own transfer. Only specialised companies that are always contracted by the one who operates the translator and the entire device can carry out the translation. That is why we have also included in this amendment an obligation for the person to pay the costs to be informed in advance of the budgetary, flat - determination of what he is to pay for. And then, of course, the sanctions, which are added to this amendment, are also focused on that. The last thing that comes from all the new responsibilities. It is proposed that the Energy Regulatory Authority should decide in cases of dispute. The Senate began to discuss this amendment at the beginning of last February and ended its negotiations after two readings and a number of comments, negotiations with the Chamber of Economics, with ministries at the end of July. This proposal was submitted to the House on 1 August and the government gave a neutral opinion on it at the end of August last year. The government agrees, like everyone we have had the opportunity to deal with, that the current situation is unfair and that it should be dealt with. At the same time, it pointed out some inaccuracies, say, or some other additions that would still require the amendment. If you would be so kind as to refer this proposal to the committee, these will certainly be discussed and we will discuss how what the government is objecting or pointing out should be further adjusted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u5	Thank you, Senator. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský. I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the content of the Senate bill tabled, which amends the Act on the terms and conditions of business and on the exercise of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. As the Senator has already said here, the aim of the bill is to provide for an exception to the existing rule, which has been in force since 2000, when the Energy Act was approved, that the costs of translating the electrical, transmission or distribution system equipment are borne by the translator. Two situations are newly introduced where the costs of carrying out the transfer are borne by the owner of the facility: firstly, if due to the poor technical condition of the installation, the damage to the property is caused and the owner of the facility does not recover, and secondly, when the transfer is necessary for the purposes of the modification or removal of the construction. Following this, the power of the Energy Regulatory Authority to decide disputes concerning the costs of the transfer and their reimbursement is also introduced and the right of the applicant to receive the transfer budget is added to the penalty. The Senate translated the draft law to the House on 31 July 2018 and 30 August 2018 we received the Government's opinion, which was neutral at the time. I agree that it is certainly appropriate to remove the situation where in some cases it is unfair to demand the reimbursement of the costs of the property owner, but on the other hand, some of the wordings in the proposal are not unambiguous and could in practice bring interpretation difficulties. A government amendment to the Energy Act is currently being prepared, which addresses this issue comprehensively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. No one is enrolled in the general debate, nor do I see anyone reporting. I'm done with the conversation. Is there interest in final words? Not interested. [[Senator Seitlo indicates interest.]] It is. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u8	Thank you for the report. And let me just add to the futures that have now appeared from the perspective of the proposed amendment to the Energy Act that the government is preparing. I have to say, the proposal is in eKLEP so far, it has not yet been submitted to the government. And I've been discussing the novel that lies before you, many months at the Ministry. People write to me and expect us to move forward to resolve the situation. It is possible, therefore, if the amendment that the government is preparing is passed on to the House, then the Senate proposal and the government amendment that would come together, of course. So I'm asking for her to be transferred to the committee and, if possible, to discuss it calmly with the energy amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-003-042.u9	Thank you. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee committee? He's not suggesting. So we will proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 102, registered by 168 Members, for 150, against no one. We have ordered the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another Committee. Does anyone now have a proposal to order another committee? It's not like that. So I'm saying that the proposal was directed only to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I thank the Senator, the rapporteur, for ending the first reading of this point. Initiating item number
