ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 580/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, I will continue to use only a shortcut tax rules, as amended, and other related laws. The proposed bill is, among other things and in particular, the implementation of the legislative implementation of the My Tax project, or modern and simple tax, whose implementation, along with the promotion of simplification and electronisation of the tax system and general public administration, is one of the points of the government's programming declaration. The weight of the bill is an extensive amendment to the tax code, which is a general regulation for tax administration. The amendment focuses mainly on four basic topics. The first is the promotion of electronicisation, which aims to simplify administration in communication with the tax administrator and positively motivate the use of electronic resources, i.e. to go in this area not through sanctions, but through benefits. The draft law contains the incorporation of legislative assumptions for the modernisation of the portal Financial and Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, especially in the new concept of tax information box, which now exists in the information system ADIS for the summer. This will allow tax entities, inter alia, to obtain more information via the Internet and to make pre-filled electronic submissions, in particular after tax returns. However, the establishment of a tax information box and the scope of the services offered will depend on the technical amenities of specific tax administrators. As a result, a gradual start of newly provided services will be possible. In the field of electronisation, the proposal also brings, for example, an extension of the deadline for filing a tax return on income tax by one month in the case of submission electronically. So we motivate those entities that are not yet legally obliged to submit tax returns electronically today, which is a topic with which colleagues from the Czech Pirate Party came up and which I promised to include in the government of the presented complex material. In connection with this, we will also find a shorter deadline for the refund of the overpayment in the case of electronically submitted applications, a waiver from the obligation to submit forms electronically for those who voluntarily set up data boxes or a reduction in the penalty for non-compliance with the electronic form of submission by half. The second topic - this is the first topic - which relates to this amendment is simplification of control procedures, where a correspondence form of communication under tax control will also be admitted, which will give greater flexibility according to the preferences of the tax entity and the circumstances of the particular case, while avoiding any obstructions. There will also be a reduction in the individual stages of the tax control depending on whether it ends without a finding or with a finding. The third issue is revision, a comprehensive revision of the penalty system, which should, inter alia, mitigate the effects of certain sanctions, in particular interest, and eliminate certain non-systemic exceptions in this area. This involves, in particular, a reduction in the recovery interest to the level of standard interest on late payment applied in the private sector. The decrease is by 6 percentage points, so if interest is rising to 16 percent today, he is counting according to the Czech National Bank's reply on the first day of the calendar quarter, the decline at this time will be about 10 percent, so 10 percent, which will apply to both interest paid by the tax authority, or interest on late payments, in particular interest paid by the tax administrator. There is also the elimination of non-systemic exemptions in the form of the abolition of the tolerance of four working days of delay with the payment of the tax and the tolerance of five working days for late submission of the tax claim. The negative effects of the abolition of these tolerances are offset by tolerances, in particular by increasing the minimum limits for the imposition of appropriate sanctions. Today we have a minimum limit of 200 crowns, next time it will be 500 crowns, so up to 500 crowns will not count interest at all. The fourth key issue is the introduction by the professional public, the case-law of the long-term demand for the possibility of paying part of the amount of excess deduction claimed on value added tax withheld as a result of the ongoing control procedure. This change will reduce the negative financial impact of this detention, but it will require, and I say this openly, an extension of the time to search for the activities of the tax administrator by 15 days, which will also bring better targeting of the control activity, less unnecessary controls and retained funds, which will, of course, result in further cash flow, money into cash flow companies. From a number of other partial amendments contained in the draft law, an extension of the circle of less invasive ways of implementing the freezing order, in particular the declaration of property or the possibility for natural persons to request a change in the tax identification number in such a way that it does not contain the birth number. The basic effectiveness of the bill is expected on the first day of the second month following its publication in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u3	I am now asking the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u4	Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, Minister, colleagues, the proposed government draft is quite extensive, as can be seen from the opening words of the Minister of Finance and is a set of amendments to a total of eight tax laws, namely Act 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, on Real Estate Tax, on Value Added Tax, on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, on Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, on Gaming Tax, Customs Act and then Act amending certain tax laws. The Minister has already outlined this list here, but I think it is necessary to repeat it here once more in order to realise what scope this print 580, this proposed amendment, has. The proposed changes aim to promote electronisation, simplify control procedures, revise the penalty system and refund the tax deduction. At the same time, the draft contains partial amendments to the legislation which take place on the basis of an evaluation of the needs of application practice, the development of other legislation and the caselaw, as well as on the basis of demand from the professional public. These are, in summary, approximately 130 amendments, a large part of which has already been mentioned by the Minister. Like her, I must stress that the proposed changes are also intended to enable the implementation of the My Tax project, i.e. to simplify control procedures, etc., I've already said it here. It must be said objectively that not all the proposed changes are positively assessed. For example, the Chamber of Commerce criticizes in particular the extension of the time limit for the refund of excess VAT from current 30 to 45 days, construction firms or exporters normally generate high deductions and this extension would mean a short-term cash flow loss in tens of millions of crowns. Some tax experts, in turn, find it problematic to start tax checks by correspondence or abolishing the five-day deadline for filing a tax return without penalty. All these issues, I expect them to be subject to a major debate in the second reading of the Committee on Budgets. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed this press for discussion in the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. I do not think it would be necessary to discuss this press in other expert committees, although, of course, we are not defending the initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying that as rapporteur, I recommend that this press be released for second reading. So much for my news report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Miroslav Kalousek first came forward with priority rights and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be quite brief. The proposal for an amendment to the Tax Code cannot be denied an attempt to modernise the Code in the right direction, no doubt. But as in almost every government material, there are several mines that weaken the position of entrepreneurs, especially small ones. Let me name at least three, which I consider to be the most fundamental. The first is the extension of the VAT refund period from 30 to 45 days. There is no rational reason to do so, apart from the government's efforts to improve the cash flow of the state budget at the expense of cash flow of Czech, Moravian and Silesian entrepreneurs. I find that extremely unfair. When we look at VAT collection, it's not a small volume, it's a volume of, say, 15 to 17 billion crowns a year, and I don't think it really deserves entrepreneurs who pay taxes, produce values, and still have an interest-free lending to the state. I really don't like it. The second is a significant reduction in the interest to be paid by the State to the entrepreneur for an unjustified penalty, e.g. for an unauthorized freezing order, when the 32 percent interest is basically the only instrument to heal at least part of the damage caused by the State by its unlawful conduct. The reduction of more than three times from 32 to 10 per cent is then in a severe contradiction with the third thing which bothers me greatly that, on the contrary, the penalty for defaulting on an entrepreneur increases the draft amendment five times, i.e. The state reduces its own sanctions three times, but sanctions for entrepreneurs increase five times. In addition, the tolerance period for income taxes and real estate taxes is significantly reduced, not only for taxes where the payment is shorter than in one year. That's three things I find unacceptable. These are the three things that, in that relationship, the state - the businessman significantly deflects the possibility of doing so for the benefit of the state and for the detriment of the private entities that feed us with their taxes. I consider this unacceptable and therefore submit a proposal for a revision of the amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u7	So I understand that this is a proposal to return the proposal to the plaintiff to work on, basically. [[Member Kalousek agrees.]] Yes, I'm marked. And now he's getting off... With Mr Jan Hrnčíř's point of fact, but there is only one point of fact, so, Mr Ferjenčík, I think you'll be right in line. So, Mr. Jan Hrnčíř, a point of fact. Please, your two minutes, and Mr. Ferjenčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u8	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the previous speakers and what has been said here. Of course, the tax system brings some positive things, as has already been said here, e.g. an advance on the tax deduction. This amendment, of course, responds to the Constitutional Court's position, where excessive deductions are held whole, if only a part of the dispute is disputed, this is undoubtedly positive. Of course, a reduction in interest on late payments if you pay a tax later. Of course, it's also good that you can change your VAT number if you're a business natural person, that it doesn't have to be a birth number anymore. However, the negatives clearly prevail. As problematic, we see the initiation of tax control by correspondence, i.e. without any cooperation with the tax entity, we do not consider this entirely correct. The so-called removal is also bad. Liberating five-day time limits for late filing of a tax return. Similarly, the extension of the deadline for repayment of the VAT deduction from 30 to 45 days to the detriment of tax entities. And, of course, the reduction in interest in the unauthorized conduct of the tax administrator - these are the hedge orders where the state then had to pay 32 percent of the interest, so it only wants to reduce it to 10, which is in turn to the detriment of tax entities so affected. So we cannot support this amendment to the tax code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u9	So I will now ask for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it extremely unfortunate that the government has joined two fundamentally unrelated things in my opinion, one is the electronisation and digitization of payment and tax administration, and the other is the search for additional revenue from the state budget. In the finals, the proposal serves as one of the biggest increases in the revenue of the state budget for next year, comparable to the tax package, which is now a huge dispute in the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, the one-off increase in the VAT recovery period by 15 days improves the state's cash flow by 16 billion just at the expense of companies. [[15.20 hours]] I find it extremely unfortunate to combine these two things, which means linking tax payments electronically - which I think would be quite consensual in this House, and it is also nice to see in the law on the right to digital service, which is already in the third reading, and all parties agree with it - and in parallel to that, sticking to the improvement of the state budget by 16 billion at the expense of companies. For this reason, I will support the application for repayment. I also think that it is appropriate to consider changes in the penalty regime, where the state reduces its obligation to pay compensation if it makes a mistake in the official procedure, but companies need to be reduced by some deadlines. So we strongly disagree, in principle, with the change in tax retention to companies and we will encourage the recovery, although we welcome the efforts to digitise tax administration, we welcome the inclusion of our proposal to extend the deadline for filing tax returns electronically, and some series of minor partial changes that are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u11	I will now ask for Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Minister, allow me also to join the evaluation of the tax package at the beginning with the Minister's speech. [[The Minister of Finance from the rapporteur's desk points out that this is a tax order.]] Tax policy, I'm sorry, I'm already messed up here last week. From the Minister's speech to the Tax Code, it may seem that everything is beautiful and watered by the sun, but it really is not, because there are several traps for our entrepreneurs and businessmen. In the beginning, before I speak about the traps where I will be very critical, I really want to appreciate a few things on this proposal, some things have already been said here, but one thing I want to appreciate is that the Ministry of Finance finally follows up on the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the unlawful parts of the VAT deductions withheld. I would like to appreciate that the Ministry of Finance here presents a solution to this situation within the framework of the tax system. Unfortunately, this proposal does not contain just this, it contains other matters, so despite my appreciation, it is another law that deflects the tongue of the scales for the benefit of the state at the expense of entrepreneurs and businessmen. It is another standard in a series that contains elements that reduce tolerance for entrepreneurs, tighten and bind the business environment, and the state thus de facto reduces the importance of entrepreneurs and businessmen in society. It is a great pity, because, as I said, the tax system also contains elements that must be appreciated. What we have the biggest problem with, because it is again one change that will make the position of entrepreneurs clearly worse, is the already mentioned extension of the deadline for the refund of excess VAT from 30 days to 45 days. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can imagine what such a thing will do in cash flow not only to small entrepreneurs but also to medium-sized firms, because these companies do not have enough reserves to bridge the next half-month financially. Many of them live from invoice to invoice, and the state thus stands up to them in a stepmotherly way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u13	Let me ask you to calm down so that the Member can speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u14	Let me repeat this for you, because this is really important to businessmen. This proposal is a significant intervention in the business environment. The extension of the deadline for repayment of excess VAT deductions from 30 to 45 days - this will indeed mean a huge intervention in cash flow not only by small businessmen, but also by large companies that do not have reserves to bridge this half-month with their own resources. Entrepreneurs also cannot extend the time limits for what they are to pay to the State because of various requirements to prove anything, or because they have tax control. Businessmen must continue to carry out their work without interruption and must also pay all obligations to the State in due course. I am surprised by the Ministry of Finance's justification for this proposal. When the audit report was introduced, the Ministry of Finance argued, among other things, that it would be easier for the state to pair data for VAT control, which should also lead to the acceleration of the process on the part of the state. The result is today's proposal to extend the deadline from 30 to 45 days for the refund of excess VAT deduction. It's a step against entrepreneurs again. I am terribly sorry, and I am glad that there is a Minister of Industry and Trade here, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is the guarantor of the business environment, has not applied any comment in the commentary procedure on the tax rules and has not applied any comment in particular to this period, and I, Minister, am very sorry because it is a really big intervention in the financial life of companies. And the real reason for the Treasury is budget spells. This measure - the extension of the deadline - should bring CZK 16 billion to the detriment of entrepreneurs next year in 2020 and, of course, some money for the fact that the money will remain on state accounts at all. As has already been said here, it is an interest-free loan from the state at the expense of businessmen. This shows that the Ministry of Finance does not look at any creation of a friendly and stable business environment and the needs of those who meet the state budget by their activities and by paying taxes. On the other hand, they throw themselves at active people and create an increasingly hostile and hostile business environment for them. Practical policy - and we can see it in this tax code, as well as in the tax package, as well as in other laws - is the deepening of inequality by the Ministry of Finance. On the one hand, a businessman who tightens his screws and becomes uncomfortable with the conditions, on the other hand, a state which increases its powers at the expense of entrepreneurs. And I can say here that if this law is not returned to recast, we will come up with an amendment and we will have the ambition to return the deadline for repayment of the tax deduction back to 30 days. The second point, which contains this tax code, is also the aforementioned abolition of the five-day tolerance period, which now allows entrepreneurs to file a return with impunity with a five-day delay on income tax or real estate tax, and without risk of a penalty to be delayed by a few days with payment of tax. I am glad that, at least on the basis of a commentary procedure, the Ministry of Finance has come up with a change in the payment of interest for delays in tax zones on the basis of this tolerance period, but this does not concern calls, fines and other acts, so it is again tightening up for entrepreneurs. The third point, which has already been mentioned here, which we also do not like very much, is a significant reduction in interest on the unauthorised procedure of the tax administrator, such as the administration of those hedge orders. In the case of interest for bad decisions on the part of the State, this is the only effective instrument for compensation. And from my point of view, it may be a response to more and more lawsuits that the Financial Administration has been losing lately, like on a running belt. [[There is a strong noise and very poor audibility in the hall!]] Instead of considering whether the Financial Administration is proceeding sensibly, fairly, it wants to reduce the cost of the State to its faulty decisions instead. If these interest rates are reduced, it will only lead to a minor fear of the Financial Administration and the Financial Administration's staff from their own misconduct. I dare to quote for a very short time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u15	I'd like to ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u16	I would like to quote very briefly, for example, the comments of the Chamber of Tax Advisors. I quote: The proposed amendment to the penalty system basically erases the compensation for the error of the tax administrator's procedures in the imposition and assessment of the tax and in its possible unlawful recovery. In the situations described, the tax administrator, even with large restrictions, will pay the tax entity only the price of money. Such a solution is unacceptable as it brings significant unjustified inequality into the tax proceedings. [[15.30 hours]] And I add that it is precisely the proposal of the tax order, the wordings it uses in those paragraphs that it is already trying to alibisively emerge from the wrong decision, and this can lead, for example, to the wording of the type: if new facts or evidence were subsequently revealed, which could not have been applied in the proceedings before without the fault of the tax administrator, and could have had a significant impact on that determination. So, in advance, the Financial Administration and the Treasury are acting out of some bad decisions. Furthermore, there is a fine of up to CZK 50,000 for the fact that someone could have thwarted the tax administration by failing to correct the tax return. It's a very vague formulation again. What is it, he could have thwarted the tax administration? This wording makes it possible for entrepreneurs to be more fined by the Financial Administration, in fact, only by the way that particular official sleeps. Even sanctions should have some rules. Dislodgement and general phrases will only result in their abuse and overuse, and especially in the current situation where we know the current not-so-friendly practice of the Financial Administration. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why we will support the motion to return the tax order to recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u17	I will now ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech - the last one entered into the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u18	Thank you very much. I will be very short, but it must be said that this is another law from the Ministry of Finance workshop, which is hostile to entrepreneurs and the business environment in the Czech Republic. This is becoming a custom, as with the tax package, where the Minister emphasizes the positive aspects that may have some media positive points, but he no longer conceals the others that she has attached to it and which are no longer so positive. So, on the one hand, there is an attempt to electronize taxes and tax proceedings, pay taxes, make it easier, but on the other hand, for example, there is an extension of the time limit for the refund of excess VAT from 30 days to 45 days. This is a thing that, of course, hits the cash flow of small and medium-sized companies. The state actually wants to keep money that does not belong to the state, so it will keep it in its accounts for a longer period of time, and it will pay the entrepreneurs who will have to have other reserves, other liquidity to make them work. In particular, I do not understand the extension of the time limit for the refund of excess VAT. I don't understand it at all, especially in a situation where we have some time of control reports that have been approved for less cheating on value added tax. I thought, and we criticized it, we didn't believe the measure, but I thought that since the government had already pushed it through, it was an argument that, perhaps, the time limit for returning the excess deduction would be shorter. Because what logic does it have when the State acquires a clear instrument to cheat less with VAT to have more control, and on the other hand comes with an extension of the deadline to refund the excess VAT deduction? It just doesn't make sense, the logic should be reversed. After all, last week, when we were talking about the tax package here, we were discussing the Doing Business ranking with the Treasury Secretary. It is precisely the time limit for the Financial Administration to retain this money that was one of the reasons why we have been offended in the area of paying taxes within that ranking, which monitors the quality of the business environment in the Czech Republic, that is, in the area of paying taxes, we are only 54th place, i.e. below our overall position in terms of the quality of the business environment. And the deterioration compared to last year in the Doing Business ranking was due to the fact that the State demanded a longer deadline to process the recovery of the excess deduction. Instead of fighting in this direction so that the time is shorter, so that we can improve in this ranking and not get worse as compared to last year, the government will come up with a proposal where it wants to extend this deadline. So I don't understand it at all, and I consider that to be the worst part of the tax code we're discussing right now. Another thing that is certainly worth mentioning, and which is also not friendly to entrepreneurs, is the abolition of that tolerance period of five days where entrepreneurs can lodge late tax returns with impunity or without penalties. Again, I do not understand why this deadline is being cancelled. If the state has shown that it is flawless, perfect in the Financial Administration, it does not hold undue deductions, it does not make unnecessary checks upsetting taxpayers, then I would understand if it were so kind that it would also abolish this benefit on the business side. But becoming in the Financial Administration does not behave very well with taxpayers, the tax system is not simplifying, the Financial Administration officials have become more or less drabs, who are more stringent than having some benevolence, and in addition, we have here an annulment of the tolerance period of five days for filing a later tax return. Similarly, a reduction in interest on the part of the State when it holds irregular money is also a matter that goes against entrepreneurs and strengthens the role of the state. So the tax code isn't good, it's another law that goes against entrepreneurs, it's becoming a tradition for this government, and I think we need to do it with these, even though it looks medial, smaller things to say it out loud. We will certainly come up with a whole series of amendments that will think of entrepreneurs and which will no longer bother them more and more about life, as this government is trying to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u19	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. Now, Mr Kamil Farhan in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I suggest we cut the deadline to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u21	Okay, thank you. This is a proposal that is possible for this first reading and corresponds to the Rules of Procedure. Who's next for the debate? Please, Mr. Ambassador. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Chairman, wait a little longer. I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues to remain calm in the hall. When colleagues take their seats, I'm sure it'll be quiet enough for you to present your performance in peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u22	Thank you for the floor. My previous speakers said something, but let's try to sum it up. The State has introduced control reports to monitor VAT returns more effectively. I'm assuming it happens with software when the invoices are paired. As a result, the state wants to keep the money of entrepreneurs for 15 days longer, all salaries of VAT. Not all entrepreneurs, but VAT payers who are entitled to excessive... in a magical amount of $24 billion. We were talking about 16.2 billion, that's plus to the state budget, but since it's a shared tax, about 7.8 billion would be earned by the regions and municipalities. So, Dear VAT payers, Minister Schillerová wants to keep 24 billion to be able to control more effectively the VAT payment that she has claimed in the long run, thanks to a great instrument, a control report, that goes much better than in the past. Let's just say and let's admit that there is a true argument that the Financial Administration needs 15 days longer to control it. So I thought the software was doing it, so I don't know if the officials are sitting there, and now they've got two paper checks, or ten check reports, and now they're looking to see if the invoice number 10190038 is listed in both control reports, then they're gonna blow the whistle and say it's okay. Then I'd understand. In the era of digitalization, I don't fully understand. [[15.40 hours]] But suppose that's a true argument. And if we didn't want to make the business environment worse and at the same time we wanted to get 15 days for the state, it has a simple solution. It is sufficient to say that the tax entity pays VAT when VAT is paid within 15 days of the submission of the tax return. That is, the time limit would remain 30 days between when I will pay and when I will possibly get another month of excessive deduction. This would be a measure balanced against taxpayers, while at the same time allowing the State to do so for 15 days longer for some control activity. Wonder for the world, it's not in the bill's proposal. I'm sure we'll come up with that. Because if the government doesn't agree, and the government majority, then it's obvious that the only reason for this change is the insatiable desire of the state hick to have more money. In this case, one time. This needs to be clarified. One-time, 24 billion. This government is an expert on disposable income. I'm not going to burden you with the debate on the tax package, but I'm going to remember how it's going to spread all reserves one at a time. Revenue from privatisation, technical provisions of insurance companies, reserves of health insurance companies. She's raided the Forests of the Czech Republic, I think 30 billion in the last few years in the budget. And now, world wonder, we're gonna pay for it because there's a barking disaster, the business has saved up for it, but the government has spent it, the money. So the first question to the Minister whether she would agree to this fair measure when the State needs 45 days, so taxpayers would pay within 15 days of filing a tax return. This means not 25 every month, or 25 after the end of the quarter for quarterly payers, but until about the tenth month following. Nothing would happen. The average cash flow wouldn't get worse on average. I'm sure some of them do. On average, they would not get worse cash flow for tax entities. Then we can say that the argument about the need for a longer period of control could be true. If not, if the taxpayer is to pay on the tax return day and the state extends the deadline one time, then it is simply an attack on the money of companies and all VAT payers, which can also be individuals. Madam Secretary, I would like to know if - and I know it is not, the state is no longer fulfilling its obligations today. And although it doesn't control, it happens very often that the 30th day is not credited to the company's account. I'd like some statistics. Not today, but if the Chief of Financial Administration can give you any statistics, how often this happens. That's also unauthorized money retention. And then I'd like to ask the secretary... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] I'll wait, I'm in no hurry... I wonder if she could comment on a table on page 82 of the explanatory memorandum. This table is called Overview of the resulting recovery interest in 2018. I understand he can't have it there in 2019. Interest on unauthorised conduct of the tax administrator: CZK 365 million. I'm referring to the adjective of the "illegal" conduct of the tax administrator. 365 million crowns. Madam Secretary, did it have any personnel implications for anyone in particular in the Financial Administration? That someone must have caused the tax administrator to act unauthorizedly? And it cost taxpayers CZK 365 million. When we discuss various amendments within the state budget and hear about the amounts of CZK 10, 20, 30 million that there is no money, just remember the interest on the unauthorized conduct of the tax administrator - CZK 365 million. It's a waste of money. If the Financial Administration had done the right thing, there'd be zero, not 365 million. But I'm interested in commenting on those last lines because it wasn't clear to me from the reason message, so I don't want to misinterpret it. So I'd like to ask the secretary for a quick comment on the table. She then repeats herself within the RIA, so we have the table twice. Probably to check the attention of readers to see if the tables appear in more than one place. He's in there at least twice. I say that within the framework of the RIA. At the same time, allow me to comment on the proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Well, only someone who doesn't want to read the text can suggest that. Now I do not know which Member or Member suggested this. But really in 30 days, the bill cannot be studied in detail and contributed to this by possible amendments. Look at how many paragraphs it is, how complicated the reason message is. Not everything's wrong there. That's what my colleagues said. I think it's a mockery to even suggest it. And I am sure that the Member who proposed this is not on the budget committee, will not worry about it, and then will vote according to what the flagman will show him. We shouldn't be working like this. There's no delay deadline at this point, let's just say it's open. I don't see any complications. I think the debate will be factual and rational. However, there are suggestions that are debatable. But since this week is the House, next week there are committees, we will see how extraordinary meetings continue, and in 30 days it is impossible to really discuss. And we have a second reading of the state budget, a lot of work for us who deal with numbers, we have a budget, we have a third reading of the state budget, and by then we should have studied in detail and possibly submitted amendments. Of course you can't do it like that. Yes, for those who don't care, who don't really care what's in the law, they just want to have a point, that they supported it, that they're model government MPs, that they voted in favour, maybe they don't mind. Well, we don't mind. I strongly protest against the shortening of the deadline because such a bill cannot be seriously discussed then!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u23	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. We have two more applications for the debate, Mr Ondřej Profant and Mr Tomáš Martínek. But they will be outrun by their party colleague with a factual remark, Mikuláš Ferjenčík. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Stanjura that, if I am not mistaken, my colleague Farhan is on the budget committee. However, I still consider the proposal to be completely ill-advised. It's just that this press really deserves some reasonable time. I think the government would definitely want to avoid what happened in the tax package. And if you go along the way of shortening the deadlines and putting as much pressure as possible to discuss this as quickly as possible, there is a risk that the House will be blocked again. Totally useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Votava's factual comment. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I must give the truth to Mr Stanjur. I was also talking about this on the Committee on Budgets. He quoted here the number of CZK 360 million, which the taxpayer basically has to put to the credit of some officials' decisions. Apparently, it was a hedge order. If the taxpayer forgets anything, he'll pay. If an official makes the wrong decision - now I don't want to say a deliberate decision, and we know it well, we have dealt with the last parliamentary term with hedge orders when Mr. Janeček was CEO - the official is not affected. Well, I don't think that's right, Madam Secretary. And that should be that way for any government, so that just an official who makes the wrong decision - and here in a number of decisions it was that a number of companies ended, and it had consequences even into the tragedy of the family entrepreneurs, so I would assume that the personnel consequences would really be derived from this, and the official for such action will be affected. It's just normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ondřej Profant is now duly registered. Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u28	Good afternoon, honourable citizens, honourable Members and Members. I would first ask the Minister if she could answer us in the course of the debate so that we can respond to this, because I am certainly interested in her answers and I would not like it to be dragged into the next reading. I've read two press releases from the Treasury Department. One's from 21. 6. and they are talking about the My Tax Project. Among other things, there is a presentation where there is a timetable in which I will read that it will start in December 2020 and that in 2021 we will get additional functionality. I'm afraid I can't read any more. When we tried to find out on the eGovernment subcommittee, the officials weren't able to tell us either. It's true that it's been a while back, but overall, I don't feel informed about what's really going to be there and what's not really going to be there. But the thing that worries me the most is that, of course, a portal like this has to work with a tax database, fees, and all that is being run in the ADIS system. Ministry 12. 8. published a press release that triumphantly won the Vendor lock-in in the form of IBM, which the ADIS system supplies under the 1992 contract from the last millennium. Unfortunately, I will read further that the transfer of full property rights is in 2023, not now, and I must say that the transfer of full property rights is only the beginning of the collapse of the vendor lock-in. If you have an undesirable link to one supplier, then the preparation of a new system, which is already written according to current standards, is not only a database very old, in which there are different database views, so the new system is really removing vendor lock-in. And so it's my guess that we're going to keep doing all my taxes under that vendor lock-in IBM, we're not going to have property rights, IBM is going to charge whatever the operation is, because the moment the only supplier is able to work with this system, there's obviously no market pressure to lower the price. Because the price reduction is due to competition. So I wonder, Madam Secretary, how do you deal with this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Tomáš Martínek, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I would like to support or appreciate that the proposal contains our pirate proposal to extend the deadline for electronic tax returns, which will help both citizens and the state, while at the same time providing a positive incentive for the use of digitalisation in public administration. On the other hand, there are also things in the proposal that are against entrepreneurs and may jeopardise the stability of business on the Czech market, such as the said extension of the deadline for VAT refund. I would also like to ask for greater coordination and cooperation between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, for the electronic portal to fulfil the functions of a single collection point from the point of view of the citizen, i.e. that the systems of the Financial Administration, the Czech Social Security Administration and health insurance companies be well connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u31	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. Yes, with a factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u32	Thank you. I may respond a little to myself, but I have addressed the Minister of Industry and Trade here in my speech regarding the comments of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the tax rules. You have not applied any fundamental comment on this proposal, including several times already mentioned deadline for extending the excess VAT deductions by 15 days. So I want to ask you, Minister, because you've been in the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs for a long time, what do you think it means to extend the deadline in the business environment and for small, medium-sized and even large companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister to speak again in the debate and to answer our questions, otherwise only those with priority rights can respond, which, I think, does not fully benefit the culture of debate in this House. Then you can't be surprised if we're having a disproportionate debate at third reading. So I'd like to ask you this if we could at least get an answer to some specific questions. At the same time, I would like to put forward a counterproposal on Mr Farhan's proposal, instead I propose an extension of the deadline to discuss this bill in committees by 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Let's keep going. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary - yes. The rapporteur? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I will come back to all the budget committees, and I will document everything, deliver the analyses, just as I did in the tax package, as I do in all the fundamental laws of the Ministry of Finance's workshop. But now let me at least respond from this point to the comments that were made during the debate. I'll start - I think it was Chairman Kalousek, but it doesn't matter now. It is certainly not true that the purpose of this amendment is to get money into the state budget or into public budgets, as President Stanjura said. That's a byproduct. [[Laughter from the right.]] And you can laugh all you want. We discussed - we have been preparing this amendment for two years, the expert group agreed on it for tax regulations, which existed at the Ministry of Finance for several years, and its participants are judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, the servants of the Ministry of Justice, in certain cases also the Ministry of Justice, public defender of the law, lawyers from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, of course from the Ministry of Finance, from the Financial Administration, from the General Directorate of Customs, and I forgot some of them. From the Bar Association, from the Chamber of Tax Advisors. And the tax expert group agreed, after an analysis that is being carried out -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u37	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If you're debating something other than the tax code, it's fundamentally in the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And the expert group really agreed on this procedure and recommended it, we've been working on it for two years, all of which, of course, has traces and records of these negotiations in January of this year. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] I don't know, I didn't notice too much - I made that remark - that you're saying that we're raising sanctions five times. On the contrary, we are reducing sanctions, and very fundamentally, from 16 percent today, if I were to recalculate the skeleton of the calculation, to 10 percent. And we're reducing the interest to the normal private price of money, which was also something that resulted from the long-term requirements of the caselaw, and -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u39	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you one more time. I'm really asking colleagues and colleagues for peace of mind. If you're having another debate, please do it again in the lobby. If you wish to join the debate - the debate has been closed! And if we are able to properly complete the negotiations, we will discuss the commandments of the committees for discussion, possibly the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, which are two procedural proposals that we need to decide, including a shortening of the time. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the framework of the inter-ministerial review procedure, the Supreme Administrative Court has supported this amendment and all the other related institutes that you have referred to here. Which I also consider to be very important, because the Supreme Administrative Court judges are part of an expert group and these are things that we have been consulting over the long term. It's not made in a month or two at the Treasury Department. As far as control is concerned, when there were reservations on your part that the inspection will be initiated electronically. Please, it's a choice, it won't be an obligation. If the entity insists that it wants to initiate tax control in person, it will, of course, be allowed to do so. On the contrary, we also meet the demands that they feel burdened. So we're giving a choice there to speed up the control procedures, which, of course, are related to the verification of, for example, deductions or other tax obligations. The question of the deadline, that was the most - and I'm going to show the numbers and graphs here - the question of the deadline, the extension of the deadline to 45 days, is inseparably linked to the topic of the over-deduction backup. On the contrary, I would dare to draw your attention - and I will have it all on the budget committees, I will bring it, I will give it away, I will send whatever any of you want, as I always do. This is a drop on the graph - I only have it small, but I promise you all to send it to the Committee on Budgets - a drop in the money held by excessive deductions compared to - we have started since the end of 2014, when it was your last budget, and the introduction of a monitoring report since 2016. [[shows]] And look at the trend. The money clearly - that means, of course, I have it in nominal amounts - the over-deductible amounts withheld at the end of 2014 were more than 7 billion. At the end of June of this year it is a little bit, if 1.2 billion. That's the money that stays in cash flow companies. That means we've improved cash flow, high fives, four billion crowns a year. And that's because of the inspection report. In contrast, inspection reports will speed up the verification of all payments and do not hold back such amounts of excess deductions. And that's what we want to keep doing. Thanks to the fact that... We've been working at the Treasury for two years to return the undisputed portion of the deduction. We have included in the amendment to the Tax Code, which is related to the electronics and the online financial office, because it is one law and there we have to address these topics. And basically, we want the cash flow companies to be even more, which means that by actually holding only the indisputable part of the Financial Administration. But she has to within that time limit - and now take it that the time limit is 30 days. Otherwise, for your information, I have a benchmark of most European Union countries, or you could say almost everyone. And essentially the country, and I will deliver it to you again on the budget committee, I can read it - only the time limits for the deduction: France six months, Italy three months, Hungary 45 days, Germany after the agreement of the overpayment, Austria six months, Spain six months, the Netherlands eight weeks, Greece 90 days and so on. I have a whole benchmark here, which I will of course deliver. The financial administration needs it to be able to do the first pairing, the second pairing in the control report, and then actually assess the undisputed part, so it needs that deadline 15 days longer. And we associate this with a rapid interest reduction and a rapid simplification of tax administration and with interest counting up to 500 crowns. That means that basically the deadline that was there, the liberating period, isn't really going to be necessary, because the little ones are all going to fall into this shift that we're introducing at the moment. And by reducing interest, there is essentially some 0.7 billion minus in the state budget, but they will remain in taxpayers' pockets. And that's what we want to see there anyway. As for the table, from when the bottom comes up, it is part of the explanatory note, I refer you to the explanatory note. Otherwise, of course, I'll have everything on the budget committee again. And basically, the fact that you guys were talking about some table on page 81, that table isn't about any amounts of interest involved. This table has calculated interest on late payments, which are calculated at an amount of 8 billion. And then there's the interest paid by the tax administrator, which is actually related to a certain stretch of time, or when it comes back after a decision by the Board of Appeal, there's some kind of interest, and it's 360 million. But compensation for damage under the law caused by an incorrect official decision is essentially not affected by this amendment. Mr Profant spoke of a public contract for ADIS. I've already talked about this here in connection with the tax package. I'm ready at any time, I put it in the media - basically the fact that the CEO signed a contract with ADIS after 30 years - I'm sorry, with IBM - for four more years to run this system, but then they'll give us, or the Financial Administration, these keys, I've explained it several times, and thanks to that, a public contract for a new system could actually be launched. So these are all things that have succeeded after 30 years, and I am very grateful for them. But this has nothing to do with legislation, Mr Profant, at all with legislation. This is a public contract that - how you want to translate it into legislation, I didn't get it very well. As for Doing Business, that's true. I have analyzed this communication and the position of the Czech Republic in certain criteria implemented by the World Bank. We ended up on the 41st from 190 countries rated. In the area of paying taxes, we placed in 53rd place compared to last year 45. Yes, that's right. Although we stayed on the same - it makes us a criterion, and this is the examination of the very suspicious excess deductions, where we stayed from last year's 17.7 weeks to 18. And this is precisely the way to shorten that deadline. And the fact that there's an effect on the state budget is just a by-product, that's not an intention. We've been preparing the amendment for two years, and I dare say it's a novel that brings a whole series of reliefs to entrepreneurs, especially the small ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u41	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. And before we go any further, the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura has signed up with priority rights. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u42	I would prefer the rapporteur. We have heard the Minister's usual hymn to ourselves - I am open to negotiations, I am ready to debate, I will deliver everything to you. But it did not deliberately speak until after the end of the debate, thereby preventing the debate. It's where we're supposed to have the debate today. Don't bring us anything on the budget committee. And you refused, you're afraid of the debate, you're afraid of your colleagues, you have no arguments. If I take the last sentence - it brings great benefits especially for small entrepreneurs. For 24 billion. Ask those entrepreneurs if they're willing to lend you that $24 billion for free. I think you know the answer. If not, then get an opinion on who would be free to lend money to the state. Take the paradox. The financial administration, the moloch, the giant moloch, needs 45 days to check the control reports. How much does an entrepreneur get when there's an irregularity in that first check, an administrative irregularity? Five business days! So on the one hand, we have a huge state mole that isn't enough for 30 days, needs 45 days, picks up 24 billion taxpayers. And on the other hand, poor little businessman has five business days. Even the accountant can't let this go on vacation between 25 and 30. 'Cause what if the IRS called, and what if they just happened to be rewritten in one invoice number? And if they don't answer in five days, they can get a fine of up to 30,000. Simple as that. And you call that fair access to entrepreneurs? All I'm missing is a sentence, Madam Secretary, that as usual, I'm improving the business environment by taking their money by extending the deadline to the state, and I'm still... [[16.10 hours]] And the secretary isn't deliberately telling the truth. She says this is some kind of interest tax administrator. Madam Secretary, you know as well as I do, so on the microphone -- the line, and it's your table, it's called interest on the unauthorized conduct of the tax administrator. What's incomprehensible about that? If it was interest from the tax administrator's legitimate conduct, I wouldn't say anything. But it's an unauthorized act, and the secretary skipped it. That's some 365 million, some change, don't pay any attention to it when something's late or the appeal court, the appeal finance directorate. But what is important is the unauthorized conduct of the Financial Administration and you, dear entrepreneurs, it only cost 365 384 324 Czech crowns in 2018. And, as the Minister rightly said, this has not yet been caused by the wrong official procedure of the Financial Administration. That's what they keep quiet about. The infamous former CEO of Janeček has launched this hedge command avalanche where the Financial Administration is losing a significant percentage of litigation - and how has he been punished? Well, he wasn't punished. He is the head of the Regional Financial Authority in České Budějovice. Where's his personal responsibility? Where are the calculated compensations for lost disputes? At least for legal representation plus any damage that the State will pay. And for Mr Votava - we agree in his speech. Do you know, Mr President, how the state punished those who caused the interest of unauthorized conduct? Well, he's gonna raise their salary by 1,500 a month next year, 'cause he's picking everybody up the same way. Even those who made an axe to taxpayers of 365 million. Have you noticed that in one word, in one sentence, the Minister would ever admit to any significant failure to the Financial Administration and possibly said that she or the Chief of Financial Administration would handle this in personnel? Never. This is where the omerta pays. We don't talk about that. The hand washes the hand. And I could go on. We've got a lot of nice words in Czech, like the investigation's over, forget it. Thrown out 365 million. And the Minister is afraid of debate. It is only after cowardly appearance that colleagues who are not equipped with the right of priority cannot respond. And then if I have to subpoena their role, then they're going to say, Ježíš, the opposition is terrible, it's obstruction, it's been 30 minutes, maybe 40, or an hour. I don't know how much time Mr. Faltýnek will give us next time. Because he determines when we've said enough and when we haven't, virtually. He's suggesting it, and you approve of it, to be exact. One vote isn't enough. That's right. I'll talk about it tomorrow. Just a repeat conscious violation of the law. I will quote to you tomorrow the promise we all made: I will observe the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic. You consciously violated it repeatedly last week. And you don't give a damn about it, and you're laughing about how you've grown up against the opposition. We know we're in a minority, we can't win any votes. We can count to 200 and we know what 101 and 99 or 108 are and 92, respectively. 130 plus 70, so we're not surprised we won't win the vote. What we're surprised about - what you're using and using most of it for. That's what we're really surprised about. And I'm gonna quote you tomorrow, it's back in the media noise -- you're not even ashamed of the words the Constitutional Court said at your address, you who supported the law on the taxation of church restitutions? They were not all government MPs, I know very well who did not vote in favour and who voted in favour. Well, for the 114, read it again. I know you won't, so I'll read you what you've done. And instead of a little humility coming, again, you repeatedly violate the Rules of Procedure and still laugh at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u43	The chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek is still reporting with priority rights. I am simply pointing out to the Rules of Procedure that, of course, the appellant has the right to a final word as well as the rapporteur. Using it is not an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u44	That is certainly true, Mr President - thank you for the word - that the petitioner has the right to the final word, but the petitioner has also been asked by some of my colleagues whether he would answer in the debate, which the Minister has not done, precisely because he fears the debate and knows that its arguments are odd. So unfortunately, it's just us who have that priority right, which isn't entirely fair. I would like to make one comment within my priority right. The Minister told us how the law was clearly agreed by an expert committee composed of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the Bar Association. Well, I don't know how much she agreed, because the comments of all business associations were not accepted in the slightest and neither were the comments of the tax chamber, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, and neither were the comments of the Czech Bar Association, Madam Secretary. I have Mr. Ing's statement here. Tomáš Hajdušek, head of the tax administration section of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, says quite clearly and publicly that, according to the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the most problematic changes that are not relevant to the My Tax Project at all. As an example, the Chamber of Tax Advisors states that the extension of the time for the repayment of excess deductions, the reform of the penalty system and the abolition of the tolerance period for the payment of the tax can be indicated. - I think all the people who have performed here have acted against these very points, and the Chamber of Tax Advisors has reminded them. And I just don't believe that she could have agreed with them on that expert committee. According to the Chamber of Tax Advisors, there are no further risks and changes associated with the proposed electronisation of tax administration, unfortunately, the Ministry did not use the amendment to eliminate existing problems of electronization, on the contrary, by creating a virtually parallel communication channel to data boxes, it is in the opinion of the Chamber of Tax Advisors. For example, it is not clear from the proposal whether the priority is to deliver to existing data boxes within the generally used data box information system or to tax information boxes within the My Tax project. This will undermine legal certainty in relation to the moment of delivery. In addition to the rejection of the comments, the relevant experts of the Chamber of Tax Advisors are also paused at the manner in which the Ministry approaches the settlement of the comments. Overall, the Ministry of Finance's approach, which refuses to think more deeply about the well-meaning observations of comment points, is incomprehensible. Instead, they are blamed for the ignorance of the legislation, as it has become the Czech Bar Association. The Czech Bar Association submitted its comments and the Ministry informed her that it did not know the law. The conclusion is: as if the Ministry of Finance wanted everyone to take the position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, whose comments were mere grammar proofreading. - It is appropriate here to congratulate the Minister of Industry for his extraordinary collegial loyalty, because things that clearly harm entrepreneurs and the business environment have left the Ministry of Industry absolutely calm and have not applied a single comment to them. So much, Madam Secretary, for your expert group, which has so wonderfully agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u45	Thank you. Once again, the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will exercise his right of priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u46	If there was a debate, my fellow Members from my parliamentary club would come here. They can't, so I'm subpoenaing their role. About the expert group and the Supreme Court opinion. The Minister here presented as an amazing idea the Financial Administration of the Ministry of Finance that they would only hold back the disputed piece of VAT, but she forgot to say that this was the result of lost litigation. That's right! That's right, I'm capable of proving it. You simply lost, the Financial Administration lost precisely in this case, that it had a liquidation character, that you not only withheld the disputed part of VAT, but the entire amount of VAT. And basically for any time. And to that end, all of you will answer whether the taxpayer ever has any time in communication with the Office, with the Financial Administration. He doesn't! [[16.20 hours]] And I'm just reminding you of the five-day liquidation. Yes, it's no problem for big companies. That's to be said, but for small companies, where one or one accountant is often externally, that's extremely limited. This man can also get sick, imagine, and a 30,000 fine. This is called a friendly business environment in the administration of government politicians. And then they protest against some international rankings. I don't think we need international rankings to do that. All you have to do is ask the entrepreneurs what's upsetting them and what's bothering them. We don't need Doing Business for that. This may be interesting for political debate, but just to know what's upsetting these entrepreneurs most today, you just have to ask them and you'll hear them. Nonsensely high fines, pointlessly short deadlines, the IRS has time for everything, pointlessly short periods for implementing new laws. Such a famous tax package. Maybe he'll pay at 1. 1. When will it come out in the Collection of Laws? How many days in advance? Not months - how many days in advance. Ten fifteen, I don't know, maybe sixteen. Can the State justly want everyone to implement the new law correctly after 16 or 17 days? Well, he can. He's got three years. Not the businessman, he's got to work the first month since day one. And after three years, the Financial Administration will come and be as smart as everyone should have known in January 2020. A long time ago after they process their own methodological guidelines on how to control it, it will take several months, perhaps years. There's a dog buried in that. I think it's a typical example of a law where two different things are mixed up. Digitisation, electronization - I think it has general support. If the bill contained only this, I think it would pass relatively smoothly through the Chamber of Deputies. But when the desire to raise more money is stuck there, to improve the conditions for the state to the detriment of entrepreneurs, we will, of course, come across the problems in the debate. Unlike those who need 30 days, we read the laws and are able to notice the problematic places, to draw attention to them. But we're aware of the House of Mathematics, so you can say that we're going to be returning VAT for six months. I'm aware that you have the strength to do this, and I'm not surprised. Just compare it with your own programming statement. I read it to you last time, how you'll prepare tax laws well in advance, and the package came here in June, so we're discussing it. When I was watching, the first reading took two negotiating days two days in a row, the second reading took one day, there was no delay, except that he arrived late. I've already read in the press about the new tax package for 2021. He should be here by now. It should be here by now that we have enough time to debate it before it comes again in June or May and in October or November next year we will be blamed for delaying it, because there are regional elections and Senate elections, and an election campaign and a mandate, and I don't know what everything. He's dictating the House program, dictating the government majority. Logically. It pays for every government majority. If we're late for something, it's not the opposition's problem, but it's the government's majority problem. If you look at the 35th meeting program, I feel like we have roughly, I don't know, 250, maybe 270 unnegotiated points tonight. Tomorrow we'll only be sitting in the afternoon, Thursday's interpelative day, we haven't canceled it yet, luckily, so we'll have two hours for some news from the military environment, maybe a few bills will be made on Friday, so we'll have 250, maybe 260 laws. That's where the government spits out more and more new laws. He always has a press conference about how important it is, how great it is. I think it would be great if we didn't approve any bill for six months except for the state budget. Nothing would happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u47	Thank you. The chairman of the ODS Club has been given priority. Before I go on, I'll read the apologies received by the Prime Minister of the House. From 17.20 he apologizes to the end of the hearing day Olga Richterová and from 18 pm for work reasons Pavel Pustějovskýějovský. We will continue with the vote on the proposals that have come in the debate, and this is first the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm going to sign you all out, I'm going to put you all on the line, so I've asked my colleagues and colleagues several times to go to the lobby for a decent environment. When the number of applications is settled, we will decide on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for the completion of the vote number 205. The number of entries seems to be correct. I have begun voting number 205, and I ask who is in favour of returning the motion for completion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 205 of the 165 present for 77, against 69. The motion was denied. We will now vote on another proposal, which is a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. That's gonna be the 206 vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 206 of 170 present for 68, against 79. The motion was not accepted. Then we can continue. We'll deal with the motion for a commandment... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Prosecutions from the diaper.]] There is still a proposal for an extension of the time limit to discuss 20 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. We're going to decide in the 207 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 207 of 170 present for 78 against 63. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Committee on Budgets shall be proposed by the Guarantee Committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We can therefore decide on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as the Committee on Guarantee in the vote number 208, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 208 of 169 present for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the Organising Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees for discussion. I'm asking if anyone's suggesting another committee. Yes, colleague Jurečka and colleague Profant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u48	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would also like to propose an economic committee in view of the impact of this amendment on the business environment in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u49	Thank you. Colleague Profant. Your suggestion, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u50	I would like the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, in whose competence we have eGovernment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-003-034.u51	Okay. So it's the Economic Committee. We will decide in the vote number 209, which I have begun. I ask who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 209 out of 170 present for 80, against 40. The motion was not accepted. Now the Public Administration Committee. We will decide in the vote number 210, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the Public Administration Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 210 of the Member present 171 for 76, against 55. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee of Budget as a committee of guarantee. He was not directed to any other committee. There was no time limit for shortening or extending the deadline and therefore the legal period of 60 days is valid. I hereby thank the Minister and Vice-President of the Government, Alena Schillerová, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude item 34. [[16.30 hours]] We'll continue with point number
