ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u1	5. Draft law amending certain laws in the internal administration / House print 301/5/ - returned by the Senate The bill has been returned to us by the Senate with amendments; the resolution is available as a House press 301/7. We have information on the amendments in our mail. I welcome Senator Jitka Seitlová among us. Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, Minister of Culture, will speak for the plaintiffs on the resolution of the Senate and on the amendments instead of the apologized Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, on behalf of the Prime Minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u2	Thank you. So, colleagues, it has been said that we have here a bill that amends some of the laws in the internal administration section. We were here this year discussing all the readings of the law, in January the first reading, in April the second, in June, I guess, the third and finally we accepted it here together. I'd just like to remind you of the nature of what's been going on here. [[Noise in the hall.]] The reason for this was the adaptation of certain regulations within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, which responded to the regulation of the European Parliament and also to the Council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens. It was about simplifying certain requirements for the submission of certain authentic instruments in the European Union. This directly applicable regulation of the European Union makes it possible to replace the requirement for the official translation of certain documents, such as: matriculation documents, you can replace it with a multilingual standard form, which is issued by the competent authority together with the document itself. [[18.20 hours]] Following this change, the Czech law requires the appropriate powers of the authorities to issue the multilingual forms. This also brings some simplification of administration to Czech citizens if they submit documents in a foreign language to the Czech authorities, but also when they submit Czech documents abroad. Furthermore, the proposal includes changes that respond to experience in the implementation of copy verification - that is called Vidimation, and signature verification - that is called legalization. Verification in relation to the management of basic registers or changes relating to the introduction of the possibility of establishing and managing data boxes exclusively electronically, e.g. using an electronic ID card, i.e. without the need to visit the competent authority. So these are roughly the insides. The House approved the proposal on 12 July 2019 and then we passed it on to the Senate. He then discussed the proposal on 14 August 2019 and returned it to the Chamber of Deputies with two amendments, and I will say something about them here. The first amendment of the Senate is intended to reduce the period of deposit of the Matrix Death Book at the Matrical Office from 75 to 50 years. This is a change that has already been discussed during the drafting of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies, but the House did not support it. And here I would point out that the adoption of the proposal would be linked to complications and costs on the side of archives that would have to accept unexpectedly and shockingly 25 years of death books. This would be quite a burden on the archives even for those handing over the matrices. The amendment does not have much to do with the submitted material. He's just taking advantage of the opening of the math bill submitted by the draft amendment. I therefore consider it essential that the question of the time of the storage of matrice books by the authorities, their transfer to archives, as well as the issue of access to data in the matrice books be discussed comprehensively, when, not only from the whole context, in the form of a unique amendment. The regional authorities, the regional authorities and the regional authorities, and the authorities, should also comment on this and assess what this would mean. What effect it would have in practice. So... The Ministry of the Interior offers a solution consisting of - let us simply discuss it, let us discuss it, but precisely in connection with the fact that we will discuss a larger and more comprehensive amendment to the substantive law. That's the classic thing about it being a little tied up, the changes. To be consensual and also feasible in practice. I would like to remind you that this amendment was approved by the Government on 2 September 2019. So there really will be an opportunity to have this discussion over it. And then there is the Senate's second amendment, and it demands that literal extracts from matriculation books can be issued to any natural person, provided that legal deadlines have elapsed since the registration in question has been carried out in the relevant matrix books. On this proposal, I could say that the Senate's proposed substantive change is part of a more comprehensive amendment to the Statute Act, which I have already mentioned, and the Ministry of the Interior is convinced that it will be in a more legislative form. So this is how I dealt with the two changes proposed by the Senate, and now I dare ask you, honourable Members, to approve the bill in which you discussed it and approved it in the House before we passed it to the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u3	Thank you, and now I ask the senator to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, let me come before you and say hello to you in the evening, almost 19 o'clock, with the fourth bill you sent back to the Senate. I hope that his fate will not be the same as the three previous ones, because although the Minister said that this House amendment is better, I dare say that if you approve a Senate amendment, you will speed up a process that will help the archives, which will help the matrices, who will help the mayors, help the researchers and also protect our matrices. Yes, we can wait for another amendment submitted by the government. Of course, this is a clear procedure that awaits us. But the big novel, which is prepared, is only at the beginning and according to the negotiations that I had, it is clear that there will still be many and many discussions about the content of this amendment, because it is quite controversial, I would say, as already comes suggestions from various archivists or from those who work with archivals. So please, although I know that you have discussed this at your clubs to consider whether what the Senate is proposing and what there are actually two, I will say small modifications which can help very much in practice, whether they should really be approved. Let me put it this way: the first, rightly said by the Minister, concerns § 23. It's about the matrices lying in the math books of death, and those math books of death have been there for 70 years since the last entry. That's a really long time. However, another paragraph states and applies that, after 30 years since the last entry, registrars are to ensure access to these books. That means that actually the registrars are replacing our archives that we've been building for expensive money. You know some of them. Regional archives were built, district archives were built, specialists were there, so instead for 45 years these matrices provided these matrices. What's going on with the math books? Those math books are some 150 years old, 200 years old. They're rare books. And in any case, especially in small villages, mayors, matriarchs are not able to ensure that they are stored in good technical conditions. To be in a space that's air-conditioned so they won't be harmed. So it really makes sense to shorten the time. Plus, we've been looking into what's going on with the so-called... Shredders, that's what it's called. I mean, when the mayor's mayor's register goes to the archives, it's called shredding. Minister, I understand it's not his area of expertise, and he has information he's been given, but he said - that would be collapse. Well, that's not really in practice. We've been looking into it again. There would be no collapse, no doubt. And even if it is said that the time will be shorter, it means that only then will the period of shredding, which sometimes takes a year, sometimes even quite longer. We have information that sometimes for several years. It also means that regional archives that have space could immediately take these books, these matriculate death books, and they could digitize them. What does that mean? It means that they would speed up the search in these matrices' books to speed up access. And now I will say what is here and what rules the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, we have a problem with building processes. Why do we keep building proceedings standing? They're standing by because we're tracking down the owners. We're tracking down the owners. And ask anyone who's building a line construction, what's the problem? He drives around these matrices, these matrices, these little towns, and he's looking at the matrices. The Senate comes up with this - let's cut short this time. We're not quite saying we're interrupting this time, no. But we really want to cut back on that time, and it would help. But then there's another aspect of why we dealt with it in the Senate. The amendment to the law, which actually tells us right now that if anyone wants to look into the math book, the registrar has to see to it that something doesn't happen to the math book. The person can browse, look, the researcher can sit there for hours. And now imagine a small village where they have one clerk who holds the register and many other acts. She's gonna be totally paralyzed all the time because she has to watch what's going on with this very rare, even a very old math book. It is indeed a situation for smaller municipalities that is almost unsolvable and they will have to spend more money if it remains as the proposal unfortunately is now in the House version. [[18.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you voted on a similar amendment, but at that time there was information that this would violate the protection of personal data. And in the consultations that we had in the Senate and subsequently in the Ministry of the Interior, in fact, those who argued by violating the protection of personal data had to admit that this was not the case, that the argument was not and did not correspond to reality and that it did not come out of reality, because at this point everyone really has access to those books, and the protection of personal data is ensured by the archival law. So I think you've made decisions based on information that didn't come out of reality, and that's why we're in a bit of a new situation. I ask you to consider whether these two small amendments, which would really help a lot in practice, whether to not accept them and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u5	I wish you a good evening and now I ask that the Minister of Culture, Minister Zaorálek, who represents the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the amendments tabled. I'm sorry. I am now opening the debate because I have now taken over the service. I now have Mr Jan Čižinský in the debate first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm sorry. Ambassador, I'm sorry. Mr Milan Pour, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, will comment on the Senate resolution. I'm sorry, we were passing on some stuff about the next point. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few words about the bill that the Senate has given back to us. The first amendment, which is essentially identical to the amendment already tabled by a fellow Member of Čižinský and which is not related to the regulation in question, was decided by the House in the past not to accept it. It also raised the substantive objections of the Ministry of the Interior, which we will probably be dealing with when the proposed big amendment to the Act on Matrics is presented, as has already been done here today. However, on the second proposal concerning the extension of the circle of persons to whom a literal extract from the matrix book can be provided - I believe that this issue, too, deserves a more detailed discussion. The Ministry of the Interior stated that it agrees with the merit of this amendment and that it will incorporate it into the upcoming amendment to the Act on Matrics and that it has decided on a more appropriate legislative solution than the Senate has chosen. For the reasons set out above, I would like to suggest that the House should maintain its wording as previously referred to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u7	I am now opening the debate. I have one registered member for the debate, and he is Mr Jan Čižinský. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador. Sorry to keep you waiting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a purely practical matter ahead of you. And there are many people who make pedigrees, genealogies who look and want to look into the matrices. Now these people want to know where who died and when, so they drive around the villages, the matrices, so they can find out. Because it's very difficult in practice, and indeed, the math workers have to be there when the researcher is there, so that he might not steal the register. The situation is that, in the end, the employees of the matrices send it by e-mail, take pictures and send it, especially in smaller villages, rather than actually have the researcher there, and so they actually do the work for him, more or less they do it outside the law, because it is simply very difficult within the law. That means - what is proposed? It is suggested that researchers go where they should go, that is, to the archives. To the big district archives where the registers are all together and they can find out what they're interested in. I'll draw attention to how the hearing took place here when we approved it in the House. There were a few points here why not shorten this deadline and why not move the registers. Those points have been overturned over the course of all of them. Now there is only one voice here, namely that the handover of a large number of matrices will be processually complex. But even this reason is not relevant, because in 2024 a much larger collection of matrices will take place. They will move not only death, but also marriage registers led since 1949. This means, in practice, that all the reasons for which this adjustment has not been approved have been refuted. This means that if you want to facilitate the situation for municipalities and matrices, please approve the text proposed by the Senate. You lighten everyone's work, the registers move to the archives where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u9	I will look around the hall to see if there is any further interest in the speech in the general debate. If anyone changes their mind, I'll read an apology. Mrs Věra Adámková apologises between 18.45 and 23.59 for work reasons. I don't see anyone in the hall, so I'm done with the general debate, and if no one's reporting, we're done. Are you interested in the final words? Senator? You're interested in the final word. Then we'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word. You're not interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u10	Mr President, dear Members, I have taken the final floor, although I know that time is pushing us. I'm asking you to consider whether...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u11	I beg you to remain calm in the Chamber, please let us hear the Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u12	... so whether we really hear each other, because it was said here that yes, that the Senate's proposals would be part of another comprehensive adjustment. The complex adjustment will be at least in a year, maybe in two years. And people in practice are waiting for that. I was talking about the construction proceedings. These are particularly critical. Mr Čižinský spoke of those researchers, but take how many line constructions we have, where we do not know who is the owner, and we will actually delay the whole proceedings for a year. It's just two small adjustments that they're not against, there are no major contradictions. All objections were de facto refuted. So please consider whether you really will not support two amendments that would help many people and builders in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-004-005.u13	The Minister is not interested in the final word. So I'm gonna read one more apology. Mrs Jana Krutáková... is already present at the hearing, so there is no excuse, on the contrary it is a withdrawal of an apology. We shall now proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I will arrange for the Members to appear in the Chamber. I've got an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out and sign you all up with your voting cards. I note that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. [[18.40 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill which amends certain laws in the internal administration section, according to the House press 301/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 301/7'. Initiating serial number 26 vote. Who's in? Who's against it? I note that we did not accept the bill as approved by the Senate, for it was 59, against 79. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain laws in the internal administration section, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to House Press 301/5'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 27, 166 Members signed up, for 160, against none. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Senator, and I'm done discussing this press. We will now proceed to the next point. This is... Someone signed up for the debate. Okay, that's to this point. It's a point number.
