ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u1	6. Proposal by Members of Ivan Bartoš, Jakub Michálek, Radek Holomčík and others for the Act amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended, and Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (the Act on the Register of Contracts), as amended /German press 50/ - second reading We interrupted the discussion of this item on 13 November 2018 at the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies before the end of the general debate, in the statement of the Minister of Defence, Resolution No. 387 of the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The statement of the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar was sent to you on 6 December 2018 in electronic mail to Members of Parliament's Clubs. At the rapporteur's table, Mr Michálek and rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Member Ondřej Profant, took his place. I ask if there is an interest again in the presentation of the appellant or rapporteurs. It's not like that. We will therefore continue the interrupted debate. I have Mr Vích's first report to the general debate at the moment. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall. Please transfer any discussions to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, I would like to say that during the period when this material was interrupted, this material was discussed and approved by the Defence Committee, which adopted the amendment, which is referred to as the House Press 50/10. This amendment has been inserted into the system. In general, these are matters relating to elements and subjects of critical infrastructure, objects important for the defence of the state, objects of possible attack. These are things that have relations with crisis management laws, etc. This amendment included a proposal from the Ministry of Defence to extend this amendment, or the exception was also for enterprises whose founder is the Ministry of Defence. This is a summary of this amendment. I will then sign up in a detailed debate on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u3	Thank you. Mrs Černochová joined the debate as a second. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to sign up for the amendments that I have put into the system under the numbers 1823 and 1824. These amendments concern the provisions of Paragraph 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Law. The exemption of information on ongoing criminal proceedings from the scope of the Act on Free Access to Information shall be added. Unfortunately, the law enforcement authorities are now overwhelmed by a number of requests for information relating to ongoing criminal proceedings, and these authorities then have to make every failure to provide information difficult to justify. The proposed legislation thus returns to the original meaning of the existing version of § 11 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the law, i.e. exclude the possibility of requesting information on ongoing criminal proceedings. In practice, requests for the provision of a number of different internal information, which are neither internal instructions nor personnel regulations under the existing legislation referred to in Section 11 (1) are also very common in the practice of providing information under the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the law. These include, for example, information on internal and probation procedures, preparatory materials for various judicial meetings and proceedings with administrations, preparatory materials for meetings of advisory bodies or working coordination groups, as well as requests for information on the award of test questions before selection procedures in the personnel field, records of work trips, etc. This information does not interfere in any way with the rights of persons outside the debtor, but it is not always desirable to provide such information, as this could result in a distortion of the exercise of the powers of the debtor. Asking for information is not only a constitutionally guaranteed right under Article 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, but also a degree of responsibility. The processing of requests for information is linked to a formal process and it is therefore appropriate that the initiating party should at least be identified in a basic way and that identification should be confirmed. As in the case of other submissions, a new signature of the request for information is required, either physical or electronic in the case of an application electronically, for applications sent by means of data boxes, the confirmation of the applicant's identification results precisely from this form of submission of the application. The proposed legislation does not in any way aim to limit the possibility of asking for information, but not by acting as anonymous persons. At the same time, the proposed legislation strengthens the responsibility of the applicant for the request for information. [[14.20 hours]] The present version of Section 17 (b) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 of the Act is based on the assumption that this information will be provided to the applicant after payment of the remuneration for an extremely extensive search for information. This means that the obliged entity should prepare this information, seek it out before payment of the payment, i.e. in a situation where it does not know whether or not the required remuneration will be paid. This, of course, wipes out the importance of the cited provision as the protection of obliged entities from unnecessary demand for excessive information, respectively. compulsory entities shall partially cover the labour costs associated with this activity. Moreover, it may lead to a situation where the original applicant does not pay and does not receive the information, but later someone else asks for it, we may also have to assume that it may be a set up person to whom the mandatory entity provides it for free because the information will already be collected and will not have to search for it. The law should therefore expressly provide that the search for information will be initiated only after payment of the payment. The amendment to which I refer under number 1824, concerns the issue arising from the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court. It is, for example, the judgment in Case 8AE 55/201166 of 22. 10. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. According to the caselaw cited, these persons have the right to the basic principles of the activities of the administrative bodies enshrined in Act 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Code, as amended, i.e. in the course of the processing of the application, the compulsory body shall be informed of the application lodged even if, and the manner of the decision considered, they must be allowed to comment within a reasonable period of time. The basic time limit for processing the request for information shall be 15 days. Within that period, the obliged entity should identify the circle of the persons concerned, process the notification of the application submitted, or, where appropriate, the manner in which it is processed, or deliver the notification to the persons concerned and provide them with a reasonable period of time for their possible response. Where a compulsory body does not have a contact information enabling electronic communication with the persons concerned, or such persons are not available in this way the basic time limits for the processing of the application, for example due to illness or leave, situations may arise where the essential background from the person concerned does not have the compulsory body available within the time limit for the provision of information and cannot make use of it in any way. Furthermore, I propose simplifying the processing of requests for information where the information is provided in the form of a paper or electronic copy of a document in which only anonymity of personal data is carried out in accordance with the law. The proposal is based on the experience of the obliged entities that applicants are generally not primarily interested in the personal data contained in the document requested by them, but the purpose of their application is to obtain the other information contained therein, while they do not formulate their application in an appropriate manner, often because they do not have a more accurate idea of the extent and content of the document requested by them. In cases where personal data would be considered as an important part of the information it intends to obtain, the applicant should be able to communicate this fact to the obliged entity in a way that the law on free access to information provides for the submission of a written request in a regulatory manner, of course. And a mandatory entity would be obliged to issue a decision within a seven-day period. In the event that a compulsory body does not do so, the applicant should be able to lodge a complaint against its procedure. That is about all there is to the justification for these amendments. The amendment resulting from the Ministry of Defence and subsequently discussed by the Defence Committee has already been justified here by a fellow Member of Vích, so of course I am just saying that I will also support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u5	Thank you, Madame. The next is the debate by President Chvojka, and then Mr Luzar will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would not like to do this when I do this in a detailed debate, but to explain why I am making an amendment to this press and what the amendment is about. The change is that I do not interfere in any way with Part Two, which regulates the register of contracts, but I intervene in Part One, which regulates the Act on Free Access to Information, by proposing that Articles 1 and 2 be abolished without compensation in Part One. And my argument is very simple and logical. In its opinion on this press number 50, the Government pointed out legislative shortcomings in the amendment to the Act on Free Access to Information in that section first, with the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a comprehensive amendment to Act No. 106/1999 Coll., which will regulate a number of issues, including the identification of mandatory entities under the said Act. This amendment, I hope, and I have such a promise from the Ministry of the Interior, will begin to discuss this year, and I therefore suggest that we release the proposed amendment to Act 106 in press number 50 and wait for the modification made by the aforementioned government amendment. As former Prime Minister, I respect legislation, especially those who are at the Ministry of the Interior. I think that the reasons why the press in question in the section concerning Law 106, the reasons why the amendment is not quite right, are logical and clear, and therefore I would really wait for the government amendment to pass through the standard interdepartmental commentary procedure. That's how it should be for such an important novel. And, of course, I expect a hearing at the Legislative Council of the Government. Thank you, and I will still sign up for the amendment in the context of a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u7	Thank you, too. He briefly apologises between 14.45 and 16.15 for working reasons, Mr Pavel Růžička. Next is Mr Luzar, then Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a minor problem with the fact that, in the amendments that I have been preparing for this press, I have not succeeded in e-mailing my amendment to which I wanted to sign up, and I do not know how to resolve it right now, because I only have it in a paper copy, and I will probably have to read it in a detailed debate and delay you for a while in order to keep it loaded. And if I can find this document in electronic form, I'll just refer you to it. But in a detailed debate, I ask patience that I had no idea in the confusion that the point would be included, because I relied on the reason and decision of the Constitutional Court on this point to be preferred. Still, it didn't work, so I guess I'll hold you back a little bit more in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u9	Thank you. Well, hopefully it won't be too long, Mr. Ambassador. You're really gonna have to read that on protocol. Mr. Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u10	Good afternoon. Mr President, members and members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me also take part in the presentation of my amendment. I was originally hoping that this House would have common sense in most of the days, and given that the Constitutional Court's statement, which concerns what we are amending, should be heard in the next two weeks. When that did not happen, I am forced here to read this amendment and introduce it. It is Amendment 1124 and concerns that part of Act 340, the Act on the Register of Contracts. [[14.30 hours]] Let me therefore state the reasons. The aim of my amendment is to maintain an exemption from the obligation to publish contracts in the register of compulsory entities operating in a competitive environment, that is for state enterprises, the national undertaking Budějovický Budvar, public research institutions, state services and other legal entities with the ownership of a State or a local authority. The text of the exception, which is part of the Act on the Register of Contracts for a relatively short time, is the result of a complexly sought compromise in the last parliamentary term in this Chamber of Deputies. After all, the government, in its neutral opinion on the bill's proposal to abolish this exemption, has clearly opposed it when it stated that, in view of the short period during which this provision is effective, its possible abolition should be subject to a broader consensus in order for the resulting legislation to be stable in the long term. The reasons which led the legislature to establish this derogation are described in detail in the explanatory memorandum to Law No. 249/2017 Coll., which has been amended by the Act on the Register of Contracts, and are still relevant. The Act on the Register of Contracts, in its original version, introduced state undertakings and other legal entities with the ownership of a State or a local authority moving in a competitive environment into a difficult situation when de facto forced them to reveal their business strategy to competitors. Although the Act on the Register of Contracts provides certain protection of business secrets, at the cost of unacceptable risk of legal uncertainty in the form of possible nullification of previously concluded contracts. There is no clear legal definition of business secrets and the interpretation of what is business secrets is carried out by courts in any particular case. Their views on the content of this term may vary according to the circumstances which they may cause in the present case. Repeal of that exemption, which was enshrined in the Act on the Register of Contracts by Amendment No. 249/2017 Coll., would also constitute a fundamental restriction on their right to free entrepreneurship and breach of equal conditions in competition for the parties concerned. This disadvantage would be based solely on the nature of the owner of those entities concerned. The legislation which would in such a way disadvantage state undertakings and other legal entities with the ownership of a State or a local authority as opposed to other competitors whose contracts are not subject to publication would be contrary to the fundamental principles of competition. In addition, the above conclusion in its opinion of 29 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. 2016 also stated the Office for the Protection of Competition. Moreover, it must be stressed that the maintenance of the exemption in question from the obligation to publish contracts does not in any way mean that public control of the management of legal persons affected by the exemption would be prevented. The founders and owners of central government and local authorities shall apply their control activities on an ongoing basis, either directly or through supervisory boards. The state and local authorities have enough control mechanisms that have a much wider scope than the register of contracts, with the exception that they do not endanger business. Last but not least, it must be added that the period during which the provisions of the Act on the Register of Contracts are effective is not long enough for its possible negative effects to be assessed responsibly. Therefore, it is necessary at this point in time that the exemption referred to in Section 3 (3) is necessary. Article 4 (1) (a) (r) maintain. Thank you, and in a detailed debate, I will take this amendment once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u11	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. With priority rights, and without priority rights, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u12	Thank you. At the beginning of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, I suggested that we wait 14 days to discuss this point. The will was the majority to discuss it today, I respect that. At the most, we will return the bill to second reading at the third reading and take any changes into account. In any event, given that this is a parliamentary bill, the Government's position on the House Press 50 shows that the proposed definition of mandatory entities using the terminology of the Commercial Corporations Act does not cover the full range of persons from whom the State or a local government unit itself or with other local authorities, including, where appropriate, through another legal entity, the acquisition of majority ownership. The proposed extension of the definition of mandatory entities does not reduce the risk of future application problems with regard to the applied terminology of the Commercial Corporations Act. In addition to the above, I state that there is currently an inter-ministerial commentary procedure for the Government's draft amendment to Act No. 106/1990 Coll., in its up-to-date version, which addresses the whole issue comprehensively, and here I would personally prefer a government bill which is going through a properly legislative process as it should. Moreover, the Government proposal must contain all attributes of the full legislative process compared to the parliamentary proposal. This means that it can legitimately be expected to provide a comprehensive impact assessment on the issue, which is not done by the House press 50 in the first part. Contracts for which exemption from the obligation to publish is proposed shall also be concluded by operators of critical infrastructure elements pursuant to Section 2 (b). (k) Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management and Amendment of Certain Acts, as amended, respectively operators of basic services pursuant to § 2 letter. (k) Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security, as amended. These are also strategically important contracts in terms of securing the state's basic infrastructure, such as rescue system, state defence, Administration of state material reserves, which result mainly from the Act on the Integrated Rescue System, the Act on the Defence of the Czech Republic or the Act on the Administration of State Material Reserves. For reasons of clarity, the conglomerate of contractual relations from those areas shall continue to be referred to as critical infrastructure in the text. The reason for not publishing contracts affecting directly or indirectly any of the above mentioned laws is to maintain the conditions for ensuring the security of key infrastructure and security elements of the State, when the publication of contracts by critical infrastructure entities, respectively. entities providing essential functions of the state, for example, typically defence, reveals vulnerable areas and weakens the possibility of their effective protection. Disruption of the critical infrastructure function would have a serious impact on the security of the state, the security of the basic needs of the population, the health of persons or the economy of the state. In the context of dynamically developing technologies, the risk of security incidents and cyber attacks is potentially increased. Therefore, maximum attention should be paid to the safe functioning of critical social or economic activities, especially to the functioning of critical infrastructure elements. Of course, every citizen has the right to information. No one denies that. However, the right to seek and disseminate information can be limited by law when it comes to measures in a democratic society necessary, inter alia, for the security of the state, public security and the protection of public health. It is the elements of critical infrastructure that require maximum protection for the state to meet its obligations towards citizens to ensure internal security and protection against the harmful consequences of exceptional conditions, such as attacks on soft or hard targets, cyber or other security incidents. Legislation regulating critical infrastructure respects constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, in particular the right to respect for private life, the protection of personal data, freedom of business, the right to property and the right to effective legal protection. It clearly establishes the responsibility of critical infrastructure operators for the continuity of the provision of such services, the obligation to take appropriate and appropriate technical and organisational measures to manage security risks and their prevention, information or communication systems controllers, responsibility for the security of their systems. It is the strengthening of the security of key information systems in the Czech Republic, which has happened recently, that guarantees higher security of Czech cyberspace and generally critical infrastructure elements as such. Therefore, I propose the removal of contracts which are directly related to State security, public security and public health protection, in particular those of critical infrastructure operators and basic cyber security services. These, according to the European directive, are energy, transport, banking, infrastructure of financial markets, health care, supply and distribution of drinking water and digital infrastructure. From the above list of basic services, it is quite clear that it is now an essential part of modern society, without whose proper functioning everyday life can hardly be imagined. [[14.40 hours]] In addition, when one of the basic services is blacked out - we can talk about drinking water distribution, possibly electricity supply or health care - we also need to consider the risks of public order disruption and public security. The publication of the contracts of those entities would reveal sensitive facts and their context, which could potentially lead to a threat to the security and strategic interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. In view of the public interest in the confidentiality of certain legal facts here on information on critical infrastructure elements and basic cyber security services, I propose to adjust the regime for this information in a regime similar to classified information. Therefore, contracts on crisis situations or situations similar to them are explicitly standardized. In view of the nature of the above contracts, I propose extending the adjustment for immediate entry into force within the meaning of Article 6 (1) of the EC Treaty. In order to ensure the protection of the State's resources and to ensure the effective functioning of the State's resources, it is necessary to ensure that the State's resources and resources are managed by the State's competent authorities. Resolution of the contested situations in § 7 para. It is necessary to maintain the Act on the Register of Contracts. However, there must be an adjustment and link to the new version of Section 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (r) as amended by this amendment, since the assessment of the exemptions is not appropriate to refer to the whole of Section 3, but only to the contracts referred to in Section 3 (3). Article 4 (1) (a) r). For others, there is no doubt about the application of the exception. At the same time, in the light of legal certainty, it is appropriate to provide that, where exceptions are assessed by the Ministry of the Interior, the rule that the contract is invalid does not apply if it is not published. New § 3a para. 4. It is also necessary to establish an independent body which, on the basis of a proposal from a legal person pursuant to § 2 para. 1 assess the possibility of applying exemptions pursuant to § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) r). This is also the responsibility of that legal person for any non-publication of a contract to which an exemption under Section 3 (3) cannot be applied. Article 4 (1) (a) r). It is proposed that this responsibility be addressed and that the institution concerned should be the Ministry of the Interior, as a gesture resort for security, critical infrastructure and cybersecurity issues. So much for the brief justification of my amendment, which is set out in the system under number 768, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u13	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. It is neither on the part of the appellant nor on the part of the rapporteur. The motion to return, as far as I know, didn't come up. That is why I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Michálek is the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare the amendment which is deposited in the system under the number of House document 1272. It is an amendment that, following discussions with the representatives of the energy sector to which the round table was held, there were some criticisms of the existing law, not our amendment. So it would be good to explicitly add exceptions to the law for security measures so that, if the entity carries out any security measures, such as the distribution of cameras or similar things, this information, for which there are particular safety reasons, does not have to be provided to applicants at their request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u15	Thank you. Mr Radovan Vích, Mr Radovan Vích, is next in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to rejoin the resolution of the Defence Committee, which contains amendments and which is designated as House Press 50/10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u17	Thank you. Next, Mr Adam Kalous is entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u18	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the two written amendments to House press number 50, the part concerning the register of contracts. Firstly, it is a written amendment under number 1117, including a statement of reasons. Since a few months have passed since the general debate, in which I have spoken and described the amendment, I would simply recall what this is about and that the exemption from the obligation to publish contracts for firms whose securities have been admitted to trading on a regulated market or a European regulated market has been abolished. For example, these are companies of České dráhy, ČEZ, ČEPS, ČD Cargo, Prague gasworks and so on. In practice, it would appear that these companies will not have to publish normal business contracts related to their business or contracts relating to critical infrastructure elements, but will have to publish, for example, marketing contracts, or sponsorship contracts, legal services contracts, consultancy contracts and the like. Businesses that publish today in the register of contracts, such as Budějovický Budvar, Forests of the Czech Republic, Aeroholding, will not intervene in any way. Secondly, I sign up for a written amendment under number 2097. In my opinion, this amendment reflects the requirements of military enterprises to refine safety and defence exemptions in accordance with the text of the Constitution while maintaining public control over military enterprises in a regime that does not endanger security or their legitimate commercial interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u19	Thank you, too. Another in the detailed debate is Mr Bartošek, Mrs Černochová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the general debate, I have justified the amendment that I have read. I now formally sign up for his number. It is the number of the 768 amendment concerning the House press 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u21	Thank you. Mrs Černochová is enrolled in a detailed debate. After that, Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. I am signing up for the amendments that I have put into the system under number 1823, 1824.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u23	Thank you for the quick sign-in. Mr Chvojka, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I have already justified my amendment, therefore only in a nutshell, the resumé. Let's wait 106, with its amendment, on government legislation. Let's not make a mistake in this important law. This amendment has number 2109. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u25	Thank you. Another Mr Luzar, then Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the increased efforts and possibilities of the OCR system for our informatics, I was able to convert the paper document into electronic form and insert it into the system. So I will not have to burden you with reading the four-page elaborate, and I will just refer to 2114, which contains this amendment. It will, of course, be handed over in paper form. And my second amendment to this press has a number of 601, which I am referring to here. It returns, in the event of the opening of this law - as we have opened it with this change - to extend the range of those who are obliged to publish contracts, to non-profit, contribution and other organisations that receive more than CZK 2 million a year from the state of any subsidy. This proposal by KSČM has already been submitted in the discussion of this law in the last parliamentary term and I firmly believe that you will support it after experience with these organisations and with opaque funding, which has often been presented in the media. So thank you for your attention and I believe in support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u27	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, then Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u28	Thank you. I will follow up on what I said in the general debate when I justified my amendment, which is under number 1124, because it was a compromise that was quite difficult here two years ago, a compromise that I think is reasonable, and at this point in time to disturb this possibility of some protection for companies with the state's participation, or rather. I don't think the public sector is ideal. I also say this as a person who had experience with practical functioning e.g. the national company Budvar, so even these situations cover this amendment of mine. So I'm applying to him here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u29	Thank you. Mr Martínek, Mr Ondráček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to sign up for my amendments under 1653 and 1654. These are simple amendments which are duly justified. I have already justified them in the debate last time. It is de facto a correction of the legislative technical deficiencies of the existing law. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u31	Thank you. Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I will read my proposal. Given the way in which the general debate took place, when, in essence, I can say, I fully agree with Mr Bartošek's speech, so I will take the liberty of reading the amendment, which is effective - Art. 4: This law shall take effect on the first day of the ninth calendar month following the date of its publication. I'm making it quite simple. There is a certain political handshake of the ANO and Pirates movement that, if some amendments were not adopted, which have been sufficiently justified by colleagues here and which threaten the security of the Czech Republic with critical infrastructure, so that we have sufficient time to adopt legislative measures to prevent this from becoming a threat. So an extension of five months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u33	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anybody, I'm ending a detailed debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. For the plaintiff, President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for your cooperation in the preparation and amendments on this important step. I think that the Chamber of Deputies will thus clearly show that it is on the side of transparency that we will be able to resolve the rest that has taken place in the last parliamentary term. I recall that many of the issues that have been raised here in the debate have already been dealt with by the amendments that have been adopted on the Guarantee Committee, so I refer to the negotiations on the Guarantee Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u35	Thank you. The rapporteur is also interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u36	Hello. I would just sum up that 14 amendments were tabled in a detailed debate. I think that committee discussions were quite difficult. It has been assigned to many committees and has been very often interrupted, but I think most of the things we talk about are already covered in legislation, so I recommend reading the explanatory reports, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-001-006.u37	Thank you. No proposals that they could now vote on at second reading have been tabled. I therefore conclude the second reading of this proposal and thank everyone. And I'm opening a point.
