ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u1	237. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their drawing shall then take place. A total of seven responses were submitted on the agenda of the 30th meeting to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And so we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. We are the first to have an interview here when Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová responded to Mr Stanislav Blaha's interpellation on the conflict of interests of an internal audit officer. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 468. I am therefore opening the debate to see if Mr Stanislav Blaha is here. Yes, please, I'm sorry. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And the secretary is here, too. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Madam Secretary, I interviewed you a few weeks ago in connection with the General Data Protection Regulation, which we all quite intimately know as GDPR. This introduces a new obligation for some personal data controllers and processors to introduce a new obligation on the data protection officer. The obligation also applies to cities, municipalities and some of their contribution organisations. I am also the mayor of the town of Uherské Hradiště, apart from the MP. I know that not only our people from the Internal Audit Department, but also many other cities have since the beginning of the preparatory process for the validity of GDPR have been part of the groups that have been dealing with the Office's readiness for this regulation. Until the time when the obligation to appoint an officer appeared, these departments were the ones who managed the entire process of implementing individual measures so that they were ready for GDPR. The knowledge to be held by the delegate shall to a large extent be covered by the requirements for the position of internal auditor. For both positions, knowledge of the organisation process or identification of risks within the authorities is important. Moreover, they work closely together because their work is mainly methodical and preventive. All of these reasons led to this new position being placed quite logically on the Internal Audit Service. This has been the way we have worked for several months, and practice has confirmed that this arrangement is advantageous given the organisation of work, sharing experience and knowledge. I also consider it important that, when establishing an officer's post and his inclusion in the internal audit services, the effectiveness of the general regulation was not contrary to the Ministry of the Interior's methodology. [[9.10 hours]] Unfortunately, the functioning of the internal audit function is no longer possible from 21 September 2018. After all, we should make the work easier for the people in office rather than swamp them with regulations that complicate their work. Especially when the call for change comes directly from these authorities. I therefore want to ask you again and ask whether the Ministry of Finance would, after all, plan to amend and amend its position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u3	Thank you. I now call on the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to express herself. Please take your word for it, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the separation of internal auditor functions and the Data Protection Officer was the subject of expert discussions between representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Office for Personal Data Protection. The conclusions are then reflected in the opinion issued by the Ministry of Finance. The legislation guarantees the internal auditor and data protection officer an independent position and excludes conflicts of interest. This independence is guaranteed for these functions separately. For the internal auditor, the Financial Control Act, the Data Protection Officer, the General Data Protection Regulation. In the event of their merger, the requirement to ensure independence will not be fulfilled for either of them. In the event of a merger of an internal auditor and a data protection officer, the controller shall be in conflict of interest because, as an internal auditor, he performs tasks for which he processes personal data to a large extent and his activities should be subject to an independent and objective assessment of the data protection officer. The same applies to the independence of the internal auditor. The internal auditor shall independently review the processes within the municipality. The personal data protection officer's activities should also be investigated by an internal auditor. If the duties of the delegate and the internal auditor are merged, the verification of the internal auditor shall not be objective and shall not be independent. The independence of the delegate and the internal auditor cannot be guaranteed if they are assigned to the same department, i.e. they are subject to the same superior. Where a person other than an internal auditor performs the duties of the delegate, nothing shall prevent the delegate from being organised outside the Internal Audit Service in order to ensure the independence of both functions. The incompatibility of the function of the Data Protection Officer and the Internal Auditor shall apply only to public authorities which have an obligation to establish an internal audit function. Only municipalities over 15,000 inhabitants have this obligation. The total number of municipalities is 88 municipalities. The municipalities over 15,000 inhabitants are organized into several departments and manage budgets that exceed CZK 500 million. Smaller municipalities in this category generally provide an internal audit function through a single employee. The staff member should carry out an audit in the municipality and provide assurances on the efficient, cost-effective and efficient management of public funds. It is unthinkable that his activities should be replaced by the performance of the duties of the Data Protection Officer. The reports on the results of the financial controls for 2018 show that where the performance of the agenda for personal data protection and internal audit is combined, the tasks of the delegate are performed at the expense of the internal audit. There are even cases where the Internal Audit Service does not effectively carry out the audit work. I would therefore disagree with your claim that the position of Data Protection Officer and Internal Auditor is complementary and greatly enhances the efficiency and speed of the work done. In view of the above, I would only like to confirm the opinion already issued by the Ministry of Finance that the function of Data Protection Officer and Internal Auditor cannot be merged and that the Data Protection Officer should not be included in the Internal Audit Service. I conclude by saying that the Ministry of Finance, given what I have just said, cannot submit an amendment to the Financial Control Act, which would allow internal auditors to perform the duties of trustee, because this would be contrary to the relevant regulation of the European Union, which requires that an independent position be ensured by the Data Protection Officer. I am sorry, but I cannot change my position in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u5	Thank you. And Mr Stanislav Blaha wishes to respond. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, but it's just the opinion of the office, an official who hasn't worked in practice in his life, he's taken away from reality. I'll describe the situation to you if we're talking about using the workforce. Of course, when implementing personal data protection control, the controller is more busy than during the process, when everything is already set up and basically oversees how the processes he has set up previously work. This means that at the beginning he is fully busy, later his work time would be used only partially for this activity. And you can't hire anyone part-time because you can't keep good people busy. Of course, then, if we talk about whether the capacity can be used for other activities within the Bureau, the internal audit is the closest thing that the officer can control. Of course, he must have all the right to do so. If we're talking about controlling the one single agenda that you're talking about here, that's an officer's agenda, which, of course, can normally be outsourced. This can really be controlled by someone other than a city official, that is, from the internal audit department. I would really ask you to try to think about it, just set rules that are insurmountable. If we are talking about the fact that audits are not carried out, I want to tell you and I guarantee that in Uherské Hradiště, but also in other cities like this, the position has been newly established and a new employee has been recruited. So the internal audit is actually not limited in its activities because it continues to carry out its work as it has been. It's just that there had to be a new job here. Once again, in the beginning, certainly busy up to the full time of the job. Later, I believe that the agenda, because all processes will be set, will be reduced and it would be very useful to use its capacity for work for the Office and for what it actually manages and can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u7	Madam Secretary, do you wish to respond? Yes. So, Madam Secretary, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I understand, honourable Member. I've been in public administration my whole life, and I know what just needs to be dealt with in this particular practice. But if you're asking me such specific questions, I have to answer you in terms of legal regulations. Nota bene, as regards GDPR, or the protection of personal data, it is also regulated by the European Union directive. So I can't tell you anything but what matches the letter of the law. You can't transfer because the superior, or the manager, is dealing with a specific problem in the particular department you're asking about. And basically, he wants to solve it in person, and he wants to have a cover somewhere from the higher organs, he wants to have a thumb to do it this way. But he won't. He just doesn't get it. I am clearly saying that these are positions that are independent of each other, where impartiality must simply be ensured, and I cannot give an inch, nor can I initiate any legislation that puts this into conflict. So I just can't do this. And if he sets up processes there and ensures impartiality, of course, the question is his own management decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u9	So, yes. And Mr Stanislav Blaha wishes to respond. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u10	I'm really not gonna extend it anymore. I think it's good if we just try to sit down and look at these things in particular. But I just want to say, the Ministry of Finance's position is one thing. It may have slipped, but I've already said it here today. We, of course, consulted the Ministry of the Interior when establishing the position and discussing where it should be included within the Office, and we have a written opinion that this is possible. Later came the Ministry of Finance's opinion and the Ministry of the Interior adapted to this. So even in this regard, the situation is very difficult for us. In any case, thank you for the answers, and I think we're gonna be able to explain it to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u11	I ask the Minister if he wishes to respond. You don't want to react. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mr Stanislav Blaha what resolution you are proposing to the Chamber of Deputies for this reply, or whether you are proposing a resolution at all. You're not suggesting. Okay, thank you, and I'm done with this interview. Let's get down to business. Minister for Agriculture Miroslav Toman responded to Mrs Veronika Vrecionová's interview on the overview of the beneficiaries of direct area payments. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 471. But now I'm going to see if there's an MP Veronika Vrecionová here. I saw her a while ago, but she's not here right now, so I'm putting off this interpelation in that case. We have another interview here, when former Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation with regard to the publication of judgments on the Internet. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 477. I'm starting a debate, or I wanted to start a debate, but... yeah, you're here, okay. I see you, so I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by interpelling the publication of judgments on the Internet. I think that this will be quite constructive, because we discussed this issue at the subcommittee meeting, which was not public, so the sole purpose of my intervention is to make sure with the Minister that the promises that were actually made at the subcommittee meeting apply, which means that the anonymity instrument and the modification of the instructions governing publication in the Regional Courts in the C agenda will be implemented on 1 January. 1. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u13	So now I call on the Minister to respond. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to answer this question with one word: everything is true as you have agreed with the predecessor, Dr Kněžínek. I refer to the written text of 29. 5. and I assure you that the decisions of the Supreme, Regional and District Courts are actually being published by registering the judicial decisions of the Supreme and Regional Courts of the Ministry of Justice. The caselaw in which decisions are included on the basis of instruction 20 of 2002 governing the procedure for the registration and inclusion of decisions of district, regional and supreme courts in the electronic register system of judicial caselaw. We are aware that only a few thousand decisions have been put into the system since its inception, since the instructions require the publication of significant decisions in particular from the point of view of the court. Then there was a round table meeting with Mrs. Ombudswoman Šabatová. That happened on the 28th. 2nd year this year. The situation has been re-evaluated and it has been concluded that the best way to achieve the objective of publishing as many decisions as possible is to progressively expand the publication agenda. We have an action plan for this, which we have undertaken to publish decisions on one judicial agenda by the end of 2020. That's probably your question, if that'll satisfy you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u15	I ask the honourable Member if he wishes to speak. You don't want to get out. If no one else has spoken, I will conclude the debate and ask Mr Jakub Michálek again, such as the motion for a resolution or whether you are proposing a resolution at all. You're not suggesting, okay. So I'm done with this interpellation. I will also read one apology and he is a Member of Dominik Feri. He apologizes until 11:00 today for work reasons. We'll proceed to another interpellation, which is for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation with the Czech Government on the absurd situation in the area of execution. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 478. Initiating debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u16	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, my interpellation concerned the problematic situation that people in execution are not motivated to work in today's system. Unfortunately, that's still the case. Here is a particular quoted example from the i-radio: You live with a partner and two young children in a rental apartment in Cheb. You're both out of a job, and you're out of a job. You'll get a job offer for 30 grand. That's rude. Will you accept it? If you do, you won't get any better. While you do not earn anything in the original situation, you are entitled to welfare benefits and benefits in material distress. After payment of the rent, there will be CZK 9,450 for household expenses. Once you start working, the doses will decrease and the execution will increase. On receiving 30 thousand. The gross family will remain 9,452 crowns, or 2 crowns more than when you do nothing. I wanted to thank the Government for responding to this interpelation and for the fact that Minister Kněžínek has actually tabled an amendment to the regulation that regulates the maximum amount from which the execution without limitation is to be deducted. This increase will, of course, apply a third rule, so debtors are motivated to work and are motivated to improve themselves. From 1. 6. 2019 takes effect from the date of entry into force of Government Regulation No. 91/2019 Sb., so the amount from which you can knock down the execution, increases from 15 thousand. approximately 30 thousand. Crowns. So I wanted to thank you for this. However, I would like to ask the relevant ministries, in particular the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to deal more intensively with this issue and to analyse whether the system is really already set up so that people are motivated to work and that they are motivated to accept better evaluated work. I believe that if we insist on the Institute's collapsing from a certain amount without limitation, the debtors will not be motivated to accept a better-respected job. I therefore give consideration to the government to address this issue and come up with its own proposal for a solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u17	If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mr Jakub Michálek whether he is proposing a resolution. Nothing, okay, I'm done with the interpellation. Next, I'll read two apologies. Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík apologizes from 9 to 14.30 hours for work reasons and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Mr Tomáš Hanzel apologizes until 14 hours for work reasons. We will now proceed to the next interpellation. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mrs Veronika Vrecionová's interview on land and other land taxation. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 481. Initiating debate. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u18	Good morning. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, Madam Secretary. I will try very briefly, just so my colleagues know what I'm talking about, to sum up the substance of my written interpelation. On 1 January 2017, the Financial Administration issued information on the application of the relevant provisions on real estate tax as amended, which had a negative impact on tens of thousands of landowners. This concerns, in particular, the owners of agricultural land, where part of these parcels falls within the category of other areas which cannot be used in any way. The property tax on such land is higher than the agricultural land, for example. However, these are often areas that contribute to the diversity of the landscape, serve to retain water in the landscape, or create space for the shelter of game and other animals. Their positive role on the landscape ecosystem is so indisputable. The information was intended to unify the Financial Administration's procedure, but it had an unnecessary and significant negative impact on the landowners. I would like to draw attention to the fact that then a number of agricultural landowners or farmers, as a result of this, even pierced these landscape elements in order to turn them into agricultural land and pay less tax, which, on the one hand, is not surprising. But I think we'll all feel the negative effects in the dry season, and it's not in our interest at all. I'm gonna cut this short. I would also like to say that we, in fact, have already discussed this with the Minister on the agricultural committee in the autumn of last year. In fact, both Minister Schillerová and Minister Toman agreed that this was a problem and promised a solution. My secretary and I talked about it later, and I was still verbally interpelling. And actually, my doubts were only because it seemed to me that the process was taking a very long time. I therefore disagreed with the reply, where the Minister replied to my written interview that he would work on the amendment so that it would be implemented on 1 January 2020. And I was worried if this was even real enough to make it. I will ask the Minister very much now - and of course I know that in the meantime, the government has already discussed this draft on Monday, but I have already issued this negative opinion. But I'd like to use this interview today just to get the Minister here to say on the microphone, if necessary, that we all agree that we will try to run this through the legislative process as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u19	Yes, thank you. And now the Minister wishes to respond. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I will explain what is going on so that everyone here understands. The problem is that the arable land is taxed at some rate. And then we have so-called other areas that are taxed at a different rate on real estate tax, which is higher. And that's a fact that hasn't changed in years. And as digitization progressed and digitization progressed by the cadastral office, the Financial Administration is actually getting more detailed information on where the arable land is and where the other area is. I call it business ties. That means what these farmers, and that's what this is all about, they're taxing the higher rate. And of course by that - that is, there has not changed any legislation. There has not changed any approach to taxation, but it has changed that The financial administration has more targeted information and, of course, started to tax these ties here at the higher rate. And that created the whole problem. We started dealing with this last year, when I realized the problems were here. They started writing to me by farmers, they turned to me by various representatives of the farmers' association, the Agrarian Chamber, and that's when we all met, those who came to point it out, of course we met with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment, and we agreed that we couldn't make a simple adjustment, like some representatives demanded that we introduce the liberation of other areas, because we would also free all the different developers who have a courtyard at apartment houses and so on. That's just not possible. Plus, they're municipal revenues, so it would be a big slump. So we have created a working group from representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the General Financial Directorate and the Ministry of Agriculture, and we have prepared legislation that frees these ties with regard to the status of landscape elements, environmental protection, water retention in the landscape, we have defined what is actually being asked de facto, so that we can actually meet the merit of the problem and not everyone. Because that would be wrong. We've prepared the legislation. It took a little while, it's not that simple to define it, to discuss it, to just consider it all. So I took advantage of the carrier that was, and that was the rate package that the government was discussing on Monday, and I read directly in line with the Minister of Agriculture who supported me there, and I read this amendment into the rate package, and the government approved it on Monday. So it's headed this way to you, the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u21	I am now asking the honourable Member - you do not wish to respond. If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. Yeah, I'll see if anyone else wants to get off. He doesn't. So if no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. And I am asking now, Mrs Veronika Vrecionová, what resolution do you propose or... Madam, I am just asking you: are you proposing a resolution? No. So we can end this interpelation. We now have another interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's intervention on the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 482. I'm opening the debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, given the absence of the Prime Minister, I would like to propose a resolution, and this should be interrupted in the present -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u23	Well, we don't need a resolution. Normally, suggest as a suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u24	Yes, that means, I suggest that the interpellation be interrupted until the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u25	However, we must vote on this proposal. So I'll call the Members to the Chamber. [[Gong.]] Yes, we have an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Log in again with your voting cards. [[Gong.]] I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. Mrs Věra Kovářová proposes that the discussion of her intervention be interrupted in the presence of the Prime Minister, which may, of course, also be in the next meeting. So it's not like there's a break. I'm opening the vote. Who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against it? Voting order number 288: 99 Members registered, for 98, against no one. The result: the proposal has been accepted, so your interpellation is hereby interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. Now, here's the last written interview we're going to be discussing. Former Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek replied to Mr Stanislav Blaha's interview on the regulation of the Act on Conflict of Interests and the control of the activities of public officials. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 489. Initiating debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u26	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the speech concerns the law on conflict of interest, concerning which I also interviewed the Minister of Justice Kněžínek in writing a few weeks ago. In addition to the initiation and termination of the policy function, this Act also provides for an obligation to submit an exit and entry notification on property ratios. In my opinion, however, what the law no longer thinks and does not take into account is the fact that in many cases the mandate is defended and the politician continues his work. The entry notification shall be identical to the exit notification in such a case. Here I would like to point out that, in addition to these two, politicians have an obligation to submit a third, continuous announcement every year until 30 June. I also know from the experience of municipal policy that many of my colleagues in smaller municipalities do not know about all the obligations in connection with this law and do not have a person to help them orient themselves in them. They often forget to file a notice, file it wrong or late, and the more different kinds of notifications they're forced to file, the more the chance increases that they're in doubt and commit a misdemeanor. I would also like to remind you that the government's pre-election promises included a reduction in administration, a clarification and simplification of some paperwork processes that people sometimes have to undergo just because they are anchored somewhere, while their sense has vanished long ago. Madam Secretary, your predecessor said in his reply that the Ministry does not plan changes because this gives him a better overview of the assets of the officials for each parliamentary term separately. Last year, some of us made three announcements. The Ministry has no doubt an overview of more than great. I would therefore like to ask whether it would be worth considering making an exception at least to those who continue to perform their duties. Their output and input announcements are really almost identical, there is no room for a change in property ratios. In order to compare the term of office, it is sufficient to look at the output announcements of these politicians. And the checks also help the above-mentioned interim notifications, which everyone must submit every year without exception. I would hate for the time spent on paperwork to outweigh the time we spend working for people, as it has happened for example. in health care. In my opinion, doctors are an example of an area that has been severely affected by no one's uncontrolled obligation to write papers in order to write papers. I guess I don't have to talk too much about what it does with their motivation and their desire to work. Madam Secretary, please reconsider adjusting the obligation to submit an exit and entry notification for those of us who continue to serve. I believe that more of us will really appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u27	So let me see - Minister Marie Benešová wishes to respond. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u28	Dear Members, Mr Blaha, I can only refer to what has already been said and what has been written to you by my predecessor, Dr Kněžínek. Unfortunately, the only instrument of this control is the submission of input and output notifications for individual functions performed under the Conflict of Interest Act and it is therefore still valid and it is possible to monitor and determine with certainty the development of the property ratios of a public official. There is a clear starting line and then the output at the end when the functionary ends. We know what you recommended. I have also called a brief meeting for this, and I believe that the problems that can be solved can only be solved by a methodical interpretation and really is not sufficient here, virtually. There's no need to take further action here. So the legislative regulation you're offering is still not considered appropriate and appropriate by the Justice Department. That's probably the problem you're putting in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u29	Thank you. I'll ask the Chamber of Deputies for some peace. And the MP, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u30	Well, I'd like to thank the Minister for her answer. I'm not necessarily calling for a change in legislation, some legislation. I'm really just trying to make sense win. Just the mayor who continues his duties doesn't need to serve output and input when he gives it every year on a continuous basis and only after he hasn't been re-elected can submit output. In my opinion, the officials involved in the inspection have sufficient information at their disposal. So thank you for doing this in any way, and of course I will be very closely monitoring it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u31	So I will now look around to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. I do not see interest, so if no one else is reporting, I am ending the debate. I am now asking Mr Stanislav Blaha what resolution he is proposing or whether you are proposing. You are not proposing a resolution. Then I'm done. Thank you and I note that we have stopped discussing the responses to the written interpelations of Members for today. Now, since we've exhausted, I'm just going to assume that yesterday, Vice-President Pikal finished yesterday's meeting by saying that we would have followed up on Thursday after the written interviews just by discussing yesterday's extraordinary meeting. So the situation isn't completely clarified. I would like to ask the presidents of the MPs to come up to me, so that we can see how we are going to proceed and what they are proposing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of the 30th meeting, we continue at 11 o'clock, and I call a political grémium to 9.50. I ask the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chairs of the Members' Clubs to room 120.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we proceed, I would like to introduce you to the conclusions of the Gremium. So now the 30th meeting will continue, where there will first be room for any proposals to change the agenda, then we will discuss the first item from the first reading block and then we will interrupt the meeting and continue the 31st meeting, with the afternoon sure to reach paragraph 238, that is oral questioning. Before I go on, I'm going to introduce you to your apologies. Mr Venhoda apologizes to us from 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Kořanová apologises to us between 15.30 and 21 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Dvořák apologizes for today's meeting from 9 to 10 o'clock for health reasons, Mrs Černochová apologises to us for the whole day of the hearing, for reasons of work - this is the correction of the apology, Mrs Pěnčíková apologises - no, sorry, that is something else. Mr Onderka apologizes - no, he cancels his apology. Mr Volný Lubomír apologizes to us from 10 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Robert králíček apologises to us between 14 and 19 p.m. for reasons of work, Mr Kaňkovský apologizes to us between 10 and 12 p.m. for reasons of work, Mr Strýček's apologies to us between 15 and 18 p.m. and Mrs Balaštíková apologizes to us between 11 and 13 p.m. for reasons of work, Mr Čižinský apologizes to us between 11 and 13 p.m. and also for reasons of work. Thank you. Now, I would like to ask if there are proposals to change the agenda. Yes, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for all four translators, that is, besides me, Kateřina Valachová, Jan Bartošek, Lukáš Kolářík, and I presume for their clubs, for a fixed point No. 122, print 456, amendment to the Civil Code - this is the solution to child debt - on Wednesday 5. 6. as the second point of the afternoon for the already fixed item of Minister Brabec, paragraph No. 43. I'll ask for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-30-ps2017-030-03-001-237.u35	That's Wednesday, 5. 6th as the second point, in the afternoon... (The Messenger. Nacher: Afternoon, print 456.) Print 456. Thank you. Are there any other proposals to change the show? It's not like that. So now we're going to vote. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. just in case. Yes, someone else is coming. So I repeat, we're going to vote on point 122, print 456, on Wednesday 5. 6. as the second point of the afternoon behind the already firmly placed point. Mr. Ambassador, I'm just asking for clarification - there are already two points there, so for the one... among them. [[Agreed.]] Yeah, okay. In that case, I shall begin the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote No. 289, 141 Members and Members are registered, for 128, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we've changed our programme and we're going to continue, so that we should now focus on the points from the first reading block, which is the point.
