ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-013-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 340/2006 Coll., on the Activities of Occupational Pensions Institutions, as amended (the House Press 297/ - First Reading) Under the authority of the government, the press was to mention Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, but here I have another mandate, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček instructs Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek to represent Minister Alena Schillerová. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-013-036.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's probably gonna be a little easier now, because this law, this government amendment to the Act on the Activities of Occupational Pensions Institutions, is basically a pure transposition. I can say that the 2006 law itself, which is now proposed to be amended, is somewhat unwelcome in the Czech legal system. The Czech Republic did not accept it until after the judgment of the European Court of Justice, according to which it was therefore stated that although the Czech Republic does not have an occupational pension scheme in place at all, it is still obliged to adopt it. It was then resolved by saying that these institutions must not settle in the Czech Republic. This is still true, but if the Czech Republic had an obligation to adopt this law and was sentenced to its adoption by the European Court of Justice, it is, of course, obliged to take into account further developments in European legislation. It is therefore now the transposition of the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 2016 into a system which does not work in the Czech Republic and is not currently being implemented, it introduces an adjustment to the system of administration and management of these institutions of occupational retirement provision, remuneration policy, new information obligations towards participants in this insurance and the possibility of cross-border transfers of pension plans. As I said before, it's a pure transposition. Unfortunately, at the same time, I must say that the transposition period for adopting this legislation has already expired in vain in January of this year. For all these reasons, please quickly discuss this otherwise non-controversial proposal, which will actually bring no changes to the real functioning of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-013-036.u3	So I thank the Minister and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Řehounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-013-036.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been going over my notes here, and perhaps I will add to the extent of Minister Kněžínek that we had this item on the agenda sometime in the second quarter of last year, when he was then expelled from the meeting. That means the January deadline has passed in vain for the second time now. That is why I will join us in discussing this as soon as possible, and I will therefore allow myself in a detailed debate to read, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, that we will reduce the deadline for committee discussions from 60 to 30 days. Otherwise, I really think that there is no need to add anything to the content of the transposition law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-013-036.u5	Yes, thank you, I'm reflecting on your proposal, so shortening the deadline for a 30-day hearing. Okay. So I am now opening up a general debate, where I do not have any application, so I will see if anyone is applying. No one's coming forward, so I'm ending the general debate. I ask Mr Řehounek and the Minister if they are interested in final words. Interested? You're not interested in final words. So we will now consider the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Anybody else suggesting something? No, so we'll proceed to the vote. So I'll reengage and wait for a moment... Well, I think most of the Members are here. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of ordering the proposal to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees, press the button. Who's against it? In the vote number 107, 138 Members registered, for 120, against 0. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. So I ask again in plenary whether anyone has a proposal to order this proposal to another committee. I don't see a suggestion. So now we will vote on the rapporteur's proposal for the first reading of Mr Jan Řehounek, who proposes that we reduce the time to discuss this law in committee from 60 days by 30 days, i.e. to 30 days. We will vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, press the button. [[Question from the diaper.]] Shortcuts, yes. Who's against it? In voting number 108 registered 138 Members, for 83, against 18. The proposal was adopted, so the committee will be reduced by 30 days. This concludes the discussion of this press for the moment. So let's get to the next press. This is about
