ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u1	10. The draft law amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 200/6/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. His resolution was delivered as House Press 200/7. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us, and I ask that Mr Patrik Nacher speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendment tabled. [[Surprised.]] Mr Nacher - for the appellant to comment on the Senate proposal. Already. Or you can let it go, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u2	I see. Have a nice evening, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't even count on being challenged like this because I already told mine. I performed in the Senate and in all three readings. From the beginning, I have been in favour of the state not ordering anyone to be open, how and why. This division itself, when it comes to holidays, when it is open and when it is closed, I think it has no logic whatsoever, as does the border of 200 meters, as well as the character of the shops where it is open. On the other hand, I honour the fact that this Chamber of Deputies has already voted on this once, so that was my reason why I came up with this proposal to remove only wholesalers, where the rule with the holidays does not make any sense, because so-called. shopping tourism does not happen there, because only businessmen or other traders can buy there, who supply the very operations that can be opened under the law. That means that's why. And then, when you remember, I asked all my colleagues, even those who disagree, to let it pass through the first reading precisely so that there would not be any proposals on the one hand to abolish the law as a whole, or to extend it to other holidays, Saturdays, Sundays, etc. You didn't hear me, in the end, the motion to abolish the bill as a whole came here in the House, and now from the Senate. I continue to separate my personal view from the view adopted here by the Chamber of Deputies or the club of the ANO movement, and on this I have nothing to change. We've just voted on this once before, though I think it's mine, and it doesn't seem fair to me to vote on the same second time. That's why there's the proposal with the wholesalers, and I'll be glad if the House supports the exemption, so that at least it has some elemental logic. Otherwise, I'm ready to take part in the debate or respond to some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u3	I, too, thank you, and now I ask the senator to take the floor and present to us the Senate proposal. As far as factual remarks are concerned, I have not yet opened the debate, so I cannot accept them yet. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I am before you with a request to support the amendment adopted by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the amendment proposed by you. 223/2016 Sb. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] As has already been said here, the amendment you approved is about abolishing the sales ban on other wholesale holidays. We agreed in the Senate that the novel wasn't bad, and it was pretty easy. But we have considered the purpose of this law as a whole. This law, i.e. the ban on sales in stores of more than 200 square metres at some state holidays, may have made sense at the time of its creation. I do not want to discuss the partial imperfections of this law here, which means that it prohibits the sale of only some state holidays, creating quite a bit of chaos, and that it is not so obvious in line with what the MP said in front of me, why 200 square meters. In my opinion, the objectives of the original translators were essentially two: to protect employees of these shops from the need to work on public holidays, to limit the possibility of spending leisure mainly for families in shopping centres. And this is where I'd like to stop by. As an object of interest of legislators -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u5	Senator, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my fellow Members for more peace so that we can properly question the Senate's envoys. I'm asking for peace and thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u6	As an object of interest of legislators and protected person, the employee of the sales area has become more than 200 square metres. But why aren't we interested in the employees in the smaller shops? Indeed, they are not just family members, as was claimed in the adoption of the law. Are all employees really so unhappy with the fact that they have to, would they have to go to work on public holidays? I don't think so. The situation on the labour market has changed significantly since the time the law was passed. The position of employees is significantly stronger. Employees can agree to a large extent who will go to work on the holiday and who will stay home with their family. A small part of the employees took advantage of the holiday work to increase their income, or to obtain a spare leave with the option of choosing it on a normal working day. And why just business employees? I don't want to rob you of your precious time with a list of professions that they have to do on holiday anyway, and believe that list is really long. Just at random, if I'm completely out of the army, security forces, health care and transportation of all kinds, shouldn't we ban all sports matches? After all, a wide group of organizers and other staff must work alongside athletes. Shouldn't we ban all cultural performances? It's an equivalent of sports. Shouldn't we ban the operation of cinemas, fitness and wellness centres, restaurants and similar facilities? After all, it is a huge number of employees who also have to work on public holidays. [[20.40 hours]] What's more? We are creating another problem here, or another source of chaos. Today most shopping centers are not only about shops, but there are also cinemas, fitness centers, wellness centers and restaurants. Someone can be open, somebody is forbidden by law. In conclusion, I have kept the most important, and that is the efforts of the legislators, and it does not matter at all whether they are past, us present or future, the efforts to raise our fellow citizens. Is it really us, this group of 281 members, so enlightened that we know better than everyone else what people do on public holidays? Personally, and with me, most senators don't think so. Therefore, I would ask you to allow the owners and operators of all shops to decide when they will be open and when they will be closed, the employees of these shops, to agree among themselves how they will arrange the necessary occupation of the shift, and the citizens of this state, freely decide how they will spend their personal time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u7	Thank you very much, too. And now, please, if the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, wishes to comment on this proposal. [[I don't want to.]] He doesn't want to. In that case, I am opening a debate in which I have four applications at the moment. First of all, Mr Mihola, whom I am asking for a microphone. Before they arrive, I will introduce you to Mr Ferjenčík's apology for personal reasons until the end of the meeting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u8	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Looks like we're not gonna be able to vote this perennial today. I'd have a little improvement idea. I think both versions are wrong, so let's throw them in the trash and go home. And it will be resolved and we will move on. In a few sentences, I have to respond to why I think so. I won't hold back any more arguments. I think we've been through this so many times, in the last term, in this parliamentary term, that anyone who wanted to hear, heard who didn't want to hear, you just can't convince anything at all, and he's always gonna be relentless. But to the Senator who presented the version here to make this bill disappear completely, I would say, "Please, Senator, through, I must, too, Mr President, when you speak - at the time of its inception, perhaps this proposal was justified. Looks like it's been a hundred years since the Lord's suggestion, and now after a hundred years, we've gotten to him and there have been other times. It's really been a few years. A few years. Even recently, the head of the members of the ANO movement said that it needed some distance to the evaluation, and somehow I still haven't seen the evaluation anywhere, I haven't heard it. Than there were some notes that weren't finally addressed, except for a few of us who were trying to come up with a solution to make the chaos word go away. So I really don't understand this thesis at all. I would add that this proposal, which is now in force, came out of the Senate with all due respect, from your colleagues. Maybe some of them are sitting there. Do you even know, Senator? So, senate product, please. And as for these constant arguments that somebody wants to impose on somebody. So I'm, uh, look at these tapes, he's never used a word like a ban, a warrant, or I don't know what. Or imposing something on someone. But these words kept falling from the critics. I have used the maximum word restriction or regulation, in connection with the fact that I believe that there are days when the economy and shopping just might not be the first place. I am curious about the approach of fellow Members from coalition social democracy and also from the tolerating KSČM. Since we had a similar view in the last parliamentary term, I would assume that they were able to force within the government that - if it was important to them. Or it turns out that we've been debating for days and hours here, and actually useless, because then somebody stomps or comes up with some other idea, and everything is completely different, as we see in the Senate now after a few years. I therefore remain in the position that I believe with my KDU-ČSL colleagues, and I believe that not only KDU-ČSL, that even shopkeepers have the right to spend their holidays with their families. You know, we're really discussing this as if we had 140 of those holidays. We have 14 in 13 days, for God's sake. I don't really know - it doesn't work on the economy. All these debates have been resolved. Nobody came up with that, that would be the first inch headlines and arguments about how much it hurts the economy. It doesn't hurt because people buy it another time. That's not really happening at all. And also another odd argument, I think it was the senator, or someone else used it, that a lot of other professions. But there are things that are necessary, and there are things that just have to work every time. We understand that. And they can't go to a dentist or a lady's hairdresser anytime they remember. So I think the public holidays are really something special. If I can do it from the cultural point of view, please, let's make complete liberalism. So whoever wants to celebrate Christmas whenever they want. I mean, you have to go shopping. New Year's Eve - to celebrate New Year's Silvestr. Let him go shopping, why stop it. We know he doesn't need it. And the biggest double of days, that's two and a half days, that's for Christmas. Please, does anyone really have this urge to go with a big shopping basket at svatý Štěpán's to Tesco? I don't think so. And the last thing I'm gonna mention. My colleague Nacher was moaning here, I remember it very well - the chaos! Of the 14 days, only eight are involved. How are these people, poor people, just supposed to know their way around it? Mrs Udženija from ODS also lamented - I say hello, she's not here - but I experienced it with her on a discussion show. And also President Kalousek, presently absent. So these arguments fell. None of these people have done anything to eliminate the chaos. So my conclusion is, we could have fixed it in order to really cover all the public holidays - and not so many - and there was no chaos, there was order at last and we enjoyed the holiday. It is precisely because we do not have to, but we can, as is the case in many other European countries. And another conclusion from that. If it turns out negative to the senators where it came from. Let's not make half-assed suggestions, let's not make half-assed suggestions here. Then it's dragging, it's almost unsolvable, or no one has a solution to it. So if we decide to do something like that, we decide to do it in one piece. It's either yes or no. I'm a Democrat, I'll submit to most, but the worst part here is halfway through. Because it's an endless discussion. I wish you a good decision and a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u9	Thank you. The proposal to go home will not be seen as a procedural proposal, but I will invite colleagues who are leaving to do so in peace. Your performance brought up five factual points. First is Mr Dolínek, then Mr Veselý. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u10	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I don't have a case against a colleague who spoke a moment ago, but a senator and a colleague named Nacher. Because they're trying to put it in a position that the law was adopted to keep people at home and not go shopping. But the law was passed for completely different reasons. He was accepted so there wouldn't have to be those salesmen who had to sell to these people. I'm not gonna tell anyone if they want to go shopping or not. Whether he should go into some kind of chain or whether he should go somewhere similar. But I'm telling the law that these people have protection so that those who work inside those shops can stay at home. There were also arguments that warehouses work, etc. That's possible, but there may not still be a big team of salesmen who have to deal with the customer, there may not be a lot of parking and other stuff. It's just gonna make the whole thing feel better and make it possible for those people to be home. [[20.50 hours]] And one more thing briefly. It is said that the law is wrong, that only some holidays. But how did it all start? It was suggested that all the holidays were designed 150 meters, not 200 meters, and finally the glenn passed originally. So let's not take advantage of the fact that there's been a glutton in this compromise and let's not say that the law is wrong. It's just that the downing was already wrong. And that is what Mr Mihola said very correctly - if it were to unite, it would improve much more, and these arguments cannot be used. So I strongly hope that common sense prevails so that people can stay home for the holidays and not have to board for the cashiers and other services in the shops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u11	Thank you. Mr Veselý now, Mr Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, by your means, I will respond to a colleague of Mihola, who asked if we are still consistent as ČSSD. I assure you, my colleague, we are continuum. We didn't vote for the House proposal anymore, we won't logically support the Senate at all, it just doesn't come out of the question, so we'll stay that way. Just to use the argument why - what do we have today? We have very low unemployment today. That's one thing. The second thing is that wages are rising. And what are people looking for today? They're looking for free time. Please, colleagues, try asking people today who will be offered 3,000 more, or in case of higher salaries, even 20,000 more, if those people are looking for a job for a salary. They won't. They're looking for free time. So we're aware of this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u13	Ambassador, I will interrupt you if I give you more time and ask the House for more peace. I can't hear you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u14	So people are looking mainly for jobs today, where, of course, they have a normal salary, but also some free time for their own self-realization. Please, let's not take it artificially. If that proposal, which Mr Mihola predicted, means that it would be a day off on more holidays, I would definitely support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u15	Thank you. Please, Mr Nacher, Mr Klaus will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u16	Thank you. I originally didn't want to use the actual ones - or the actual ones and react to every thing, but he's in the air there's some nonsense that will then sound like he's true. So I'd like to respond to a colleague of Mihola who doesn't listen to me at the moment, but he should, in my opinion, because he always makes some argument that no one has said, and then tries to justify that it isn't. Neither I nor the Senator here has argued for any economic reasons. No one said that. I didn't say it once. Pull it from first reading, second reading, third - nowhere. For economic reasons or influence on the economy, none of us has argued. That may be the case three or four years ago, but now no one has argued, so don't deny it. Don't disprove something that didn't sound. That's the first thing. Two. You said things were necessary and necessary. The other ones are the stores. I agree, but then even a visit to the restaurant is necessary. You decided from the table that the restaurant was supposed to be open. Like the pumps, the fitness centers, the multiplex, somewhere in the movies, in the theater, when you go to the pool - do you understand? Who's gonna determine that? There are also employees. A waitress has less rights than a saleswoman? That's not necessary either. And again, I'm saying it in advance, I've got 20 seconds, I've never argued that you shouldn't throw it away, some kind of demagogy like I'd give examples that firemen, policemen, energy workers, paramedics have to. Yes, 24 hours a day, and I didn't argue with that. It would be demagogy. I always argue with comparable groups. And you haven't explained that yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u17	Thank you. Please, Mr Klaus, Mrs Černochová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u18	I'm gonna make this very short, because I've already told most of Mr. Mihol, who sits next to me personally, but I'd just like to point out, let's not say these things that nobody wants, that nobody wants to shop at Štěpán's shop. When someone has a nice family, they're at home, playing carols, never thought of going to a shopping mall. When someone's lonely, they go to the store, or they go, there's no more people, and they shop in peace. Do not use these arguments. Let people make their own decisions, and don't define them as a politician, just as my colleague Nacher said, who has something to do, not to do etc. Business is private, people go there or they don't go there, and you're not here to forbid and determine what to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová, Mr Bláha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask Mr Mihola to act as a gentleman and not as a coward who takes into my colleague Alexandra Udženija's mouth, who does not sit here, cannot defend himself, cannot respond to him. Please do not behave in this inappropriate way towards a woman or anyone in this Chamber of Deputies. It's not even a little nice. Otherwise, I'm signing what my previous speaker, Mr. Klaus, said. Where do you get the audacity to tell someone what day he's supposed to go shopping? Go shopping when you want, just like your family, but please let the rest be decided by everyone. But if you're just here taking someone who isn't here, then I consider it the pinnacle of cowardice!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u21	Thank you. Mr Bláha now, Mr Mihola will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u22	Since we're not gonna make it tonight and I couldn't make the show, I'm just gonna remind you of some basic things that are going on here. A moment ago, one of those opinions was heard. Dear colleagues, no one wants to order who should ever go shopping, but we certainly want those people who don't have to be at work to spend their free time with their family. Yes, both proposals are wrong, for me, yes, even the current proposal, which is, is wrong. The best thing would be if we had all the holidays free, but it's the first step that's here, and it's about talking about it, discussing it, and moving it forward, because believe that most people who work in the service don't want to work on the holiday, but today even on Sundays. I say most. It's not 100 percent, but it's really most. If you got to know it and went around the head of the department store, you'd find out the real truth. There's no one to go to that job. Economics 30 percent on a normal day's holiday, so it's not economic either. It sounds like they're gonna go shopping in Makro, the guys they're selling. Believe me, no one will do that, just from an economic point of view. On the holiday, all of us who work on the holiday try to chase as few people as possible to work, just so that the rest can be at home with the family and, on the other hand, so that it costs us as little as possible. It's logical, because you don't give twice as much for a bagel. So what? Do you think the businessman gets anything out of this? He doesn't get anything out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Mihola, perhaps the last point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u24	I have to respond to some of my previous speakers. Mrs Černochová, through you, I am sorry that she is offended by her colleague. I've only stated what he can play on Michaela Jílková's show You have the floor where we were with that colleague. I didn't discuss it, I just mentioned that she said that opinion, which is why I'm working with it. That's what my colleague Nacher said. [[A note from the right side of the hall.]] My colleague, read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u25	Please don't shout so we can hear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u26	A colleague, by your means, Mr President, also talked about the chaos, and that is what I was telling him here, and he was suddenly pushing my economy. I was talking about that in general, but I wasn't talking about that in relation to you. Please, let's listen to each other and not be this relationshipary. Then we're really not getting anywhere. Also, my colleague, my neighbor Václav Klaus Jr., we've been over this. But I've never really given anyone what to do, and I haven't, so don't tell me like that, it really didn't sound like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-006-010.u27	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, it is nine o'clock. We voted no longer to act after nine o'clock, so I am interrupting this point. I'm interrupting today's meeting as well. We will meet again tomorrow, at nine o'clock, when we will begin with paragraph 315, which is the control of the House resolution 416. The following will be point 31, House press 509, which is a tax package. Thank you.
