ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u1	143. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities /Household Printing 356 - First Reading I ask that the opening words be given by the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago, the Czech Republic ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Its purpose is to provide disabled people with the possibility of active involvement in society's life and full application of their fundamental rights and freedoms in all areas of life. [[There's noise in the hall!]] The option protocol which is the subject of this material is basically a procedural standard for this human rights convention and its ratification will allow individuals and groups to submit complaints to the relevant UN Committee on infringement of the rights arising from the Convention. In response to these notifications, the governments have a six-month deadline for comments and then the committee will adopt certain proposals to deal with the situation, which will subsequently be communicated to both the State and the complainant. The Protocol also gives the Committee the right, in serious cases of violation of the Convention, to conduct investigations and visits by the State concerned. This is an important means of international monitoring of respect for human rights in the Czech Republic and ratification of this Protocol will bring protection of the rights and freedoms of people with disabilities to the same level with other international human rights reviews. A similar system has already been adopted by the Czech Republic, for example, by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention against Torture or the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It should be pointed out that the Committee's views on these complaints are not formal judicial judgments, so they are just certain policy recommendations. However, their implementation will, of course, have an impact on the Czech Republic's human rights credit at international level. In the case of approval of this proposal for ratification, the Czech Republic shall be assigned to 94 countries which are already Parties to the Protocol, including 22 Member States of the European Union. Thank you for your support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Michal Ratiborský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the Government, honourable colleagues, submitted by the Optional Protocol, the Contracting States of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities recognise the competence of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to deal with complaints made by individuals or groups of individuals about violations of rights arising from individual provisions of the Convention. A short historical tour. The Convention itself was adopted by the UN General Assembly on 13 December 2006. It is an important treaty on human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is based on the principle of equality and guarantees the full application of all human rights to people with disabilities and promotes their active involvement in the life of society. At the same time as the text of the Convention, the text of the Optional Protocol to the Convention, which is presented to us today, was adopted. The Czech Republic signed both documents among the first signatories. The Convention was subsequently ratified by the Czech Republic in 2009 and entered into force on 28 October 2009. However, the ratification of the Protocol was not at that time due to the novelty of the Convention and the lack of experience with the activities of the Committee. Similarly, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania or Bulgaria acted. It should be pointed out here that the Committee has drawn the Czech Republic's attention to certain aspects of national legislation and practice which could be the subject of the submission of individuals and groups against the Czech Republic in the event of ratification of the protocol. In particular, these are the following: limitation of the right and conferral of a disabled person to partial custody, lack of implementation of the requirements for barrier-freeness of buildings, lack of adjustment of procedures in crisis situations, particularly for deaf people, surgical castration as criminal measures, use of limiting devices in medical facilities, use of mechanical and chemical limiting devices in psychiatric facilities, sterilization on the basis of the consent of the guardian and inaccessibility of electoral materials to blind persons. I think it is appropriate to take these warnings as suggestions for possible legislative adjustment within the various departments, and I recommend that this press be released for second reading and order a foreign committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u5	Thank you. And I am now opening up a general debate to which Mr Marek Benda, President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, has signed up. I'm not registering another application yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if we have listened to the rapporteur. I have already encountered this once in some monitoring that somebody is doing and telling us from these international organisations that we have the wrong right to vote because they have no right to vote for the wrong people, and that we need to adjust it, because we have to admit that even an improper person has the right to vote. The recommendations mentioned here by the rapporteur are some of a relatively fundamental nature. I would ask too much, and now it's not even the Constitutional Legal Committee, if at least the Health Committee looks at it, because I think it's the way it goes, they've agreed, 192 states signed it, 140 have already ratified it, it's not binding, but then we're going to be very surprised when we get some monitoring committees coming here and they're going to tell us what we're doing wrong. So I would ask very much if, especially because this concerns many cases of health care, restrictions in health care facilities and this way, we could also order the health committee, or if there are other committees in the mood, such as petitioners, human rights and nationality of Professor Válková, if they were in the mood to look at it, because I think it's not something completely toothless and harmless again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u7	Thank you. I take this as a general debate now, so after the general debate, I will ask who is proposing which committee. Thank you, but I made a note. I'll see if there's any other interest in the general debate. I don't see any yet. I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Ratiborsky? It's not. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. And now I'm asking - does anyone else have a suggestion? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u8	I, if I may, would propose a committee of health and a committee of petition, for human rights and nationality. I think these two committees could discuss this, too, and at least I see the Chair of the Committee on Petitions noding. I don't see the chairman of the health committee noding, but since I don't see her at all, I hope she agrees, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-028-143.u9	Okay, we'll vote separately on each proposal. That means there will be three votes. I'm still gonna go on. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 256. 172 Members registered, for 144, against 0. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Next. We have two proposals from Mr Marek Benda, so I am asking - who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the health committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 257. 173 Members registered, for 138, against 3. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the health committee. And the last vote. Who is in favour of the motion being ordered to discuss the petition committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 258. 173 Members registered, for 126, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the petition committee. This concludes the discussion of this press for the moment. We're next on the line.
