ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u1	80. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 186/2013 Coll., on citizenship of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws (Law on citizenship of the Czech Republic) /German press 260/ - First reading We received the Government's position as House Press 260/1. I ask Senator Tomáš Czernin, who I welcome among us, to make a motion under the authority of the Senate. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, Members, it is an honor to introduce you here to this material as the successor of Senator Grulich at the head of the Permanent Senate Commission on Foreign Affairs, which initiated the amendment of this law. To the material briefly. On 10 October 2012, the law on citizenship came into the Chamber of Deputies. In Article 31, it allows citizens who have lost Czechoslovak or Czechoslovak citizens. Czech or Slovak citizenship before 1989, on the basis of its withdrawal, so that they have the right to obtain this citizenship back by a declaration. In this section it was also about children and grandchildren of these former citizens of Czechoslovakia, possibly. Czech or Slovak Socialist Republics. In the Chamber of Deputies, the opportunity for children and grandchildren was cut off. When the law came into force, there were relatively strong protests from the regional community because they were families with children with Czech citizenship, and other children or children who do not have Czech citizenship. This fact has often divided families. This significantly makes it impossible for you to travel or return to your homeland, if any. a visit to schools. It is not normal for one child to have the rights and obligations of a citizen of the Czech Republic and the other to not. There's a time line here. We have even received two petitions from abroad, and on the roads that we are going through, the compatriots are asking us to amend this law and return it to its original form, as the then government presented in 2012. In the final vote of the Senate bill, no one opposed, only one abstained, which indicates that the material found broad support among the senators. I am also pleased that the Government has also submitted a favourable opinion on it. That is, except for legislative technical comments, which may be removed during further discussion of the draft law in committee or committees or further readings. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Senate and our compatriots, I would like to ask you to release the bill until further reading and thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u3	Well, thank you. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u4	Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, Colleagues, Senate Bill amending Act No. 186/2013 Coll., on citizenship of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, hereinafter referred to as the Act on citizenship of the Czech Republic, this proposal responds, as mentioned, to the House Press 827, which was discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies in the previous term of office in 2013. As mentioned, when discussing the draft law on citizenship in the Chamber of Deputies at that time, the Constitutional Legal Committee proposed Resolution No. 164 and amended § 31 in such a way that it made it impossible for children and grandchildren to obtain citizenship by declaration. This amendment was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in 2013 and then the law was confirmed in the Senate. So today's proposal is reopening this question. Even then, during the previous term of office, MEPs acknowledged that this requirement was redundant from the perspective of the then Chamber of Deputies, and so they stood up to this proposal. I personally have to say that I share their opinion, and I do not see any reason to put this change into the law. Nevertheless, I understand why my fellow senators are coming up with this, and I will not propose rejection at first reading, but I recommend that the press go through the first reading and give you, colleagues, room again to discuss and open this issue at committee level. I therefore recommend that this proposal be addressed by the Committee on Security as a Committee on Guarantee, but of course also by the Committee on Constitutional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u5	Thank you. And now I am opening a general debate in which I have two applications. So I will be the first to ask for a speech by Mrs Karla Maříková, and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to extend the possibility of obtaining citizenship of the Czech Republic through a declaration for children and grandchildren of former citizens of Czechoslovakia. Today, only a former citizen of Czechoslovakia can do this. This was applied especially to Slovák after the division of the state and then to people who went into emigration, and their citizenship was lost. This adjustment has been in force since 2013 and has enabled it to introduce dual citizenship that had not been possible until then. Enlargement to children and grandchildren already proposed by the government, then by the Senate, the Chamber of Deputies rejected this, as has been said by the rapporteur, and this has been the case for five years. Meanwhile, 25 years have passed since the division of Czechoslovakia, and apparently the problems with citizenship have already been largely resolved. At least for those people who were interested in getting their shit together. I do not know that this topic is now resonating in society. The proposal does not specify the number of people involved and whether it is the problem of individuals, dozens of people or more. It is not clear whether there is a social demand for solutions between 25 years after the division of the State and in a situation where both countries are in the Schengen area. It is probably not at all true that the adoption of this proposal would not have an impact on the public budget. It would burden the state apparatus at the Ministry of the Interior and we do not know what impact this would have on social benefits, old-age or disability pensions, education etc. For these reasons, I make a motion to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u7	There. I'm registering your motion to dismiss at first reading. And now I will ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take up my role as rapporteur for the Committee on Petitions, which has received a petition from fellow countrymen living in Brazil. Allow me to introduce you to the text, and at the same time, I can answer these compatriots as they have been treated with their request. This request concerns precisely the current press. We who sign this application received Czech citizenship in 2014 pursuant to Section 33 to 186/2013 of the Act on citizenship of the Czech Republic. At the beginning of 2015, we sent a letter through the Czech Consulate General in San Paulo to the President of the Permanent Senate Commission for Regionals living abroad with a copy to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and Special Agent for Regional Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As we said at the time, although we were very happy to hear that we became Czech citizens, but also painful because children under this law were not and are not entitled to become Czech citizens. [[14.40 hours]] And more than that. We've discovered that we're living in a complicated situation. The law has divided our families. Some of our children are adults, some are young. How, for example, can the mother of an 11 - year - old travel on a Czech passport and a child on a Brazilian passport? That's what's making us very difficult at passport control. We can't even stand in the same row with the whole family. This situation significantly limits us until it makes it impossible to travel, but also to return to the Czech Republic, as well as to visit schools. We find ourselves in a situation where one sibling, born before the possibility of double citizenship, has citizenship other than that born after that date. How can a family be divided? It is certainly not fair or reasonable for children with a Czech nationality to be in one family and have an older brother or sister without a claim to her simply because they were born earlier. Our children, who could not receive Czech citizenship in 2014 or 2015, are very proud of their Czech origin and culture, follow Czech customs. We think that our children should also be considered full citizens of the Czech Republic. We who have obtained citizenship under Section 33 of Act No. 186/2013 Sb., on citizenship of the Czech Republic, we have therefore accepted with great hope that the Senate Bill of the Permanent Senate Commission on Foreign Countries was adopted, amending the existing Act No. 186/2013 Sb. We firmly believe that this new text will also be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, correct current injustices and allow our descendants to become Čech. So much clarification on this letter. I think it also describes the nature of the problems our fellow countrymen are facing. I would like to point out that the Czech community in Brazil is a very active Czech community, protecting our customs and national traditions. It is a long-standing group of people operating in Latin America, and I think it would also deserve to be considered, by means of a hand that is more drawn to Czech citizenship. This letter was signed by Professor doktor Miriam in Sao Paulo. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u9	That was Mr Leo Luzar. I do not see any more applications for the general debate. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Senator Tomáš Czernin is interested? He's not interested. Member Zdeněk Ondráček - are you interested? You're not interested. We shall take the vote on the proposals. We have a motion from Mrs Maříková to dismiss. I'm gonna go get the MPs in the ballroom. I don't see an application for withdrawal, so we'll proceed to the vote. We'll wait a little longer. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. Mrs Karla Maříková has filed a motion to reject this law at first reading. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 40, Mr 176, in favour of rejection 16, against 117, abstained 43. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? No. We will take the vote. We will therefore vote on whether we agree that the proposal tabled will be allocated to the Committee on Security as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 41, registered in 176 Members, in favour of 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask if anyone has a motion for further committee or committees to discuss. Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u10	I propose a constitutional committee that dealt with this in the previous term of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-004-080.u11	Okay. I do not see another proposal, which is why we will proceed to the vote. We will vote on whether this proposal will be directed to another committee for discussion, namely the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, registered as 176 Members, for 144, against 2. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. So this is the end of the discussion for the moment. Mr. and Minister of Culture Staněk have a replacement card number 11. We will now proceed to the discussion of the next press. This is about
