ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u1	35. Government bill on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination /German press 451/ - first reading Under the authority of the government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, whom I ask to take the floor. And I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should therefore like to mention the bill on compensation for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination. I must say that this proposal is essentially fulfilling a debt from the past, because it has been promised repeatedly in recent years that this proposal is simply to be submitted, because there is currently an adverse legal situation where there is no legal title in the legal order of the Czech Republic, on the basis of which a person who has suffered injury as a result of compulsory vaccination could successfully be able to compensate for this damage. The request is based on the debate of both the professional and, of course, the lay public, which was repeatedly brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court in its findings, as well as the public defender of rights. This bill also provides for the right of a person close to compensation for the damage to his/her mental distress in the event of killing or particularly serious injury to the health of his/her loved ones who have been subject to compulsory vaccination. The proposed bill therefore stipulates that the health damage resulting from the compulsory vaccination will be atoned by the State which imposed the obligation to be vaccinated and thus contribute to building the collective immunity of the population in the Czech Republic, which is certainly the right thing to do. In the Czech Republic, we have compulsory vaccination by law, but it is precisely if the State determines this obligation that it should ultimately take responsibility if the vaccinations are caused. Of course, vaccination is appropriate, is correct and is an important prerequisite for effective prevention of the spread of infectious diseases, and hence the protection of public health in the Czech Republic. If such injury to health is compensated as a result of an incorrect procedure by the health service provider who has carried out the vaccination or if the damage is due to a defect in the vaccine, the State has the right to require a regression payment. In view of the fact that injury as a result of the administration of the vaccine is generally very difficult to demonstrate, the proposal provides for the primary requirement for a causal link to be established. It is alleged that, if the consequences of the implementation decree occur at the time indicated, the injury will be considered to be caused by compulsory vaccination. This means that it will not be necessary to establish a causal link, but there are clearly stated consequences in that decree, which are based on the evident base study - anaphylactic shock, encephalitis and so on. It's clearly set. So in these cases, there will simply be a rebuttable assumption. In all other cases, a causal link should be established, i.e. whether the injury to health is caused by compulsory vaccination. There will, of course, be standard proof. [[17,00 hours]] The institution that will decide this, or decide on compensation and compensation for health damage caused by vaccination, will be the Ministry of Health, to which the injured entity will contact. The Ministry of Health will decide within six months. If he didn't agree, or the victim wouldn't be satisfied with this, then he would normally turn to the court within a limitation period of three years. In this respect, the subsidiary civil code shall be applied. After all, the one on this material is subsidiary - it is calculated that it will be used by the subsidiary later in the course of the process. So I think the process is quite clear, we tried to satisfy both the opinion of the professional public in this regard, the proposal was, of course, consulted with the Czech vaccine society and with other, as well as the lay public, as well as representatives of patients, parents and so on. It's a rather sensitive material. On the other hand, I think that we are actually repaying a certain debt in this regard, because the legal title for compensation is not in the legal order at the moment, and I think that this can also contribute to some dulling of the game of those who simply refuse vaccination for this reason. So thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u3	Well, thank you, Minister, for the introductory words. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Madame Members, Minister, I thank the Minister for presenting the Government Bill, House Press 451, the bill on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination. I would just like to add and perhaps summarize a little bit, on the one hand, the principles on which this bill stands and some things that are related to the amendment. The content of the adjustment is the introduction of an institute of compensation by the State for the damage caused by an obligation imposed by the State, that is to say regular, special or exceptional vaccination within the meaning of the Public Health Act. As the Minister has already said here, the basic principles on which this amendment is based are that the State compensates for injury to health as a result of vaccination, as I have already defined it. Only the damage caused by vaccination carried out by the service provider within the meaning of the Health Services Act is compensated. The injury must be caused by compulsory vaccination, but it is established that if the injured person suffers from the injury to the health referred to in the implementing legislation at the time indicated, this is the injury to the health caused by the compulsory vaccination. The amount of compensation shall be established in accordance with the rules of the Civil Code. The compensation is subject to an application submitted to the Ministry of Health and supplemented by documents showing entitlement to compensation. Furthermore, if the Ministry does not compensate the applicant within six months, the injured party has the right to appeal to the court. Similarly, where compensation for injury is paid, it is lower than the amount requested by the injured party. The financial claims assumed by the State for the existence of the compensation institute are estimated at the cost of civil servants of approximately CZK three million per year, operating costs of CZK million per year. The expected demands of applicants estimated according to what is in the surrounding countries and the knowledge of the real complications due to compulsory vaccination are estimated to be around 100 million per year. It also needs to be added, and the Minister has already mentioned it a little bit, that the proposal complements the gap created by the amendment to the Civil Code, which abolished without compensation the liability for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination for health service providers. The absence of the possibility of compensation is not in accordance with Article 24 of the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. The draft law proposed by the government provides us with a compensation scheme where the State will bear responsibility for the injury caused by the compulsory vaccination. The State also requires vaccination. The compensation mechanism is intended to balance the solidarity of the State and of the majority of the population who benefit from the general vaccination with individuals who, if necessary, may be affected by the vaccination. The law also refers to the decree of the Ministry of Health. The decree bears the title "Determining the consequences of compulsory vaccination consisting of injury to health, for which, based on medical knowledge, it is likely that they will occur, and the time at which those consequences will occur after the compulsory vaccination has been carried out. The decree sets out the type of vaccine, the type of injury to health and the period during which the possible injury usually occurs when it results from vaccination. It is estimated that the number of children who may not be able to anticipate the potential risk of a doctor and therefore may experience complications as a result of compulsory vaccination will not exceed the units of cases. Therefore, the proposal, and I reiterate, corrects in our legal order the absence in the world of the usual legal anchoring of the compensation mechanism. In this context, the proposed legislation should be adopted. For my part, however, I would like to point out that no money can make up for any health damage to a child. It is therefore necessary to devote funding mainly to research and studies that will lead to such vaccination settings and the use of such vaccines, which will eliminate any negative effects on children's health and will almost 100% guarantee their safety even in individual cases. It should be said and stressed that compulsory vaccination is really important. We can't think that the diseases we haven't seen lately will never happen again. In view of the vibrant tourism around the globe and other matters, it is therefore necessary for the state to have such mechanisms that really ensure maximum vaccination, and it is also necessary to set conditions for people, families, mothers, parents not to be afraid of having their children vaccinated. This can also help to improve the quality of vaccines, the thoughtful and individual vaccination calendar, as well as in relation to possible optional vaccination, better and objective information on vaccinations for parents. Of course, the individual approach of pediatricians to children and parents is essential under the vaccination conditions given by the vaccination calendar. [[17.10 hours]] Finally, I would like to stress that the compensation mechanism must be introduced in view of the need to cover the legal gap created by the abolition of the relevant section in the Civil Law. However, I recommend that we discuss not only this compensation mechanism, but also issues related to compulsory vaccination. I therefore recommend that we release the bill to second reading, and I believe that we will work together on a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u5	I thank the rapporteur for her introductory words and open the general debate in which I have the following Members signed in: the first is Mr Válek, and Mrs Věra Adámková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u6	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of TOP 09, I would like to say that we support this legislative standard and we are pleased that this law is on the table. We think that the aim of all of us who are health professionals in Parliament, but not only of all those who are sitting here, is to increase the population's inoculation, so that the population is not afraid of vaccination again, and that the possible complications that occur in vaccination, and that there is no point in denying that they do not occur, are compensated, and therefore we have as much as possible distracted by the concerns of those who are afraid of vaccination for various reasons. But I think it's just A, it's missing from my point of view B, and I'd like us to start discussing this B under this law. I think it should be possible for the patient to choose from two vaccines, so that monocomponent vaccines are available in the Czech Republic, and that the variant beside both polycomponent and monocomponent vaccines, although it is obviously not a self-savvy step, but the fact is that a number of those who object to vaccination are opposed primarily to hexavaccine, against polycomponent vaccines. I think that if there was an option, which, of course, at the current stage of the monopoly distributor, would not be so easy, the availability of monocomponent vaccines, that part of the rejecters would somehow be convinced to be vaccinated. I am pleased to repeat that this legislative standard is on the table, and I firmly believe that it will pass through Parliament and be approved. I am looking forward to a discussion on the health committee, but I would point out in advance that within this standard I will open up a discussion and I will also want to discuss the increased availability of individual types of vaccines and the choice of patients, because in my view the only objective here is to make sure that non-violently and factually, arguments, because it is for the benefit of our patients, convince the Czech population to be vaccinated and to offer them the vaccine that is the least risky from their point of view, while the experts agree. From this point of view, I would also like to have a discussion on the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u7	Thank you. Next is Mrs Věra Adámková, Mr Petr Třešňák will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course vaccination is a big topic especially for all doctors, because vaccination as a primary prevention has enabled us to achieve truly world parameters in terms of various communicable, especially children's infectious diseases. I am very glad that this government bill is in place. Of course, all citizens, especially at the moment of the Internet, have great opportunities to get information, which is not always completely valid, so I think that there is, of course, a need to further deepen the education. I am very glad that we can discuss this. My proposal for this is, and it is in agreement with the majority of the members of the Health Committee, because we want to invite experts and we really want to have the material for which we could stand, extending the period to second reading by 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u9	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Petr Třešňák, Mr David Kasal will be prepared. The MP is here. I'm just gonna ask. Twenty-day extension, you said? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Is that with the plaintiff's consent? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u10	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, we as pirát certainly welcome this proposed amendment and will endeavour to release it until further reading. In fact, the reasons why this is the case were elegantly summed up by a colleague named Válek. If there is a state-owned compensation, it will also distract many concerns. However, I originally wanted to start my short post at first reading with a statement that I consider absurd, but unfortunately it is a fact that the state hasn't actually dealt with the damage caused by something that the law imposed as an obligation for years. And this was underlined in 2015 by the Constitutional Court, or recommended the creation of legal regulation to compensate for adverse effects, which was actually mentioned by the Minister in his opening speech. Since then, the Ministry of Health has sporadically stated that it is aware of the gravity of the situation and is working on the creation of the relevant law. However, the Ministry prejudice the existence of an implementing regulation in Section 3 and I hope that we will be familiar with it during the hearing of the law in committee. And the next thing I wanted to draw attention to is such a certain socialization of the losses, if I may call it that, it sounds too technical, and perhaps in relation to compulsory vaccination and our public health insurance may sound like an odd argument, but we certainly want to have discussions on committees as well as whether they cannot, or should not, be involved, for example, by vaccine manufacturers, not just the state, and this could also motivate the manufacturer to minimise potential risks, while opening up discussions on various alternative vaccination schemes. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u11	I thank the honourable Member and the next in line is Mr David Kasal in the general debate. Mr. Svoboda will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me add some information, and perhaps some that have already been spoken to by my previous speakers have also responded. Of course, this standard is very important from the point of view that it's actually a brand-new law that wasn't here because it really wasn't. But the truth is that the ministry did not sleep completely, because in the previous two or even three years, a working group for vaccinations was working, where the topics that were suggested here were being discussed. It is true that it is not in the law that this implementing decree will really be important, how it will all be set up. Among other things, we were just discussing or saying, and here it is not clear how the compensation should be. Will it be a one-time compensation? Or will it be a rent? Because, of course, we're talking about situations where damage will be long-term or irreversible. We're talking about three or five kids a year, or adults, depending on who the reaction is or isn't. For this reason, it is also very important for these states to establish a precise procedure, and I think this should again be in the implementing decree on what examinations should be carried out. Now, it seems like doctors don't know what to investigate, but it's true that in the group we were visited by a large number of parents, or part of the parents who had this experience, and there was more or less that in some of the devices there was not a spinal puncture, or there was no magnetic resonance of the brain. And there should be a certain pattern of examination here that clearly determines whether or not it concerns vaccination. Because when we talk about, for example, the hexavaccine that is applied mostly from the second month and half a year of age, there are, for example, metabolic defects that have exactly the same image in children during this period, thus regressing the child's development as well as in vaccination. [[17.20 hours]] So if we're going to compensate, which, of course, is the right thing to do, then we should also compensate on the basis of the right material. Moreover, the bill also states that the applicant will actually request and that he will have to comply with the fact that he will have to have the necessary documents, which means that the report that should come in should include, for example, these examinations that I was talking about. Of course, there are many, many more. Also, one of the things has to be specified there, because it says that the applicant has to be vaccinated in a medical facility according to the law, which is correct, the other thing is, but he can be vaccinated in it and sometimes, sometimes, there is such a procedure that the child comes into the office, and in order to reduce the number of visits, which is of course wanted by patients, so the hexavac in one leg is put into the other leg, a pneumococcal vaccine is put into the other leg, and a vaccine is put in the mouth on the spoon against rotaviruses. And you don't have hexavaccine anymore, but you already have an octavaccine that the body has to deal with all of a sudden. And then we'll be able to tell what vaccination it is after? Is it after hexavaccine? Or is it after the combination? So the rules must be set there precisely, and I am therefore glad that the President has proposed an extension of 20 days to clarify all this and write it down precisely, because this is a very sensitive topic that can really contribute to improving vaccination and, above all, to correcting injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u13	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Mr Petr Pávek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u14	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The material we have on the table is actually very serious. It is true that he was mentioned earlier, from the moment the law was amended, that the question of compensation was necessary. But at the moment, we're in a slightly different situation than we were two years ago. We're in a situation where epidemics are actually happening all over the world because the whole world has started rejecting vaccinations. The reason it is is quite complicated. In the beginning, it is misinformation, which was also issued by experts on vaccines and vaccination experts. But the truth is, it's become a matter that goes on across the world. In the United States, where you wouldn't expect it, there's a huge problem with vaccination itself. Moreover, the current migration is so great that the transfer of infected patients from one country to another is very easy. And we're actually in a situation where that step of compensation isn't just taking responsibility for the state itself, but it's actually the answer to those vaccinated, or to their parents, that the state is taking responsibility for it, that it's willing to deal with it, and that's one of the other reasons why rejection of vaccination doesn't basically have that justification, which is one of the many reasons that, in the event of damage, the damage is actually not solved. The situation is very serious. As a pediatrician, with Mr President's approval, you know very well how the percentage of vaccination changes, that we are somewhere under 85 today, which is already a number which means that no immunity is guaranteed in this system, that the infection will run. [[to Mr Kasala]] Of course, we all know how high the percentage of rubella deaths is in Ukraine, for example, because then it goes to percent, not to the questions of promilion, and that what we say today, that we have three to five serious complications within a year after vaccination, is an indication that can change from one hour to the next, as the vaccination rate of the newborn population changes, as antibodies in the population have fallen in the past, because the immunity has no longer the character of lifelong, as we have thought about some things. That is why I believe that we are in a phase where we really should act. I already have enough experience with the Chamber of Deputies to know that if we open this debate too wide, it will become bleak, that there will be a whole series of things that do not belong there, that it will take a long time. That is why I think that we should discuss the proposal for how we have it in this form, because all the issues that we want to address are issues that should not be addressed by the House itself, which should be addressed by a body of experts that we actually have in vaccinationology. We have centers that deal with it. We've got experts working it out. All these other possible complications we should leave to the expert group and build on it - yes, here we have defined some number of possible complications and all other complications, if they are, will go through some negotiated procedure where they decide: there is a connection, there is no connection. There's a logic to that. It is not possible to insert all possible complications that may occur within a few years after vaccination. I'm an obstetrician, so I know that there are obstetrics in America, that the baby chokes when he's 18 years old and has problems with women. It's all going on as a lawsuit. So connecting some things freely, theoretically, is really wrong in my opinion. I would very much advocate that, in this form, we accept the proposal, so that we say in the discussion what we think should be part of the implementing decree and all the supplementary matters, and refer to the fact that the cases at issue run in a classic way through the expression of the relevant experts, so that we do not do it at a level not so professional, because even the option that I am learning that it is possible that the child is vaccinated into one leg, into another leg, into the tongue, and luckily it does not go into the ears at this time is quite interesting information for me, because I think that the doctor is taking more responsibility than he is giving him medical opportunity and professional opportunity. That's why I don't think we could get anything by extending any time limit. On the contrary, I think that we should inform patients' parents and patients as quickly as possible that the state that we are all doing something about it, that the ice and the steps that are trying to solve the matter have finally moved, and not that we are still putting it off, we are discussing, and finally the deed has escaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u15	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Milan Brázdil. Mr David Kasal will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the previous speaker. To let the state know as quickly as possible to those moms, parents, that they have some kind of compensation here, I'm sure they do. But let me ask you, who really... I'm not an expert in this field, I'm an expert, even a forensic expert in urgent medicine. And today, trying to get the compensation to be judged or any problems judged by an expert. And who will be the highest arbiter at the Department of Health? Who's going to say yes, here's the connection, and here's the compensation? Is that gonna be some college? Because you know that actually the reaction to vaccination from autism, starting with a real anaphylactic reaction - it's probably easier for anaphylaxis, and there's gonna be a problem with somebody else. This is basically a multidisciplinary matter where many experts have to meet. Roman Prymula will probably be the highest vaccineologist at the Ministry who understands it a lot, but he will say: here it is possible, it is not. But there's gonna have to be an arbiter who says yes, and we're gonna make amends here. Maybe it's more of a question for the Minister, and maybe even a discussion in our health committee, where we can discuss it in detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Another is Mr David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u18	Thank you for the floor. More or less, I'll follow up on my colleague. Which is why I think extending the deadline is a good thing. Because it is necessary, but really precise, to set the conditions and what has been mentioned here, so that there is no doubt about who will make the decisions, and that there are clear rules. On the other hand, it is not entirely part of this, but even now in those situations, in those epidemics, the problem is that I think it should be possible to apply this to some health professionals who are in particular fields - oncology, obstetrics - that they should be vaccinated. And I also met in my workplace that the newborn nurses had injected me with all of them, and the midwife refused. Can I make them do that? I can't. So I have no timetable at all. The hospital doesn't have the means. That is why the rules need to be set so that there is no doubt about what can be, because the hospital must ensure the safety of the patient who is there. Questions there are a number of questions, and therefore in some stages with his remarkable colleague Mr. MUDr. Svoboda, I disagree, both with the extension and, on the one hand, it really needs to be discussed and set exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Svoboda and his factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure it's not a verbal exercise between me and David Kasal, but a number of things have a common view. I would just like to remind you that if there is a dispute between the state and the citizen that something is not being done by the state, the court is decisive in that case. They're not experts, none of the experts, in which case it's a trial. And what I'm saying is that to list all the reasons that are fundamental, it is practically impossible that in any case there must be an option that says "yes, this is clear," and there must be an option that says "in this case there must be expert opinion, expert opinion, anti-status," and the court decides. That's what I think is absolutely, absolutely crucial. And again, here's the emergence. We in our hospital, we're a special hospital, so we don't have a problem getting all of us vaccinated in this situation because we see it as a violation of some development. And I'm saying, we're a special hospital, so it's a little different there, but what's erratic is that the epidemic will spread on and on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u21	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr David Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u22	My last reaction. This isn't about the kind of hospital. The point is, there's a generation growing up, it's those moms who don't want to get vaccinated anymore, and they don't want to be vaccinated alone. Which is why there must be accurate information, what we've already said here. It's just a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u23	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Member Petr Pávek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I must make a confession to a loving parent who has not had his children vaccinated. I'll get back to it later. Therefore, I very much welcome the proposal for this law, I welcome the fact that the Chair of the Health Committee, Mrs Adámková, has proposed an extension of the deadline, and I welcome the debate that is being opened here because - and maybe it is quite interesting to know - my children's mother is a doctor, she is from a medical family, honored to the maximum possible degree, academically, practically, from us, from abroad. That means, I'm sure it wasn't some populist infatuation. I do not consider myself to be an alternative or ecological fanatic who would radically go to the barricades in this matter, but as loving parents at the time we spent half a year studying the possible consequences of hexavaccine vaccination at a low age, as is our practice, and after consulting many doctors, after consulting the professional public, after studying foreign cases, when my first son came into the world, only in neighbouring Germany ran to 35,000 lawsuits against the state - and you know that in Germany vaccination is not mandatory - we considered, we considered, decided, and it was not clear for and against, the tongue on the imaginary scales of decision making was very, very, very, very in the middle, but in the end we were as responsible and loving parents, I think that neither of us is bound to be fully competent, certainly not an asocial, not subject to tendencies on social networks, some community or other currents - we decided against vaccination for the reason - we assessed this, that may be the risks that the vaccination of the hexavak at a low age can outweigh the reaction with these reactions by means of protection. I want to tell you that we will definitely support the release of this bill for the second reading for our club, so that this matter can be discussed. I'm happy to extend the deadline. I am glad for the contributions that have been made by the previous speakers, because they all seemed very reasonable to me, and there is only one question mark left - and that is the lack of objective experts. The problem I see is that for decades, the pharmaceutical industry has been one of the most generous sponsors in the academic and practical sphere, which means that most of the studies that have ever been carried out - and I do not question their validity - have been carried out - only most of the studies that have been carried out in favour of vaccination. And we don't have enough valid studies, because they've just never been funded, which could also point to widespread risks, so that when they're judged by the experts called for by a colleague of Mr. Svoboda, who has been asked here by a colleague of Mr. Brázdil, who are the experts. For me, for example, people in the immunology business are to some extent preloaded with their own business. Of course. And I don't want to go into confrontational tone. Definitely not today. I just want to point out that the subject is not as clear as it is sometimes given, neither on the side of supporters nor on the side of opponents. I believe that the only problem that the bill now carries is that it is not exactly - but that is what my colleague Kasal was talking about - described the way or methodology for proving possible damage as a result of vaccination. There's a lot of that stuff in there. I look forward to the discussion after the first reading, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u25	I thank the honourable Member for his speech, which raised a number of factual points. The first is Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Kasal will be prepared. In addition, Mr Válek and Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I would like to consider how research is funded, but of course, the study. So, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, there seems to be no such detail and such great control, such a complex administration as it is in the pharmaceutical industry. And the financial costs for the development and verification of studies are so extreme that it is difficult to do so without private capital. Of course, it is an effort for the state to take part of these financial burdens, but these are so large amounts that it is not entirely possible to finance it directly by the state. That means, from this point of view, I think it's more of a conspiracy theory, but I can't imagine a pharmaceutical company that, with bad intentions, would fake some results, because then - and the cases here, of course - the lawsuits then, when it comes to the fact that the drug has side effects, that there are deaths, patients affected, they wouldn't pay. That means they're not suicidal, and that they'd fake something, that would really be a complete suicide for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u27	Thank you. Mr David Kasal is next in line, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u28	I just made a brief remark to my colleague Pávek through Mr President. More or less, what Dr. Bělobrádek said now, there, of course, if we were based on the logic that everyone is biased, the lawyers would not be able to break the law on advocacy. I don't think we can look at it that way, and we really have to leave it in the pragmatic plane of it -- this law isn't about explaining whether vaccination is okay or not. The vaccination is clearly in order. The point is, if there's any condition, it's to describe it to rule out all possible other diseases, and if there's no other disease, then it's to admit it's from vaccination. It's as simple as that. Nothing more complicated, because otherwise we'd be lost in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u29	Thank you. Mr. Válek, Mr. Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u30	Thank you. I think, colleagues and colleagues, there is a need to look at everything that is going on here, something that could move us forward in the legislation that we adopt. And that opinion by means of the President, Mr Pávek, is simply an opinion that exists in society, which resonates and which part of society holds. I sit next to my colleague Pávek, and I know him as a very decent and correct person, and I know his opinions, and I really appreciate them, so I have to think about it. I think that he, like no one in this Chamber of Deputies, will question it and not question it, and it will never do that to save tens, hundreds, thousands, hundreds of thousands of lives, maybe millions of lives. No one doubts that vaccination is useful. But the debate we're having here, if the right way really is a hexavac vaccine, if the right way is the vaccination protocol system that we're using here, which is a highly professional debate, and let's really go back to what I said here once before - the aim is to dispel doubts in the public. And we don't distract those doubts by dogmatically standing on anything. We need to debate these doubts, find out where they're coming from, and try to disprove them. Inoculation saves lives. Let's agree on that, please. Now, let's do this so that no one gets hurt, there's no complications, and there's maximum public acceptance of vaccinations. That's our mission and our goal. Let's do the best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next in line is Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to personally welcome this proposal, because vaccination, as is currently being carried out and applied, will certainly harm a lot of children and a lot of parents by suffering from the disability of their own children, and I would like to thank Mr Pávek for his courage and openness, with which he has spoken with his life story, and through the President I would like to tell him that we are certainly not alone as parents who have not informedly had their children vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u33	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Svoboda will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only wanted to respond to my colleague Kasal, who mentioned the case of lawyers, that, according to him, lawyers should, of course, write laws on lawyers. Thus, it is logical that expertise is needed, but at the same time it is necessary to be aware of the conflict of interest, and perhaps lawyers support the extension of the concept that reduces competition, and there is a need to perceive that they also have some narrow group interests at the same time as the expertise. And it is very similar with vaccination experts, as I think my colleague Pávek rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Svoboda and Mr Vyzula will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u36	Thank you for the floor. And I am speaking for the last time on this matter. Let me just warn you all, at this point, we're not discussing whether to be a hexavac vaccine, a single vaccine, what intervals should be, at what age should it be given. We're talking about the fact that if someone happens to be damaged by the vaccination, the state will give him a replacement. That's what we're voting on. Not at all about how he's vaccinated or how he shouldn't be vaccinated. Not at all! It's not a professional discussion, it's not even for doctors. This is a discussion for economists to say, yes, the state has what it takes when it's so much and so many pieces in a year, or it doesn't, and we decide whether or not it will be. And there's nothing medical about it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vyzula and his factual comment. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon. Please, it doesn't make me say a few things. Here it sometimes sounds like it's about to appear in the papers, that Parliament is convinced that vaccination is harmful. Please, I would clearly like to stand up for all the reasonable ones, as my colleague Válek has already said, through Mr President, that vaccination saves people's lives. And that has been proven many times. And I would like to say, but in spite of that, I have to disagree a little with my colleague Válek that we would like to ensure that vaccination does not harm anyone. That's impossible. Let's be aware of that, too. Of course, there are very, very, very few cases, but they just happen. But it's a much bigger benefit of the vaccination than if it weren't for the vaccination. The damage would be much worse. And the second thing that picked me up from the chair is what my colleague here said, I think, free through Mr President, that vaccination has damaged a lot of children. A lot. These are individuals who have consequences, but not in any way many. And this committee, which would be at the Ministry of Health, will have to be very carefully chosen to really assess whether or not it was damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Válek and Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Freedom about what is being voted on here. In my opinion, the claim that there's a vote on whether the state can afford it doesn't really fit. The point is that the state has imposed some obligation on citizens to vaccinate its children and to carry out this obligation poses risks, so it is entirely adequate for the State to bear the responsibility for the risks at the same time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u41	Thank you. Mr Válek and Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u42	Thank you. That's what got us going. As dirt is consumed, I am responsible through the President, Mr Volný. It's a standard answer. But I would like to say that I think, and I am very sorry through Mr President, that I do not agree with my fellow Member, Mr Liberty. That the goal really should be to make sure that there are minimal complications after vaccination. That there's no way that there's no complications, that's a fact. But the goal should be that there are no complications after vaccination. And I am looking forward to some analysis, which will certainly be heard by the health committee, what is the actual number of complications after vaccination, if we have any such data. Because if we want to compensate these patients, if we know how much it's going to cost, we certainly have data that tells us if there's an increase in the number of complications, reduces what's the reason and so on. I'm sure the data will be heard when this law is passed, and then we, as Parliament and the public, will tell what the hard data is, and we can defend them. I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u43	Thank you. Mr Pávek and his factual point. Mr Jan Volný will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to take the liberty of reacting only briefly to my colleague, Mr Liberty. I agree with him that we are discussing a draft law on compensation for potential or possible victims as a result of vaccination and that the debate is also at risk of being dissolved into broad professional or ideological topics. I don't think that's desirable. But it is very, very desirable, and in this I agree with my colleague, Válek, by your means, that there is a need to lay down clear rules for identifying the possible victims. That means, if we're going to compensate the victims, the victim has to be defined. It doesn't matter if it's a commission, a college, or anyone else. But what's important and what I'm going to want from the Ministry as the petitioner of this bill and what I want to debate on the Health Committee is how the definition of the legitimate victim worthy of compensation will be ensured. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný with a factual remark. Mr. Janulík will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I want to speak as a layman, I'm not a doctor. And, of course, I'm a fan of vaccination. I have a doctor at home who just says it's absolutely necessary. But this discussion -- and I don't want to limit the discussion, not at all, discuss -- but if there's ever gonna be a civilian like me watching it at night, not a doctor, this discussion has to lead him to believe that vaccination is probably gonna be a problem if there's a long way to talk about it and he's got to take his word for it. That's how I see it -- all the doctors who said it here, vaccinations do. All doctors and non-doctors here - a colleague of Pávek says, it is good that this compensation for those few people or children who may be damaged is good. Well, let's just do that on the committees, and let's not get into it. Because it gives an excuse to think that maybe it's a problem when you talk about it for so long. So please, I don't want to cut back on the discussion, but here are the rules. The doctors say it's to be vaccinated, it's to be done, we all feel it. There are opinions - watch out, there are threats, there are consequences. Yes, it's good to pay them. Let's close it like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u47	Thank you. Mr. Janulík. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u48	Thank you for the floor. I have to comment on my previous colleague Pávek through you. What are those words? What kind of victims? Like us, we don't make victims. We're just trying to help people, and you're using terms like weapons of mass destruction. I mean, look around here at the O.R. who wasn't vaccinated here. Perhaps I could find someone with the pirát. But otherwise, we've all been vaccinated here. So don't use expressions like we're gonna compensate the victims. Victims. Inoculation is not a holocaust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u49	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u50	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. After the excited discussion, maybe we'll go back to a more relevant position. I would like to present my position and my opinion to KDU-ČSL. In the last parliamentary term, we have already called for a legal standard to be submitted here to establish compensation for compulsory vaccination. I have also intersected past ministers in this regard several times. So I thank the Minister and the Health Department team for submitting this bill. And I can say for myself - and now maybe I will briefly follow up on my colleague Ferjenčík through the President. Although I am a doctor, I do not feel in conflict of interest in this regard, as an elderly orthopedic surgeon and traumatologist do not inoculate patients. Except maybe two shots of tetanus shots. So I don't feel like I'm in a conflict of interest. However, of course I'm a medical university doctor, so I know something about vaccination. So I'm going to be speaking here as a doctor, but also as a father to four children. And I will confess that all our children have been fully vaccinated, including the youngest. And I'll admit that my wife and I experienced all those vaccinations in some way. Because vaccination really is very important. And I would like to stress it here again. I consider vaccination a very important tool to preserve the health of the population. But it must be said that there are certain risks. We too experienced fevers, nausea, and fortunately only those minimal side effects. That means we've been through every vaccination in some way. I can relate to the situation of families who have had more serious side effects. And I must say that many of these families visited me as part of the parliamentary work. Sometimes we finally explained that it was not the consequences of vaccination. As part of this discussion, it is noted that the real proof of any injury to health is one of the most complex, both professional and legal, disciplines. This means that the discussion of this bill will not be entirely easy, and in this respect I welcome the proposal from the Chair of the Health Committee of Professor Adámková to extend the deadline. I do not see this as extending the discussion and delaying the law that is so much needed, but as an instrument for us to actually develop both the technical and legal aspects of this bill. Maybe I'll briefly mention some that I think would be worth discussing. And it's nothing against the standard itself. As part of his introductory words, the Minister mentioned the premise when the bill is based on the so-called rebuttable assumption that, in the event of damage to the victim resulting from injury to health, which, based on medical knowledge, is likely to result from the vaccination carried out, it is considered that such injury was caused by this vaccination. Also, the minister here said it wouldn't affect everyone. That it only applies to those where the probability really is great. In spite of all this, given the mood in our society towards vaccination, it must be said that at least at the beginning of this - when the law comes into force, it can be expected that it will not be some unit number of applications, but I dare to estimate that it can be hundreds, perhaps thousands, submissions. We are all probably watching various discussions on websites, on social networks, where some patient organizations really fight against mandatory vaccination at once, and their rhetoric is often not objective. There are often cases presented that can't actually be the consequences of vaccination from a professional point of view, but those parents perceive it this way, and no one has been able to disprove it yet. This means, I think that there is still a need for discussion here, and I remind you again, I take it that this is a very complex legal debate, and under these circumstances I would also advocate that, in addition to the Committee on Health, this bill should also be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. That's note number one. [[18.00 hours]] And then one less serious remark, which I think is also worth discussing, is the wording of Section 4, according to which the applicant is obliged to document a number of documents, including the complete medical documentation that relates to the vaccination carried out. Here I would like to stand up for those families that will be asked and for whom the health of their child is often a very emotional issue. And while there is also an optional possibility in this section that the Ministry of Health will request medical documentation on the basis of the family's power of attorney, I would advocate that this obligation be already primarily on the part of the Ministry of Health, so that we spare these families not always a very simple discussion with medical devices. I know paramedics are empathetic. However, sometimes the debate is difficult for them too. And it's very difficult for those families. So this is where I'd stand up for the families and put the burden of proof on the side of the Department of Health. So many notes on this bill. The KDU-ČSL Club supports this proposal and we will vote for the release until further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u51	I thank the honourable Member. And with priority rights, Mr Farský is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 April, in two days' time, we will have a two-year anniversary when we voted on the proposal to introduce responsibility for the negative consequences of vaccination in the Chamber of Deputies. At the time, it was a proposal from our opposition club. It did not receive aid when it voted against the introduction of objective responsibilities YES, the Social Democrats and then the Dawn Club. The Communists got held up. In addition to us, the ODS and the People's Party supported the introduction of this responsibility. I am glad that this topic is returning to the Chamber of Deputies because I consider it essential. It is essential that we become a modern state in that when a state imposes an obligation, it also accepts responsibility for any negative consequences. I think it's so normal that it's strange that it must have taken so long to enforce it in our legal order. In this, I am glad that the Minister is coming up with this bill. She's a really long genesis. The first meetings to enforce this began sometime in 2015, when a working group was established, in 2016, the Ministry of Health promised to present this very law. 2019 is being written and it is only beginning to discuss it, which, even as the committee talks are extended, is evident that it will not be short and will not be easy. I would also like to thank my colleague Kaňkovský here, with whom we have devoted a lot to this topic in the past period and have tried to enforce it, even for the reason that was mentioned here, and he spoke two years ago - because this proposal has the potential to increase confidence in vaccination. Because it really didn't seem credible when the state on the one hand gave the obligation to be vaccinated and on the other hand said, but if something negative comes up, we don't want anything to do with it. It felt as if he was afraid of the consequences that might come to him. He was afraid to take responsibility that he said existed, that there were no negative consequences. So from this point of view behind the Mayors and Independents Club, I want to say that we are glad that, finally, after our proposal was rejected here in the Chamber of Deputies two years ago, this topic finally arrived in the House. We will support him in introducing him to the next reading. And, of course, in cooperation, I hope, with my colleague Kaňkovský, we will now work to ensure that the burden of proof is as low as possible in the fact that the situation of parents who are experiencing some negatives associated with this situation in life is really unreasonable and rude at that point in time. Imagine a situation when your child, for God's sake, just happened to him, and when you think only of his life, only of his health, you should also devote a piece of your capacity to producing evidence to get some financial compensation. That's so far in your priorities that then the law could remain useless and toothless. That is why I will be happy to work in this area to ensure that access to parents and children is as favourable as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u53	Thank you. And one point of fact - Mr David Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u54	I must respond to my colleague Farský through Mr President. I went into politics with the fact that some things are done gradually and in a row. Of course, democracy is probably the best, but it needs to be slow. But on the other hand, I've already said it here in my post, in the first one - first the vaccination committee met and two months two years, there were a number of experts, there were representatives from the vaccination organizations and others, and there we defined what was supposed to be there. So, as for me, you read to us here who voted against it at the time, it was completely unnecessary, because we voted against it when the evidence wasn't there yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u55	Thank you. There is no application for a general debate at the moment. I don't see anyone from the point of view, I'm ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. The Minister is interested. Please, you have the floor. And on the tape of the day, I will say that Mrs Markéta Pekarová, Mrs Adamová, withdraws her note, is present. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for the comprehensive and interesting debate and debate. I must say that - and with all due respect for honourable fellow Members - we have actually already put an implementing decree on this law in the House press. It is necessary to look at this House's press very carefully, because - and I think it is even in the rules for submitting draft laws if it is envisaged with implementing legislation that this legislation must be an implementing part. So we respect this, and the decree is an annex to the House press. And there is a clear indication of what the consequences are, in what period the consequences are. And if that happens, it's the rebuttable legal assumption that these consequences were caused by mandatory vaccination. It is indeed based on the record of based knowledge, medical knowledge, which I really think is indisputable. This is based on a discussion with a professional vaccine society. So here, clearly in this decree, for each type of vaccine, there are the damage given, including the time zones, until when, if the damage, virtually. the result is apparent, there is a rebuttable assumption and it will not be necessary to establish a causal link, i.e. a causal Nexus, between compulsory vaccination and the injury to health. So here I think we really did our part. I must say that associations like Rozalio etc. agree with this, because they were also discussed. A professional company agrees with this. So here I don't think there should be any legal dispute, virtually. a technical dispute about when it should be compensated and when it should not be. Of course, if there is any consequence that is not given in the decree, then there is a standard process of demonstration, and a causal link must therefore be established. Not in other cases. Of course, we can talk about making it easier in terms of requiring medical documentation. However, I am not quite sure that the Ministry of Health is entitled to request and consult medical documentation without the consent of the body. I'm not quite sure it's gonna be okay legally. That's what I think we need to discuss. From my point of view, it could be a problem. I think that there must always be the consent of the injured patient in question, so that the Ministry of Health looks into the documentation, which is what the proposal envisages in this regard. So I think the proposal really contains everything necessary. I'm sure we'll discuss the details, but in that context, I think it's enough. [[18.10 hours]] As far as the assessment of the right to compensation for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination is concerned, there are already, in principle, a number of examples where it works in other laws today. Probably the most famous one is Law No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration, where, as in this law, administrative proceedings are not conducted, but the Ministry, of course, assesses the private claim of the injured party. He will certainly judge him on the basis of expert assessments. We assume that an expert committee will be created, expert opinions will be required, etc., as is the case with the Act on Damage caused by an incorrect official decision or procedure. So here we have a clear master in another law, so I don't see any major problem. I repeat, if the Ministry does not decide within six months of the claim or decides in breach of the request of the victim, then of course, an independent court in civil proceedings will be here within a limitation period of three years. So once again, the rights will be clearly protected here, and the subject will be able to call a decision in an independent court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u57	Thank you. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, it is not my job to replicate the comments that have been made here. In the end, the Minister did it. So it's just a statement from me that the debate was really big and trash. Eight Members submitted to the debate and 16 factual comments were added. The application was submitted for an extension of the deadline for the negotiation of the 20-day law. There has also been a proposal in the debate for discussion not only in the guarantee committee, as suggested by the Grémium, but also in the Constitutional Legal Committee. I support both of these proposals, which have emerged from the debate, and I ask that you also support them by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u59	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I assume that's the constitutional law. [[Prosecutions from the diaper.]] No, like the next one. Okay. So the guarantee committee is just a health committee. I've started the vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting order number 120, registered 180 Members and Members, for 147. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but there is a motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Committee. Is there any other suggestion? I don't see anybody, so we're going to vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 121, registered 180 Members and Members, for 72. The motion was denied. Furthermore, we will vote on an extension of the deadline for discussion of 20 days. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favor, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting order number 122, registered 180 Members and Members, for 135. The motion was accepted. Thank you, and I'm handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-011-035.u60	Thank you. We'll continue with the next point, which is
