ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u1	1. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 /German press 605/ - first reading I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for staying at the rapporteur's table, and we will continue to discuss this point. On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová will make the proposal. Please, Madam Vice-President of the Government, I'll give you my word when there's enough peace in the room. If you are still having discussions on another subject, please in the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now introduce you to the draft law on the State Budget 2020 and present to you its basic parameters and macroeconomic framework on the basis of which the draft State Budget has been drawn up. I think that the proposed budget is good and brings record-breaking investment in insufficient infrastructure, record-breaking funding for education, further strengthening science, research, innovation, and not forgetting seniors and families with young children. [[10.20 hours]] The draft State budget for 2020 is based on the macroeconomic scenario and the forecast of revenue, which has been assessed by the independent Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, in accordance with the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility, which, on 29 August, found both forecasts realistic for 2019 and 2020. Despite the relatively diverse views of the members, which were justified by significant risks in the external environment, the majority of the members present agreed that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are consistent internally and correspond to their expectations in key parameters. Against the background of growing risks in the external environment, slowing economic activity in the countries of the European Union and imbalances in the domestic labour market, the dynamics of the Czech economy are also weakening. The performance of the Czech economy should slow slightly from 2.4 percent in 2019 to 2.2 percent in 2020. Domestic demand should remain the main driver of growth. The real growth in household consumption is likely to have a temporary effect on the higher inflation rate, which should fall from 2.7 percent this year to 2.4 percent in 2020. The closure of the production gap is also linked to developments in the labour market, where we expect a gradual reduction in pressure and for the unemployment rate as well as the increase in average wage approaches to the long-term natural level. However, I would like to remind you that the macroeconomic context is based on the assumption that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union with an agreement that will not interfere with the free movement of goods and services, as well as the assumption of a settlement of escalating trade disputes between the United States of America and China or with other countries. Since 2017, the fiscal policy plan and implementation have been restricted by the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. In their framework, fiscal policies of the following years can be characterised as neutral to slightly expansionary, which is fully in line with the reality of slowing down economic growth. Now allow me to proceed to the specific parameters of the draft state budget. We expect total revenues to rise by 7.7 percent year on year, or almost 113 billion. CZK 1,578 billion. Crowns. The expenditure of the State budget for 2020 is proposed by 40 billion. CZK more than revenue, i.e. CZK 1,618 billion. Crowns. The deficit of the state budget thus remains at the same level for 2020 as this year, while maintaining a positive balance of the general government sector. With regard to the revenue assessed by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts then - I propose tax revenue without insurance in the amount of almost 819 billion. CZK, almost 50 billion. crowns higher. More than half of this has been contributed by new tax measures such as the increase in gambling tax rates, excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, the amendment of the legislation on the provision of reserves to the insurance undertaking or the introduction of a digital tax. inkaso prediction also increases the last stage of electronic sales records. We spend over 586 billion on additional social security contributions. Crowns. Our estimate of a year-on-year change of 30 billion. is based primarily on forecasted growth in average wages and wages in the economy. For revenue from the European Union's budget and financial mechanisms, we expect an amount of almost 112 billion. CZK, approximately 18 billion. higher than this year. This corresponds to the advanced phase of the seven-year cycle of the current programming period of the European Structural and Investment Funds. Other revenue is budgeted at less than 62 billion. crowns and year-on-year increases by more than 15 billion. CZK mainly due to higher revenues from the sale of emission allowances by almost 10 billion. CZK, revenue from the auction of frequencies of 7 billion. Crowns. In addition, 16,5 billion are expected in this category of income. CZK from funds from privatisation accounts or income from dividends of Prague Airport estimated at 1.5 billion. Crowns. As well as revenue, the expenditure of the draft state budget is increased by 112.8 billion year on year. Crowns. If I were to divide the change into national and co-financed European expenditure, there is an increase of more than 95 billion. consist of domestic means. Since the main objectives of our government are the development of the Czech Republic, funds will be used primarily to increase capital spending by 23.9 billion in 2020. CZK 146.2 billion to almost 146.2 billion. Crowns. The annual increase is 15,6 billion in capital expenditure covered by EU budget revenue. Crowns. And for Czech capital expenditure, there is an increase of 8.3 billion. Kroner to 88 billion. Crowns. It is precisely increasing the state share of expenditure on investment that is one of the objectives of the current government, thus following the trend in which it has consistently increased its capital expenditure from national sources since 2014. In addition, expenditure on research, development and innovation will be increased by 1 billion. CZK 37 billion to national resources. Crowns. After counting EU-funded expenditure and financial mechanisms, total research expenditure is 47,6 billion. CZK, which represents an increase in expenditure by 5.5 billion compared to 2019. Crowns. The share of these GDP expenditure for 2020 amounts to 0,8 percent. In the 2020 budget, we also demonstrate that education is a priority for us. The total budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will reach 226 billion next year. CZK, which represents an annual increase in budgetary appropriations by almost 21 billion. Crowns. The amount of funding for the salaries of teaching staff in regional education is increased by 10 per cent, with a further increase of 9 per cent for 2021, so that the salaries of teachers in regional education at the end of the parliamentary term in 2021 reach at least 150 per cent of their amount from 2017, which is in line with the objective set out in the Government's programming declaration. This will ensure a teacher's average salary of at least 45 thousand. CZK in 2017. The amount of appropriations for the salaries of non-teaching staff in regional education is increased by about 10 percent. For 2021, a further increase of about 4% in salaries is foreseen so that the salaries of non-teaching workers in regional education at the end of the parliamentary term in 2021 are at least 150 per cent of their amount for 2017, in line with the objective set out in the Government's programming declaration. This will ensure the average salary of a non-teaching worker at a level of at least 24,000. Crowns. The increase in the salaries of all public administrations in 2020 will be CZK 1,500 per employee and the first scale of pay rates will be abolished at the same time. A reduction in the number of seats and the amount of appropriations for salaries determined by the government according to the specifics of each chapter will be reflected in the draft budget for 2020. The reduction did not apply to members of the security forces, professional soldiers, employees in regional education and employees in so-called parliamentary chapters. This measure represents a total savings of 1.17 billion. CZK and reduction of the number of seats by 2 970 seats. Furthermore, in the field of the salaries of constitutional officials and derived judges and prosecutors, an update of the calculations will be reflected according to the level of the average nominal monthly wage of natural persons in the non-business sphere achieved in 2018 announced by the Czech Statistical Office on 3 September this year. The remuneration of judges and prosecutors in relation to current figures is increasing by 10,3% compared to the base of 2019 and the salary base of other constitutional officials by 10,3%. This impact on the so-called Parliament's chapters will be dealt with when discussing the state budget in Parliament's Chamber of Deputies in the form of an amendment. [[10.30 hours]] In the social field, a significant increase in the average old-age pension is budgeted, which should be increased by CZK 900 to CZK 14,326 from 1 January 2020. This extraordinary valuation increases the state budget spending by 34,9 billion. over 507,4 billion. Crowns. In addition, there is an increase in parental allowance, which raises the standard of living of day-to-day care for young children, corresponding to an amount of 8.6 billion. Crowns. The State's payment to public health insurance is increased by 3.5 billion year on year. CZK 76,8 billion in total. Crowns. The national expenditure framework of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure has been increased to a total level of 70.2 billion. Crowns. From the point of view of the functioning of the public administration, we have strengthened budgetary resources in defence of the Czech Republic, where the Ministry of Defence's expenditures are designed in volume of almost 9 billion. higher than this year, which should amount to 75,5 billion in 2020. Crowns. In line with the defence strategy of the Czech Republic and the long-term outlook for defense 2035, it is assumed that the Ministry of Defence's budget will be gradually increased in order to achieve a share of 1,4 percent of GDP by 2021. We are also counting on a 5% valuation of the contribution to the performance of the state administration in the local authorities. At the same time, allow me a brief subjective summary. I believe that the draft state budget for 2020 creates the prerequisites for implementing appropriate policies that will contribute to increasing productivity and shift our economy's potential, whether by investing in infrastructure or in education, science, research or innovation. At the same time, the proposal supports elements of inclusive growth, as it increases the standard of living not only for seniors but families caring for young children and helps to increase confidence in the turbulent times of growing trade protectionism, uncertain future relations with the United Kingdom or the form of European integration. Thank you for your attention and, at the end of my speech, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to support the Government's draft law on the State Budget 2020 and to approve the basic data of the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u3	Thank you, Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, by his decision number 37, ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets submitted a resolution addressed as House Press 605/1. I will now ask the rapporteur, President of the Committee on Budgets, Miloslava Vostroa, to introduce us to this position. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, let me start by reminding you of the most basic figures, because I think the Minister's reasoning has been detailed enough, and I would like to give you the others the opportunity to respond in the debate. So just to sum up, the total revenue of the state budget for 2020 is set at 1.578 bill. CZK, total expenses 1.618 beat. CZK 40 billion deficit. The state budget contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, expected revenue from the budget of the European Union totalling 109.9 billion. CZK and budget contributions of CZK 47 billion. There are also financial relations to regions outside the capital city of Prague of 1.4 billion, to municipalities outside the capital city of Prague of 9.8 billion. and the capital of Prague of 1.14 billion. The draft state budget envisages a slight slowdown in economic growth against 2019 at 2.2 percent, and an average rate of inflation of 2.4 percent and an unemployment rate of 2.3 percent. On the income page there is an increase in tax revenue including social security premiums by a total amount of CZK 112 billion. Here I would just like to say that estimates of revenue from legislative proposals are included, which have not yet been passed through the whole legislative process, such as a rate package or a tax on selected Internet services. Personally, I believe that neither the state nor the outlook of the Czech economy is bad enough to stimulate it in deficit. However, the current budget deficits are given by other reasons, and I would like to remind them here. In the past, a number of sectors have been underfunded and, of course, these ratios are costing more money at the moment. The government's budget proposal is certainly not perfect, but I lack, for example, topics such as the effectiveness of the welfare state or more thoughtful government capital expenditure. That doesn't seem to be the priorities of this budget. However, I consider it important that in mid-September this proposal was supported by both the union and employers at the tripartite meeting, and therefore I would sum it up by saying that the government's draft state budget is a reasonable compromise. Finally, I would like to inform that the House Budget Committee discussed this government budget proposal 14 days ago, and in its resolution it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the basic parameters of the state budget for next year at first reading. However, I would like to ask Mr President whether I can introduce the entire text of the motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies now, or whether I should join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u5	Thank you. I understand, Madam President. Even though I've asked colleagues to discuss other things to keep them quiet, there's still noise...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u6	However, Mr Vice-President, you may not have noticed my question, so if you don't mind, I will continue to introduce the Chamber of Deputies to the whole motion for a resolution. So, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. Resolution of the Budget Committee of the 30th meeting of 9 October 2019 on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House Press 605. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, the Intelligence Administration and the debate of the Committee on Budgets I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 at first reading: Chamber of Deputies: I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 according to the House press 605, which are: [[Next law]] A. The amount of revenue determined by amount of CZK 1 578 118 723 753, the amount of expenditure determined by amount of CZK 1 618 118 723 753, the difference between income and expenditure determined by amount of less than CZK 40 billion. [[Balance]] B. The method of settlement of the balance by the following financing items: (a) increase in state financial assets accounts by CZK 2,626 169 129; (b) a change in the state debt by CZK 42 626 169 129; c. The financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 1 488 199 500. [[10.40 hours]] D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, in total in individual regions, namely contributions of a total amount of 9 828 964 200 CZK. E. Financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, a contribution of a total amount of CZK 1 140 915 000. F. Acquired to the Minister of Finance pursuant to § 4 para. 1, 2 of the Act and the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to individual municipalities and the capital city of Prague in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 8 of the Act; [[Article 2 (2) (a) 4]] II. notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 (a) contains financial relations with the EU budget, namely the expected revenue from the EU budget of CZK 109 587 036 655 and contributions to the EU budget of CZK 47 000 000 000; (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, a.s., amounting to CZK 188 000 000 000; (c) it contains in Annex 9 of the Act a list of subsidies from the listed chapters of the State budget in 2020 with the designation of their beneficiaries and an indication of their amount which are not subject to the obligation to declare a call for a grant pursuant to the budgetary rules; III. commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 as follows: the petition committee of Chapter 304 - Office of the Government, 309 - Office of the Ombudsman, 343 - Office of Personal Data Protection; Budget Committee Chapter 301 - Office of the President of the Republic, 302 - Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, 303 - Senate of Parliament, 312 - Ministry of Finance, 345 - Czech Statistical Office, 359 - Office of the National Budget Board, 396 - State Debt, 397 - Operation of State Financial Assets, 398 - General Treasury Administration; the Supervisory Committee of Chapter 371 - Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements, 381 - Supreme Audit Office; European Affairs Committee Chapter 398 - General Treasury Administration - Financial relations to the EU budget, the EEA, Norway and Switzerland excluding agricultural policy, including: General budgetary relations to the EU and financial mechanisms, state budget revenue - transfers to cover pre-financing, state budget expenditure - programmes and projects co-financed by the EU budget and FM and the contribution of the EU's own resources from the State budget to the EU budget; [[See book B, p. 35, 36 and 56 to 61]] Economic Committee of Chapter 322 - Ministry of Industry and Trade, 327 - Ministry of Transport, 328 - Czech Telecommunications Office, 344 - Industrial Property Office, 349 - Energy Regulatory Office, 353 - Office for the Protection of Competition, 373 - Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, 374 - Administration of State Material Reserves, 375 - State Office for Nuclear Safety; Furthermore, the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Chapter 336 - Ministry of Justice - part of the administrative and further summary of the whole chapter, 355 - Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, 358 - Constitutional Court; Defence Committee Chapter 307 - Ministry of Defence, 308 - National Security Office; Security Committee Chapter 305 - Security Information Service, 314 - Ministry of the Interior - part of security, fire protection and summary of the whole chapter, 336 - Ministry of Justice - part of prison, 376 - General Inspection of Security Corps, 378 - National Authority for Cyber and Information Security; Social Policy Committee Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs; Health Committee Chapter 335 - Ministry of Health; Committee for Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Chapter 321 - Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, 333 - Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, 334 - Ministry of Culture, Chapter 361 - Academy of Sciences, 362 - National Sports Agency, 377 - Technological Agency of the Czech Republic; the Election Committee, Chapter 372 - Radio and Television Broadcasting Council; Public Administration and Regional Development Committee Chapter 314 - Ministry of the Interior - Part Administrative, 317 - Ministry of Regional Development - Financial relations with budgets of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions; [[See G-book]] Committee on the Environment, Chapter 315 - Ministry of the Environment and Chapter 348 - Czech Mining Authority; Foreign Committee Chapter 306 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the agricultural committee then Chapter 329 - Ministry of Agriculture - the common agricultural policy - the link to the state budget and Chapter 346 - the Czech office of survey and cadastral; [[direct payments, direct payments from national sources, support for rural development, common organisation of the market]] IV. further commands the medium-term outlook of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the years 2021 and 2022 - the House's press 606 to the Budget Committee; V. Recommends to the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, in whose chapters the appropriations for the activities of non-profit and similar organisations are budgeted, to address the contributions to this activity. This is, please, the whole motion for a resolution, as approved by the Committee on Budgets and as tabled by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. And I promise my colleagues and colleagues that if they are not interested, I will appeal to this resolution and I will no longer read it whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Only the general debate is being held when discussing the state budget at first reading, and it was therefore necessary for this part of the motion for a resolution to be tabled. Of course, it won't be necessary if the Chamber of Deputies doesn't ask for it again, because it's in your press materials 605/1. I am now opening a general debate. The first entry is Ms. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. Tomio Okamura will be ready, and another with priority rights is Miroslav Kalousek and Vít Rakušan. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today for the first reading of one of the most important state budget laws for 2020. And I remind you, today's form was not born lightly. We could not support his first version as a social democracy. And it was the first time in the history of the independent Czech Republic when the coalition did not agree on the budget during the government vote. The reason was simple. A good budget must serve citizens and this did not meet his original proposal. The chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs lacked money for basic things, from social services to foster family care, child protection, etc. Especially so-called. non-mandatory expenses were cut to the bone. Some services would have to be virtually cancelled, others would be extremely limited. This concerned social work in municipalities, subsidy programmes for the prevention of family breakdown, the protection of seniors, foster care and the protection of vulnerable children. But after long and often hard negotiations, we have come to a compromise. In it, we have put an end to the imminent situation and, contrary to the original proposal, we have achieved significant improvements in a number of areas. We have averted the collapse of some services or the actual liquidation of useful grant programs. And because it's a compromise, from my point of view, it's not a perfect budget, but it's a good budget. We all had to count a lot, and we all had to lower a lot. But there are priorities we couldn't discount from. I believe that the state must not spare on people, save on investment and do not make blunt cuts. The state that abandons investment in people is doomed to decline. A state that can't take care of the youngest and oldest members of society can't call itself civilized. A state that saves on investment in science, research and technology is preserved in the past and is not competitive. A state that does not fulfil its obligations to allies is untrustworthy. [[10.50 hours]] It is this optic that needs to be assessed by this and any other budget. Not only does it say nothing about surplus or deficit. I think it's a great shame that we're actually trying to water the entire debate on the state budget. It is easy to cross through to the surplus. But, as we have seen in the time of right-wing governments, blunt cuts not only lead to prosperity but actively hinders it. Prosperity always brings only and only investment. This certainly applies to the Czech Republic, which draws its wealth from the art and work of people. We can hardly rely on any miraculous sudden discovery of a massive oil deposit in Central Bohemia or any other miraculous fortune. All we can do is rely on ourselves and people's ability to drive the state well. I am therefore glad that this budget thinks about these key investments. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget 2020 is counting on the basic priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As you know, beyond the original proposal of the Ministry of Finance, we negotiated another 5.9 billion for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Kč. We'll still get another 800 miles this year. CZK for the necessary modernisation of IT systems, which awaits us especially next year. Next year we can get another 1.3 billion according to their fulfillment. CZK to complete selected chapters. This concerns, for example, possible further wage growth in social services, the fulfilment of investment incentives that have been granted in the past, the drawing of European funds, etc. But most importantly, there is pension money in the budget. For the second time on average, we will increase pensions by CZK 900 on 1 January next year. We have the money to raise the parental allowance. After 12 years, parental allowance will increase to 300 thousand. CZK and I hope that in the coming days this promise of our government will be fulfilled. But we also have money to raise salaries in the state sector. Just to remind you, with regard to the growth of pensions, by 1 January next year the average pension in the Czech Republic will be CZK 14,326. But this does not mean that all seniors reach this average amount. There are over a million seniors and especially seniors who can't achieve such a dizzying amount of CZK 14 326 after two record increases. As far as salaries in the state sector are concerned, they will increase by CZK 1,500 across the board from next year. It's what we do to help the weakest civil servants. Moreover, because of the cancellation of the so-called first salary table, where the worst paid civil servants fall, these people will still improve by about another 600 CZK. We also invest more in preventing the breakdown of families. Nobody wants kids to end up in institutional care if they don't have to. I guess I don't have to explain that institutional care is more expensive for the state. We therefore invest 120 miles in the family's national grant title. CZK, which is an increase of 20 percent after 10 years and an increase of 20 percent compared to the current state. Our population is getting older, and it needs to be adapted. In the future, we must therefore ensure an adequate network of homes for the elderly. That is why I am pleased that we have already negotiated for the second time for investments of this type of half a billion crowns, which is also more than this year. However, this amount is not enough. Therefore, I hope that in the coming years, so that we can cope with the challenge of ageing the population, we will be able to raise funds from European sources for the construction of social care facilities, because this will make the state budget much easier and at the same time it is a very important infrastructure investment. Ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Social Policy, this budget is relatively modest, but it allows us to maintain key services for citizens of the Czech Republic. It develops aid to the oldest and youngest members of society. From this point of view, it is an acceptable compromise for me. Again, I think it's a good budget. Simply put, the budget isn't set up splurgely, it's just taking responsibility where the state should have it. The state must not save on people and especially not on children, seniors or disabled people. That is why I am asking you to support this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u9	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I will read the apology made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 10.45 to 12.00, Mr Marek Výborný apologies for his work. Jan Skopeček will now have the floor on the factual remark, with priority rights prepared by Vice-President Tomio Okamura. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, have prepared my contribution to the state budget assessment. I'll be performing in a standard discussion with a standard application. However, I would like to respond to Minister Maláčová. Of course, I do not agree with 90 percent of what she said, including one of the last sentences, that the budget is not expendable. I don't know what Minister Maláčová would have liked to imagine under the word "expensive" when we have a deficit of 40 billion at a time of economic growth and minimum unemployment. Kč. But that's the political disagreement. I was surprised by one sentence. I would like to ask Minister Maláčová if she really means her words about the fact that the deficit or surplus is a meaningless number. If he really means it. Whether the state manages what others earn and give to the state in the form of taxes, if the secretary really doesn't care whether the state can manage it or not, whether it creates surpluses and can save or manage the deficit. If we have the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who manages the biggest chapter in the state budget, then the words are that the surplus or deficit doesn't say anything, in tragic, scary words. What are public finances supposed to look like, so when the warden most important, the biggest chapters here say on the microphone the words that the surplus or deficit is a non-speaking number? That's completely insane.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mrs Gajdůšková and still waiting with priority right is Vice-President Tomio Okamura. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. There is only one sentence for his previous speaker, Mr Skopeček. That's the point of view. Social democracy is convinced that we need to take care of people, that the finances that are being spent must go for the benefit of the people. Of course, we're interested in the numbers, but people are important to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Real comment by Mrs Valachová, Jiří Dolejš and Jan Skopeček. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u14	Mr President, by your means to my colleague, Skopečka. As an economic expert, I suppose he really understood what Jana Maláčová wanted to say. We know, and we are not only witnessing this now, but it was also in the previous term that, although we are planning a deficit, there are even surplus budgets, or even balanced ones. That is what I think was what Mrs Maláčová wanted to highlight. I don't think that's a good thing, in line with Mr. Skopeček. I would also like what we are planning to do here to be fulfilled and to plan straight-balanced or even surplus budgets. I think that, not during the current debate, we will certainly return to this again, but it has already been said by the Minister of Finance on several occasions on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parties in the light of the explanation, how it will happen that we are planning a deficit and then there will be a surplus or a balanced budget. I think that this is definitely better news for citizens than if it were the other way around. I don't think - I agree with Mr. Skopeček here that that would be right. On the other hand, I must oppose the fact that Jana Maláčová labeled it, or meant that there is a surplus or a deficit, and I personally think about intelligence - through you, Mr President - Mr Skopeček, that she knows this and that it was rather a political figure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague, Jiří Dolejš, also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't hold back, but if I'm listening to this orange-blue duel, I'd like to point out that without having the ambition to reconcile those who think they're rationally saving themselves, and they're calling the other one irrationally wasteful, that reality is a little different. And it's not just political figures, it's a broader economic context. Please, the structural deficit and the proposed budget are completely in tolerance with regard to budgetary targeting. The state's debt for the past five or six years is essentially stable, even if it goes up and down for a while, it has actually gone up a little bit, but that's only because the rating allows us to sell so cheap government bonds that it pays off and that we're gonna make money on it in the future. This is reality, please. So let's not freak out. I think that pragmatically this budget is even set up in such a way that if there was a recession or economic crisis, if there wasn't space dimensions, there are even certain reserves to keep it going, including brexit and other such little things. Because if you do the math, for example. Brexit, so its actual impact is about three quarters of a percentage point into GDP. So that's the reality. If you want to continue with how well you've done it in the past, those budgets, it's possible. But this is a budget that is a compromise, and as a pragmatic compromise it is acceptable, identified by tripartite, and in a way accepts the state of public finances currently, in the short term, as consolidated and as essentially quality, also by the National Budget Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Skopeček's factual comment and one more factual comment by Marian Jurečka. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u18	Mr President's response to both honored colleagues. Well, my dear colleague, maybe if the secretary had a bit of decency in her and the moment I asked her from the counter, and she was here and she knew my question was pointing to her, and she didn't leave the hall, she could have defended herself and you didn't have to be a little embarrassed about her for the secretary. She could honor a fellow Member and answer a question that was asked when the Minister was in the hall. She was leaving the O.R. with a smile. That's what you have, Madam Secretary. Then you have to iron her speeches here. That's for starters. Mrs. Gajdůšková. Don't make yourself the only right person to care about people. We're talking about people, too. We also care about those people who are taxed, because of your government, there is a tax quota at the highest level of history. That's what these people have to pay for. Of course, we are in favour of rational social policy, for the State to help people who are simply in some difficult social situation through the money of other taxpayers, but that is not at the moment. Minister Maláčová was tasked with reviewing social benefits because we all know that the system is inefficient, and the money goes to people who do not deserve it today and do not need it. To this day, Minister Maláčová has not been able to do so. And one last time to my colleague Valachová. Yes, deficits are different from plans in the finals, but that should be the rhetoric of the opposition. This is the inability of the Ministry of Finance to see that, at a time of relatively good economic growth, low unemployment, without any disasters, the deficits fall differently than the Ministry of Finance planned. I would rather expect that from an opposition Member who will be beating the Minister for not being able to prepare the state budget well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u19	Now, Mr Jurečka with a point of fact and Mrs Gajdůškovášková with another point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u20	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, it was a good habit that, in the past, when the Minister spoke for his budget chapter, he remained here for some time so that he could subsequently respond to any technical and factual questions in the debate, in order to defend his budget chapter and to explain the issues. Here we saw that the Secretary of State burned this place down, and then Secretary Maláčová picked up and left this hall. By the way, when we look at the government benches and the coalition benches, so many of those who would be interested, of course, are critically opposed, unfortunately many of these Members are not sitting here today. About an estimate of maybe 30 percent now, at this point. But now, let me ask you, I have two more technical requests. If members of the government and colleagues could speak the normal language here, because when a member of the government comes out and another Member has to come forward and interpret what a member of the government has to say to us, it seems at least comical, if not incompetent. Using such turnovers as a "political figure" - I admit, I don't understand what that means. Somebody explain to me what it means when someone says "he meant it so that it was a political figure." I don't know, I don't think the people watching us understand either. And then the third thing about Mr Dolejš through Mr President. I really do not think that the period of recent years of economic growth and prosperity is due to the fact that we have a good rating as the Czech Republic and that we have managed to issue some issues of our government bonds with a negative interest rate. If the prosperity of the Czech Republic was behind this, I really don't think so. I think it's mainly thanks to the people who work, thanks to the companies that do well. We have record low unemployment, and these people, whether in direct or indirect taxes, are paying revenue to the state budget, and we are doing well because of that. The fact that several emissions have been sold this way, yes, it is a small bonus extra, but it has not brought us the prosperity that we now have, which unfortunately for future years we are eating through the draft deficit budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now one more factual comment by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and one more factual comment by Mrs Valachová. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry that I don't like to be held up by factual remarks, so I don't like to do it myself, but I just have to respond. Three short notes. First of all, the different point of view, the purely mathematical one, the strangling one, the right-wing governments have done it twice in this short 30-year history. Social democracy has always turned the trend around, pulled the country out of the economic problems that were, just by investing in people, by supporting consumption, by supporting investment. I would have responded to Mr Skopeček whether the Minister was here or not. Note number two, back to the played song - welfare benefits. What you're talking about, what are real social benefits, that is, helping in material distress, or those benefits that really go to those people who can't make a living on their own for some reason, so that's just 2 percent of all those social transfers. That's two. And three. Yes, we pay taxes, we all pay taxes. And I'm from Mr. . Mühlfeit, a cosmopolitan man, an economist, heard at one of the conferences: Taxes are the best and basically the only investment of middle classes. Why? Because these investments provide public services, available education, affordable health, transport, the environment, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I warn you that the factual point is not to comment on this, but to react. [[unintelligible]] And here we have a chain reaction that, in my opinion, goes beyond the principle of factual comment. Mrs. Valachová, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u24	Briefly, yeah. The current government, in which there is social democracy and the movement YES, and the previous government, in which the movement YES, social democracy and KDU-ČSL was in, ultimately from the point of view of the finals, regardless of the plan, managed either surplusly or evenly. If this is the rhetoric of the opposition, then I think Mrs Schillerová as Secretary of Finance, through you, is just smiling. What I wanted to say is that the proposal, which is repeatedly deficitd, of course no one wants it, we would like to have it as it really ends up, I also referred to the fact that, without a doubt, the Minister of Finance will comment on it, as he has already said several times in the House - I am not an expert on the budget or the economy, but if I speak to experts, they say that this error in the plan, which is really not in the interests of the citizens, because it will eventually end up in surplus or balanced, so I do not know if anyone is being abused in our country, rather, on the contrary, it lies, among other things, that, for objective reasons in recent years, it is worse to estimate the development of exchange in foreign trade and also European funds. Like I said, I'm not an expert, so I'm assuming the Treasury will comment. This isn't a criticism, it's a statement of facts. [[11.10 hours]] As far as political figures are concerned, I meant it so that I have no doubt through the President that Mr Skopeček could hardly suspect Mrs Maláčová from the point of view of his expertise that the surplus or deficit does not matter. It was meant in that sense, and I think we all understood that. I hope that's understandable enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Skopeček's point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u26	Mrs Valachová, we did not understand this from Minister Maláčová. It's very nice of you to defend her like this. I say, once again, she could have stayed here, she knew she was going to ask her a question, she could have explained it herself. But from Minister Maláčová we have heard so much economic nonsense, paradoxes, things that just don't apply in reality that I take that statement very seriously. And it really scares me when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who manages the most important public finance department, which I'm sure the Minister will confirm, the Minister is very dependent on her in the sense that if she can do something about the social system, she'll either untie it or tie her hands to it, even with the final budget deficit. And the secretary here will seriously say that deficit or surplus is a number that doesn't say anything. It just scares me from the secretary who has the most taxpayers' money and manages it. Mrs. Gajdůšková. If we're going to argue and fight together in some way, let's figure out a number first. You're saying that social democracy has always had to put that country together after the ODS government and invest in helping them. Look at the rate of investment in right-wing governments, when they still had to manage when the euro-American economic crisis was here, when the revenues of the state budget were significantly lower. At the time, investments were above 10 percent of the total state budget expenditure. Take a look at how much investment is made in the draft budget for next year. It's below 10 percent. So now that you're arguing with investment, figure out the numbers, and you'd find that the ODS had a relatively higher investment than you're counting on next year. I think before we really argue with each other, it would be good to study it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Tomio Okamura will prepare Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Rakušan with priority rights. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to evaluate the budget, I have to comment on what Mrs AlenaGajdůšková said here, when she said that the ČSSD, when it was in the government, was always thinking about citizens and that citizens always had more money. Some kind of untruth like that. So I would just remind you that this year the Supreme Audit Office found financial irregularities in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs just under the direction of Minister Maláčová for ČSSD worth 12 billion. CZK, and it is not the first irregularities that are there for the ČSSD leadership, when the Minister for the ČSSD, in the past it was Minister Marksová Tominová - who he found there. It's in billions of crowns. And I ask, when will the ČSSD bring direct material responsibility? When will he take any responsibility for these financial irregularities at all? And I will continue to draw up how the ČSSD ruled in the Czech Republic. I will. Minister of Finance Ivo Svoboda from the ČSSD tunneled the company for the production of Liberta strollers. In 2005, the Prague Supreme Court, together with his advisor Barbora Snopková, sentenced him to five years in prison for tunning the company. That was the Minister for the CSSD. Next, we have the cocoa affair of a longtime member of the ČSSD Michal Kraus. But I would have talked about her for a long time. I will therefore concentrate on another example of the life of Mr Michal Kraus. During his presidency in the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, the Committee decided to allocate a subsidy to the non-profit sports centre in Harrachov. However, instead of a non-profit sports centre, the subsidy was used to build a luxury hotel for PV REAL z Prostějov. And the same company built several apartment houses in the hotel's neighborhood, and in one of them in 2006 Krausův's 19-year-old son Pavel bought the apartment. And in 2009 Michal Kraus bought an apartment in the same house. In the opinion of some journalists, it was actually a reward for the allocated grant for the construction of the hotel. The whole case later affected the resignation of the then President of the Chamber of Deputies Miloslav Vlček for the ČSSD, on whose proposal the subsidy was decided in the Committee on Budgets. I'll keep going. The case that the ČSSD had in its government or its political capacity is infinite. So I only pick a few. If by any chance one of the Members wants to respond to this, I will apply and add infinitely many other examples to the priority right. And it is only up to ČSSD members whether they will contradict it and whether we will repeat it here for even longer and more detail and further cases. So I'm gonna keep going. From the busy workshop, in quotation marks, ČSSD we know the Grossův's apartment affair. Yes, it is former Prime Minister Stanislav Gross, specifically the unclear source of financing of his apartment in Prague in Barrandov for almost 4.3 miles. Crowns. He was criticized for his explanations about the alleged loan through the poor uncle. At the same time, the media pointed out that a company owned by Šárka Grossová bought a house for 5.9 miles. CZK and for the loan for its acquisition was said by businesswoman Libuše Barková, the operator of the brothel, who was prosecuted for insurance fraud. Well, I'll just pick. I'll just say the famous case of five Czechs on the table. Former secretary of Czech Prime Ministers Gross and Paroubek from ČSSD Zdeněk Doležel offered to Polish lobbyist Jacek Spyr that he was 5 miles away. CZK will provide information on the privatisation of Unipetrol. So that's the good management that the ČSSD MPs are saying here, how well did they manage when they were in government? Well, let's get another one, let's get a little closer to the present. I also remind Petr Zgarba of ČSSD. In April 2005 Jaroslav Palas became Minister of Agriculture in the Government of Jiří Paroubek. At the same time he became President of the Presidium of the Land Fund of the Czech Republic. He was criticized for abuse of authority and implementation of the selection procedure for Český Telecom without a selection procedure. In November 2005, he resigned following a scandal with a non-standard sale of state land. And that was the Minister of Agriculture for the CSSD. It was found that in the summer of 2005, the land fund allocated valuable land to speculators in the vicinity of Prague at minimum prices. Now I don't know if I should go on. I'll say two more things. We also have the case of the ROP Northwest - this is where the European subsidies are divided - on which important politicians of the ČSSD participated. This scandal concerns the non-discriminatory distribution of European subsidies in the so-called NUTS 2 Cohesion Region Northwest and concerns the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. According to the prosecution, in exchange for bribes, approval of the grant was influenced by three projects, whereby the defendants accepted or planned to accept a bribe of at least 2.8 million. Crowns. So it's the CSSD again. And maybe just in the end - I've got about ten pages here. So let's see if there's any reaction. If not, I'll close it now, but if I do, I'll open it again. So maybe I would just mention that David Rath, the former top politician of the ČSSD, who was the Governor of the Central Bohemia Region and the Minister of Health, was sentenced, at that stage, to corruption and to manipulation of public contracts for the punishment of 8.5 years in prison. As we know, the prison sentence has already begun. So I only focused on the ČSSD MPs, the ČSSD ministers. So this is how the CSSD ruled us here. So that's reality, that's facts, everyone can track them down. And back to the budget. I'm here to strongly defy the untruths - I'm saying this with confidence because it concerns the lady - what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said here, Mrs. Maláčová. Unfortunately, it is also the untruths that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is showing, and he says that the government has increased pensions by 900 crowns. Well, that's a lie. So let's just say it right now. One. On the basis of the law, an average of CZK 750 is determined. So whatever government is here, whatever government it is, it has to increase by CZK 750 by law. So don't tell the truth. It's a lie that you're raising 900 crowns. And it's even a lie even more detailed. Because the seniors themselves know that many of them will not increase by 900 crowns. Because you of the 900 crowns on average, as I say, 750 crowns are legal. That means, even if governments were SPD, ODS, Pirates, anyone who isn't in government would have to raise the CZK 750 by law. [[11.20 hours]] So you only raised an average of 150 crowns, because 150 crowns is an increase that goes beyond the legal valorization. Anyway, what's the reality? That many pensioners will in fact only increase by CZK 371, not by 900. And the seniors themselves, those who have lower pensions, they know that very well, so you don't have to hang their nostrils here. And only nine out of ten pensioners increase by at least CZK 750, including the statutory valorisation. This means that we must say that the 900 crowns - far from being reached by all pensioners, and I stress again, tell the truth that you are increasing by 150 crowns. The decision of you, the government, is 150 crowns. 750 is legal. But let's also say B. You allowed the cost of living to be so expensive in the Czech Republic that there is nothing left for those pensioners anyway. The cost here - and there are more factors, the reasons, the causes, is more, of course, the way the basic food in the Czech Republic has become more expensive, the way the energy has become more expensive, yet the elderly, both disabled and old, have nothing left in their wallets. Even many tell me that even less. They're still negative compared to earlier. And I'll tell you this is the government's fault, because the Polish and Hungarian governments have put a stop to electricity prices at the level of last year. The Polish Government, because they are patriotic governments, is even attracted by the European Commission for this reason. But you guys bailed. You just let those electricity prices rise, you bailed on the citizens of the Czech Republic, which is why the price of electricity was significantly increased. Again, I stress that the Polák and Maďar, where there are patriotic parties in government, similar to us, the SPD, were, of course, brave and put a stop to the prices so that the Polák, the Maďar, would not get more expensive. The SPD was not lazy, and this spring we gave a constitutional complaint against the increase in energy prices in cooperation with the former director of the Energy and Regulatory Office, Mrs.Alena Vitásková, who, of course, as an expert, basically processed the complaint for us, and we filed it. Or she processed it. That means, and the result was that the Constitutional Court rejected this constitutional complaint. He turned her down, like, two weeks ago. This means that you have simply made the cost of living more expensive to the citizens of the Czech Republic, and now you are saying that you are not telling the truth that you are raising pensions by CZK 900, and it is only CZK 150, and really, I had to set it right here. And again, I'm saying that even your increase in 150 crowns is unfair, and the pension system that you're holding here, because I'm like the SPD, I'm saying that it should raise everyone the same amount. We as SPD want to raise the same amount to all seniors. Not by increasing the percentage, which means the poorer pensioners are getting less and the richer pensioners are getting more, you're opening up the social scissors between them. You don't close them. You increase the differences between poor and richer pensioners. And the fact that you can raise it by one amount, we know that. After all, we have ourselves voted on a proposal where seniors over 85 years have increased their lump sum. So it's possible, only you don't want to do it. You, on the other hand, are harming the elderly, the majority of the elderly who have lower pensions. So before I even wanted to comment on the budget, to set the truths and half-truths that Minister Maláčová and the ČSSD say about how well they managed in the past and how well they were here when they were in government, so they took care of the citizens. Based on those cases that I have here really ten pages, I think that mainly Members and Ministers took care of their own pockets. [[shows materials]] I'm not saying everyone, but those who are already convicted and in prison, which I think is quite clear, and I hope no one will question it. I'm stressing again, in which case I'd like to start here and go on the microphone again, I've got a lot of stuff here. So I'm hoping that we can end this point now, and that they won't even be attacking me by uncovering it here, and that I'm reminding you, because then we'd have to do it again in real detail. And we'll go back to the substantive debate on the state budget. Unfortunately, the draft state budget is still a simple equation for us. Its result is an absolutely unnecessary additional debt of 40 billion. Crowns. Better times have been and the budget absolutely doesn't count on it. Instead of having reserves for future problems, it gives away for immediate consumption. There is little investment, and it reduces our country's readiness for existing problems, and this will be a decline in the economy, a decline in income, a decline in employment, and, on the contrary, an increase in the need for social spending. The SPD movement, of course, supports the growth of pensions, salaries and other social expenditures for the citizens needed, but we will not support this overall misstructured budget. With regard to any future estimates, it must be said that the recession, and apparently economic, is already on its way. Only various instruments in the US and in Europe were able to delay it. He has to come, of course. As autumn and winter come after spring and summer, when nature rids itself of all the weak so that it can emerge with full power in the spring, the economic crisis comes cyclically. A good farmer will sow as much in the spring as possible to reap in the summer what he will need in the winter. And, of course, a good caretaker prepares for the winter. This is a fundamental form of good economic policy of both the company and the state. But the government's prepared state budget for 2020 does not contain these principles. We have a very serious problem. Car sales in the US decreased by more than 10 percent year on year for some brands. Large European engineering corporations are down by 70 percent. Yes, up to 70 percent. These are the top managers' numbers, granted this year at the Brno Engineering Fair. According to engineering experts, the decline has been sustained since 2017. Whether or not the US trade war erupts with China, it is quite clear that President Trump's policy will have one priority before the presidential elections - national interest and the benefit of American companies. This means even more pressure on protectionism and protectionist measures than before, and this is already the European Union in a real trade war with the US, and we are at risk of all kinds of restrictions on European exports to the US. The United States will introduce retaliatory duties of 10 per cent on European aircraft and 25 per cent on agricultural and industrial goods. They thus respond to the illegal subsidisation of the European aircraft manufacturer Airbus. The World Trade Organisation has authorised the United States to charge customs duties on goods from the European Union of around 177 billion. crowns a year. That's just a few selected facts about the situation. What about the government's proposed Czech state budget? The government YES, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM does not manage with the care of a proper economic operator. In our opinion, the draft budget should be balanced or surplus. For the SPD, it is totally unacceptable to renew individual budget chapters in areas of non-adjustable social benefits. Indeed, we refuse to keep working and decent people paying social benefits to those who are inadaptable. Furthermore, we have a problem with the financing of the failed inclusion in education, which we have always criticized, and it turns out that our words are taking place. We also resent the financing of political non-profit organizations and the number of foreign operations of our army, because the military should primarily serve to defend our country. Although the proposal envisages abolishing the number of civil servants' tables, it is essentially only those vacant ones, so it does not actually reduce the numbers in the state administration and bureaucracy. The SPD movement clearly states that it should be saved in the above mentioned areas and further debt is thus an unnecessary burden on the future generation. Moreover, there is no money needed to increase disability and old-age pensions and support for working families with children, which are the key priorities of our SPD to increase, really increase disability and old-age pensions and support the proper and working citizens. If we look at the budget distorted as an accountant in just one year, it's not 40 billion. State debt for next year's too high a figure. That's what the government is trying to manipulate us. The average value of the state budget deficit since the establishment of the Czech Republic is around 50 billion. But there's also a stumbling block. Average debt 50 billion. for 24 long years, it's already given a high number that's still growing. [[11.30 hours]] Yes, we have a variable and sometimes declining share of debt against GDP, but that is a very distorted figure. Debt just grows and doesn't fall. And if anyone else were to manage it, he's already in insolvency. Such management is demonstrated by the current government and, among other things, by the current governments. The Czech Republic receives the cost of service of state debt, i.e. fees and interest, by borrowing again. We are still at what we criticize in principle for individuals, i.e. hammering a wedge with a wedge when someone borrows on debt again. In commercial cases, in companies, state prosecutors currently qualify such behaviour as a criminal offence. But the current irresponsible government is gambling with the lives of all citizens. A normal person should compare government debt not with GDP, but with income. The draft state budget envisages total revenues of over 1.5 billion. The koruna and debt are currently roughly 1.7 beatings. CZK, with this number growing in time. However, this debt must also be attributed to the obligations that the State is required to pay to pensioners, civil servants, parents and the like. In this respect, its liabilities exceed assets and revenues. I understand that debts are part of the legacy of all previous governments, when public property was stolen massively, and that is what I was talking about a while ago on specific examples, and the state was increasingly indebted. I know that the state budget deficit was the highest during the entire existence of the Czech Republic in 2009 under the ODS and under the Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, the ex-chief of the people and founder of the TOP 09. The debt was 192.4 billion for him in particular. CZK - the annual deficit of the state budget. [[Member Podal brought a bottle of water to the speaker's desk.]] I am a politician and I fully understand the pain of politicians and party bosses in making a budget. What they criticized from opposition benches must then do on their own. He's afraid to fire a civil servant because the clerk is also a voter, and he has to get a raise. On the contrary, the more people I feed, the greater the chance that they will vote for me, and so the government has been growing for years, regardless of who's leading it. There is no way in which the SPD does not question the necessary civil servants, because, of course, the state cannot do without them, and we appreciate them very much. Sponsors are needed for some parties, so investment is growing, often overpriced and sometimes unnecessary and inefficient, because their aim is primarily to give orders to past and future sponsors. As you know, this issue does not concern the SPD at all, it concerns other parties. Many state firms are inefficient because they are run by incompetent people. But they lead them because they're lucrative news outlets for parties and co-workers. An example is the Czech Post, which produces losses in the world boom of mail order services. Instead of flying overpriced incompetent managers and the Interior Minister, who is responsible for the operation of the Czech Post and is responsible for all of this, 7,000 will fly. people who haven't caused this condition. This means delivery women with those heavy bags on wheels, who at minimum wage walk with shipments in the rain, in winter, such and similar people who need to fly away, while the overpriced incompetent managers headed by the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for the Czech post office in the government, sit on warm spots. We don't agree with that in the SPD. Seemingly, someone might be pleased that the state administration of these 7,000. People slim down, but the opposite is true. On the contrary, the post office could be the only one of the state companies that could both provide work, but at the same time generate the profits needed for the miserable budget presented by the government. The Government's National Budget Board claims, and I would like to stress that it is the Government's National Budget Board, that we are in a situation where we either have to raise taxes or cut pensions. That's bullshit, because there's a logical and fairer way, and it's just to make good money. South Bohemia Budvar is a perfect profitable state company, among other things, because politicians and friends of friends just don't fit in the specialized brewery industry. What prevents the State from hiring PPL, DHL or other courier, logistics or other companies who actually know their work? So far, we're being prevented from being partisan ministers who just have to secure a corset for their cronies. The mail was proven to have been the cortex for years. And don't tell me that capable managers in normal management places in the Czech Republic in PPL and DHL have an income of 8 miles. CZK received by the former director of the Czech Post Elkán on his departure from the Czech Post. It would come even cheaper - to hire real pros. Indeed, the state's staff and many state functions are growing immensely. Between 2014 and 2019 this is an increase of about 45 thousand. civil servants and more than 3,200 of them at the central government offices. This, of course, also increases the volume of salaries in the state sector, which increased by more than 77 billion. Crowns. And I reject government populism in this argument, which turns the debate on firemen and policemen. Firefighters, police officers, teachers, nurses and other highly needed professions of the SPD support and we very much appreciate their work. I'm talking about unbearably growing bureaucracy. Since the entry into the House in 2013, I have imposed a flat-rate tax on businessmen, and I have called on the government to implement it in the House since the first moment it started flirting with proposals for EET in 2015. After about five years, we may see it next year. For having adopted at least some good idea from the opposition, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, but he is here. Why did such a simple change last so long? She's not there yet, so it's taking so long. Why can't the government implement a good, tested idea right away? Why is he losing not only years but also money and years of life by testing dead ends? We would save thousands of EET officials and save hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs' jobs and money. And again, so the secretary wouldn't hold me to the word that a few hundred were accepted on the EET, those secondary effects, the secondary positions that also concern it, of course, there are a lot more. The debate on the budget will always turn into a debate on what chapter to add to and where to reduce. As I repeat every time, it's a laity theater. It doesn't really matter if the army has 1 or 2 percent of GDP, but the important thing is what and how effectively it takes and how effectively money is spent. And here is the stumbling block that the government of Andrej Babiš from the ČSSD and the KSČM refuse to address. For decades, we have the Supreme Audit Office, which annually notes the waste or even thefts of billions. But the result is still the same, it has minimal influence on ministries and other organizations, and responsible ministers are not held accountable. I would just like to remind you that for two years now we have had our draft law on the direct substantive responsibility of all those who manage public funds, including ministers and chieftains, including executive politicians, and other political parties refuse to approve or at least discuss this proposal. For full clarity, if we don't have the efficiency of the money spent, we're essentially talking about how much money we're going to spend and where we're going to pour into the canal. At the same time, individual resorts really need money. Thank you for increasing the Ministry of Justice's budget because there is desperately missing money to deal with citizens' complaints of injustice. I hope the Ministry will use them on this agenda. But, and once again we are with money, every year not only the number of complaints about injustice grows, but also the amount of money that the state is obliged to pay for the errors of justice and officials. I quite logically think that the state should be able to deal with the misconceptions and crimes of justice and to pursue initiatives from citizens, and, on the other hand, I absolutely refuse that the state should pay for errors, not say crimes and illegal acts, decisions of the authorities, judges and prosecutors, from the money of the citizens. This must be paid by those who cause the cost. And you know that according to the state's attorney's degree, there are even double-digit cases a year where the prosecutor proposes to accuse the person and in a two-digit percentage probability, the person is released in court. [[11.40 hours]] This concerns, above all, the Attorney General's office. The higher the state's attorney's office, the higher the percentage even, which is catastrophic, that someone here - state machinery, including prosecutors - will destroy a good citizen's life. Even the odds are double-digit. I've got that graph up here. It's a shame I didn't bring him here to the counter, but maybe there'll be an opportunity. Basically, two digits is the probability of a percentage of you being charged and then released in court. That's crazy. The lives of blameless people will be ruined. Those people can hardly go back to society, because people will say, "A little bit on every rack of truth." But then the state pays for the state's attorneys. And it's huge millions a year, huge millions a year, which must be worth paying for these proceedings. I got that number upstairs. I suspect that it is only this year over 100 million crowns, this year over 130 million approx., that it is only this year, in the last year, that it has been paid out of state money to the citizens as compensation for being wrongly - unjustly - driven by the prosecutor's attorneys to the court and there it turned out that they were blameless. Crazy situation. I would never want to experience it. I would never want to experience it so that someone in my neighborhood would destroy life like this and civilly destroy it basically for life, and it turns out that this man is blameless. And I say, in the Czech Republic, the probability is even 2-digit percent. And that's scary. And that's what we should be talking about here, too. And that's why I'm gonna take a little turn. In any case, the SPD movement is for us to strengthen the direct responsibility of prosecutors for our actions, because it is not possible for a state in the state to arise here. And the graphs, the numbers, and I got them, I got them all official, so they're really crazy. That's not even alarming. That's scary. But back to what I said here that the state is currently obliged to pay for the errors of justice and officials without the sole direct material responsibility of basically those who are causing it. I quite logically think that the state should be able to solve the misconceptions and crimes of justice and to pursue the impulses of citizens. On the other hand, I absolutely refuse to make mistakes, to say no crimes or illegal acts from the decisions of the authorities, judges and prosecutors, to be paid by the state out of citizens' money. That's what people who cause costs have to pay. Like travel agencies or other areas, maybe prosecutors can make up their own salary for example in a mandatory fund to pay for it themselves. Or there may be a limit, for example, that they will have participation, so that they can simply be clearly motivated to pursue their work with even greater care, so that these things do not occur. Once again, we take this as a model example of what we should be talking about here, because the state budget, its spending and revenue at this point do not reflect real needs or real possibilities and is largely just an accounting formal plan. Changes are really necessary, as the current trend that if there is no money, we will take it away from someone is neither very intelligent nor sustainable. On the next issue of the state budget and the related matter. The amount of the compound tax quota in the Czech Republic is constantly increasing. Citizens of the Czech Republic should also know that. In 2019 it is expected to grow to less than 36%. That's very high. In 2015, this was only 32,6 %. This means, during the reign of the YES, the ČSSD movement and then it was still in the coalition with the KDU-ČSL during the last parliamentary term, today it is supported by YES, the state is pulverizing the working and decent citizens more and more. It's completely provable. And we at the SPD can't agree with that at all, especially when money is being spent, as I said before, benefits are increasing to unadaptable, political nonprofits are being paid huge money. Soldiers are somewhere abroad, while France, who is also a member of NATO, has withdrawn the troops, so it will not stand up to the argument that we have to fulfil the allied obligations. That's nonsense. And there are other unnecessary expenses. But the state simply turns away those who have the decency and work and live a proper life because it dares them. But not inadaptable. And that's a crazy budget design that the SPD will in no way support. It's just not possible to take people and spend their money forever - those working people. Life is much easier for people to improve. Let's simplify their work and their life. Let's make their lives cheaper. Let us rid them of bureaucracy, fees, and many unnecessary taxes. And we don't have to add that much to them. Even the government is so desperate that we are discussing a bill that the government seems to push through this year that it even wants a deposit fee for the real estate register, which is to increase from 1,000 to CZK 2,000. Even a member of the ANO movement Martin Kolovratník has also proposed an increase in the motorway stamp to CZK 2 000. And we've already voted on that. Fortunately, we've rejected it here. So the government is already taking such desperate steps, that even though the D1 has the condition it has, and the Czech roads and highways specifically, so even an ANO member here has suggested, and we voted on increasing the road signs to CZK 2,000. That's an impertinent suggestion. But that it's already desperate, it's really a very significant example. And we are fundamentally against it. And as for the fact that the government is not even trying to make this life cheaper, I have already talked about this, see the electricity prices, when the Polish and Hungarian governments have put the price on last year's prices, so that they will not make it more expensive to citizens, the current government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, has abandoned it. The SPD filed a constitutional complaint where we wanted to reverse it. The Constitutional Court rejected it. So you've even made people's lives even more expensive compared to the countries around you. And within the EU, it was possible to do so. This is also seen in two examples of neighbouring countries that have acceded to this. You guys just bailed. People want a safe country. They want the administration of public affairs without unnecessary bureaucracy. And they want quality and cheap services. This should be the focus of both government and parliament. That should be the point of the state budget. Surveys in the US have shown that where citizens have the opportunity to decide directly in referendums on taxes, on laws, on politicians, the government is cheaper, on taxes and on state fees, and at the same time there is much more satisfaction with state services than with countries where direct democracy is not, or to a lesser extent. This is one of the many reasons why the SPD movement, as the only party in the Czech Parliament, promotes full direct democracy. By the way, we've had our draft referendum bill here again for two years. For two years, we've had a draft law from the SPD pen on direct decision-making by politicians. You guys just keep blocking this place. And we believe that, as is the case in the private sector, only the direct personal responsibility of the responsible, that is, those who manage public funds, can lead us to improve the management of public funds. After all, so - called material responsibility agreement - has closed waitresses and shopkeepers. And when they have a manko, they charge them that night. How is it that it doesn't apply this way to politicians and they're basically completely uneconomical? The biggest misfortune is when money is not decided by the one who works and pays, but by the one who has it in his pocket for free. That is why budget debates are not really a big deal, whoever is in the government's current system. As long as politicians do not have a direct responsibility, they will be interested in passing the interests of citizens who make money on the budget with their hands or with their heads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u29	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Mr Jan Chvojka is registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. I didn't want to react today, I have the worst disease a man can have, a cold. But I have to go to my colleague Okamura. First of all, his obsession with social democracies, where basically every law that goes through must mention social democracy, so I think it's almost a diagnosis. And I almost feel that Mr Okamura sometimes had to apply for the membership of the ČSSD in the past and was not granted because otherwise he could not have such a grudge with the ČSSD. After all, I remembered, just as Mr Okamura remembered, those different characters were socdem and really many of them were bizarre, but I don't remember any of them because I didn't sit here. But I do know, for example, that when I was in the Czech Social Democratic Party for a year and I ran for some 40th place in the regional elections that I was on the train Česká Třebová - Moravská Třebová, who was full of Social Democrats, supported us by Tomio Okamura. So the one who actually now says how the socdem was corrupt in those years from 1989 until now, and he himself supported us in the election campaign, for example, in 2008 in the regional election campaign. [[11.50 hours]] As far as I'm concerned - and I'm not gonna react anymore, we can tell each other what they did with the socdem and what they were bad at in history. I say, there's a name when you have butter on your head, don't go to the sun. And I think Mr. Okamura ran a little bit, because when I look for example. In the last two weeks, ten days, there have been three articles about Mr. Okamur, where he reacts to the fact that he did something - and I don't want to be sued, so let's call it creative accounting or some little house. And also, someone might say - I'm not saying it, but someone might say that they're playing a little bit of money into their pocket, and I don't see anything good about it. So, Mr. Okamura, please stop constantly leaning into the CSSD. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u32	Let us do this simply, Mr Chvojka, Member of the ČSSD, through the President. You're accusing me here, so now, if you're not a coward, you're gonna file a criminal report. And if it doesn't work out, you're gonna publicly apologize for your dirty accusations. You have butter on your head. You, CSSD. So don't do the debate any other way. Now you're blaming some accusation that somebody's getting a little home. Give me a criminal report. Don't talk nonsense here on the live broadcast of Czech Television. You're taking advantage of the citizens hearing this. So, as a good man, file a criminal report, and I'm calling on you to publicly apologize for the lies you're saying. So I guess it's about what you said here. And the other thing. Yes, I was on that train back then because he asked me to - but it wasn't the support of the ČSSD, I never supported it - one person I respected and who, when he was the Minister for Regional Development and he was here in the House, as the Association of Czech Travel Agencies, was very relevant to us, unlike other arrogant politicians who were here at the time, and they were both from ČSSD and ODS and others, it was Radko Martínek... And this person is very factual - and you can see that I am not a politician here, that I would be ashamed of people who were factual, even though we had different political views, as the Minister has always found time, he has always discussed legislative proposals with us, he has been decent to us. And you see, I'm not ashamed of it. I must say that when I wasn't in politics, there were some other people that I knew were decent people. He was a singer named Honza Kalousek when he ran for Prague City Hall. I've known him for years. He ran as a non-scoring ODS candidate for the Prague City Hall. Yes, I personally supported him. I wasn't in politics, I wasn't a proper member of the political party, because he's just a decent person, and I think that's still the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u33	Thank you. President Chvojka with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I'm not filing any criminal charges against Vice-President Okamura. I am based on publicly available sources, from which you also quoted because you said - and there they wrote, and there they wrote something in 2006 and 2010 somewhere. That means you sue those publicly available sources if you have a problem with that. For example, Diary or Forum24, an independent internet diary that he wrote in 2017: Tomio Okamura spent money on his account, the contract proves it. It's about your involvement in your first party that you've brought to ruin, that is. Dawn. Did you file any criminal charges, or did you file a slander suit, an insult to honor? I didn't. That means, is what it says true? I'm just saying, and I'm saying this for the last time today, please stop constantly attacking the ČSSD, because any law, any performance, any topic that is being discussed here, the law of the universe, the law of squirrels, the law of anything, so you always turn to the ČSSD! It seems unfair to me. And it also seems unfair to me personally. Because I admit that they were individuals in the ČSSD - and you yourself said that the individuals in the ČSSD were also decent, and they were also rude, which you obviously did not agree with. And I didn't agree with them. And for those, the ČSSD may have apologized in the past. But don't put everyone in one bag. I'm not sitting here with those you mentioned, and I'm not responsible for what anyone did 12 years ago, please. It is unfair to the ČSSD, which is here today in this House, unfair to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u35	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura with a point of order. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u36	So what former Minister Jan Chvojka said here for the ČSSD is merely evidence of the utmost desperation and spasm of the ČSSD. Because so called. The alleged tunneling of the Dawn movement has already been investigated by the police, and even the prosecutor has appealed to investigate me again. And it was swept off the table that Okamura didn't enrich himself with a crown. And you know that, and you're recycled here again by a dirty rumor from 2014! Five years ago! And it was disproved a long time ago. So I'm glad and thank you for the smash tape, because it's live on Czech TV, so that I can rebut the dirty slander of political competition again and again. And again, unfortunately, it doesn't testify to your good picture. Because you're arguing something that never happened, it's been investigated in depth. And I repeat again - and I do not want to make unnecessary attacks on anyone here - but I repeat once again that unlike the ČSSD in the SPD movement, we do not have a single accused person among our politicians and MPs, not a single prosecuted person, we do not even have one convicted person. Look at our congress club. But with you, it was ministers and MPs. And whoever had some problems with us isn't in the SPD that long ago, just like I hope there's no need for it in the ČSSD or other parties, so we've worked it out. Because there are 12,000 of us in the SPD, so, of course, there may be someone who has some problems in some way, and we're dealing with that right now, a person like that can't be a member of the SPD. And I think we're all parties here that have a lot of members, so everyone's dealing with these problems, and I wouldn't blame anyone, because I know how difficult it is, because we all have a lot of people on the sides. But for me, I don't want to go back to the subject. If anyone from the ČSSD wants to go back to this discussion, I don't know if it's still interesting, but I suggest we move on. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u37	Thank you. I would like to point out - I understand that you are responding to your speeches - that we are discussing the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2020. We have factual remarks here, Mr Válek, Mr Chvojka, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u38	Thank you. I hope I don't get it wrong, I dare to respond to the performance of my previous speaker and thank you for the repeated, I feel this way, the praise of Czech television and the mention of Czech television. I hope that the report on Czech television will then be very easy to pass, when actually my previous speaker, Vice-President Okamura, mentioned how it was transmitted. And I think it's a good thing that he realizes how strong Czech television plays a role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u39	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u40	I'm just a matter of fact. I believe that the SPD, although having different reservations about the budget for 2020, will support the budget in the finals because President Miloš Zeman was here, which I think is, I would say, the SPD Guru, and I would almost say rightfully. He's a man they admire. And Mr Miloš Zeman, president of this country, said that the budget is very good, even though he obviously sees some small things on it, so that he supports him, that he thinks it is for the benefit of the Czech Republic. I therefore believe that you will listen to the President's opinion and that the SPD will support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u41	Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and her two minutes to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u42	Thank you. Mr President, I think I will not need two minutes, but three brief sentences. Firstly, I would really like us to return to the state budget so as to approve it at first reading. Secondly, even social democracies immediately said goodbye to all those who had a problem, because for us there is unacceptable corruption, any dishonesty. It's just not social democratic. And thirdly, in my day as Vice-President of Social Democracy, I have been acting as a person for the personal failures of those people who have not acted as social democrats who have not behaved as people in the public administration, in the administration of this country, who I have apologized for, and repeatedly. And I apologize for them now, and I would like us to go back to the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u43	Thank you, Madame Kalousek, for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and now with priority rights, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize for interrupting the interesting debate that has just taken place here with a rather boring interpretation of the state budget opinion. But I think that's what we're talking about. Before I give the opinion of the club, including the motion for a resolution on the draft law on the state budget, allow me one comment on the President of the Republic's speech on the same material. I think that the only thing really worth mentioning from the President's speech is the fact that it recommends increasing the tax burden on legal and natural persons by 318 billion. crowns a year. I believe that the implementation of such a proposal would seriously damage the Czech economy, that it would also damage the vast majority of citizens and families in the Czech Republic, and I firmly hope that this recommendation will not be heard by this government either. Now, let me give you an opinion on the draft state budget. In the discussions in the media space and in the committees, the most frequent and sharpest reservation to this proposal was that the budget was still deficitd after many years of growth and that the same deficit was planned for this year, i.e. 40 billion. Crowns. I may surprise you, but the deficit would under certain circumstances - gentlemen, don't be angry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u45	Yes, I'll ask for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u46	Thank you. I may surprise you, but under certain circumstances I would be willing to tolerate the budget, provided that priorities are directed towards the future, if any. to strengthen defence against the risks facing the Czech economy, this budget was sufficiently contained. Unfortunately, they're not there. Then it is not only the deficit that is worth criticizing, but what is not in the budget, but what is not there, or what is very little there. So I'm accusing him of three fundamental things. Firstly, as in this year, as in last year, there will not be a single crown of cargo in the budget for the necessary systemic changes to ensure the sustainability of the pension and health system. We all know, including the government, that these systems, the way they're set up, can do without a big problem... [[A silence. Mrs Mračková Vildumetz and Mrs Melk are canceling the speaker's call.]] Thank you. We all know that the way these systems are set up, they can work without a big problem by 2030. Then, with the 1970s and younger retirement, both systems begin to fall into unsolvable problems. The problem is growing and culminating around 2040. The government knows that. In its sustainability studies it presents to Brussels, it states this. After all, we all know that. 2030 is in a moment because we are discussing the budget for 2020. Yet nothing is done at all. Out of our reform actions, which were approved in 2011 and 2012, the government abolished everything except one single point, namely the VAT rate reduced from which the increase was to finance the cost of pension reform. Pension reform has been abolished by the government, but it retains higher VAT, finances something completely different, not the sustainability of the pension system, and the money is not enough. Yes, we have information that the Commission on Fair Pensions, or whatever its name is, has come to the conclusion that it recommends not having one pillar of compulsory insurance, but two pillars, because only one cannot have the two fundamental principles of the pension system of solidarity and merit. That's nice. We've known that for 20 years. This included our proposal, the first and second pillars, now I suspect it will be called zero and the first, because the second pillar must not be. Well, we know that for 20 years, we know that in one pillar the problem of merit and solidarity cannot happen, otherwise it will be directed towards an egalitarian levy. But it doesn't give the slightest answer to the long-term sustainability of the system. We didn't know that, and we won't, because I believe that the government doesn't have the expertise or the courage to do it, because the answers aren't exactly popular. There is no pension reform that will set up a long-term sustainable system that could tell citizens: you will pay less, you will take more and you will not retire later. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way, and the government doesn't want to give information to populist citizens. So reservation number 1: After six years of growth, it would not be such a disgrace to the deficit as it is a huge shame that, after six years of growth, not a single koruna out of the hundreds of billions that have increased the revenues of the state budget has been devoted to the long-term sustainability of every citizen in this country, unless it is over 80 years old today - its pension and health care sustainable up to its last days. The second relatively fundamental reservation to this draft budget is its low investment activity. The government often says how we're going to make record investments next year. How we're going to spend money on science and research record. Well, of course, after many years of growth, a slight increase in investment funds and a slight increase in science and research resources are perfectly logical. But let us ask ourselves: Is this really within the priority that those investments or the money for science and research should have? And how do the government often talk about them as being their major priority? Well, if we want to see what the priority is, we need to see what the relation of these expenditures has been to gross domestic product in recent years, what it is today and what it will be next year. I'm going to take 2012 as the starting point here because it was the last year when the government ruled all year so-called. Right-wing, where you know the fairy tale of how right-wing governments invested terribly little in times of crisis, thereby stressing the economy and causing the crisis. So in 2012, when we invested so little, we underlined the economy and caused the crisis, so we invested 2.8 % against gross domestic product. In absolute terms, it was 113.6 billion. and it was 2.8 percent. This year, in the year we are experiencing, the government is investing not 2.8 as we are in times of crisis, or more when we are at a time of growth, but investing 2.2 percent. - I'll let the Minister of Culture finish. [[Minister Zaoralek is on the phone.]] - Two full two percent. The budget is 122,3 billion. Crowns. And next year, he's telling us how to make a record investment of 146,7 billion. CZK, but it's only 2.5 percent, please. This means, once again, at a time of crisis, the government invested 2,8% against GDP in 2012, after six years of growth, the government, which claims that investment is its priority, invests 2,5 percent. [[12.10 hours]] The exact same trend can be seen in spending on science and research relative to GDP. In 2012, we were worried that science and research were the only chapter where we did not allow ourselves to cut, because we were in the fundamental importance of this chapter for the future, in 2012, we were worried that we were achieving poverty of one percent of GDP, to say exactly 0.96% of GDP, and we know well that recommendations for all our economies are double to triple numbers, but they were simply no more. This year, after six years of growth, the government is giving 0,75 per cent of science and research relative to GDP and next year, yes, it is increasing, but increasing to 0.81 per cent of GDP. That means still much less than in times of crisis. So what are the priorities when the government says they're investments, but they're obviously not the investments? We must look at the increase in other numbers and other expenditures. You know, in 2013, when the government fell, we had 413.6 thousand. civil servants. Officials, firefighters, teachers, of course. I'm talking about state employees. 413.6 thousand. civil servants. And I was among the few ministers who were unhappy that we wouldn't be able to meet the plan that Nečasův' government had that we would get below 400 thousand. and that the number of civil servants will begin with a threesome, because I believe that 400 thousand. civil servants are the maximum ceiling for the state of our size and scope of public services provided and that this number should start with a threesome. Since then, out of 413,6 thousand. The number has grown to this year's 469 thousand. And next year, the government is planning 474.5,000. civil servants. An increase of 60 thousand. He's gonna fuck it up! And every time it comes down to criticism of this trend, the government says, but they're not officials, they're teachers, they're firemen, they're policemen, they're soldiers. Yes, I agree. They're not just officials. They're also civil servants, but they're just all civil servants paying from the state budget. However, if, in the 400 thousand-dollar army, still 400-thousand, now already half a million, if I need to strengthen soldiers, police officers, teachers, which may be a legitimate priority, I have to take it somewhere else. I can't just deal with it extensively. If we deal with this extremely, and if we stay in this trend, we'll all be civil servants in no time. And who's gonna make money off these civil servants? This is simply an extremely irresponsible trend that both government parties have caused over the last six years, this increase in civil servants and related salaries. Because, once again, to those priorities - if we spent 132,5 billion on civil servants' salaries in 2012, the government budgeted 225 billion in 2020. the salaries of civil servants. About 94 billion. More! And here you see the priorities. If the government is now 466 billion. More than the government had in 2012, about 466 billion. gives to science and research about crappy 8 billion. more, for an investment of 33 billion. more, but for civil servants' salaries by 93 billion. And this is far from merely due to a relatively legitimate increase in civil servants. It's mainly due to the massive expansion of the army, the swelling of the state. These are wage costs - I can't imagine an entrepreneur, when the Prime Minister often talks about how effectively he runs this state as a company, I can't imagine an entrepreneur who would in such an irresponsible way swell up his company's wage costs because he would well know that it would go bankrupt. But a political entrepreneur who deals with taxpayers' money will do that. And if we are on those priorities, on those salaries, let's say again, the government has promised teachers, and yes, these are the civil servants who should earn the increase in those salaries, the government has promised teachers 15 percent of the increase next year. There's ten budgeted, and there's no more money. It would take 5 billion to add 15 percent to the teacher. Crowns. This is a much smaller amount than the government's next year's budget, for example, for fare discounts. All it would take is that nonsense, which is called a fare reduction, and it's really a subsidy for Mr. Jančura and his colleagues, and it's enough to cancel that nonsense, and teachers could have their 15 percent for this money. Ask those students if they want to go to the wrong schools with a discount or without a discount on good schools. I'm sure everyone will answer that they want to go to good schools without a discount. But this government just has other priorities. The third fundamental reservation to this budget, more fundamental than the deficit itself, is what I have already commented on in the 2018 state closing account, as stated by the Supreme Audit Office, as well as what has been decided by the Chamber of Deputies' Supervisory Committee in its resolution that government budgetary policy is constantly weakening the state budget's resilience to the future cooling of the economy. It's just true, you can't cheat the numbers. This is simply due to the fact that the gains from the good performance of the economy are above 100 billion each year, so the increase in mandatorial and quasi-mandatorial expenditures - the wages of civil servants are those quasi-mandatorial expenses - so the increase in mandatorial and quasi-mandatorial expenditures is faster than the increase in their income. If there's a chill or if God forbid there's a recession, you don't have that income, but you have to keep paying the expenses because they're legal or contractual. And then the state budget gets into a lot of trouble. And this is the trend that we have here every year. Madam Secretary says you must look at public finances as a whole. But the fact that many municipalities have a large amount of money planted on their accounts will not increase the state budget's resilience, because he bears the burden of the welfare state, pensions, social system, he carries the burden of financing health insurance for 60 percent of the population. And that's mandatory expenses you can't do anything about. And that's where the resistance just goes down. According to the Supreme Audit Office, and I agree with him, the resistance is lower than it was before the Lehman crisis in 2008. [[12.20 hours]] The government behaves as if - I live on the river in Lužnice, I had the Lužnice in my house three times, so in the last ten years there have been relatively expensive flood measures built there so that when the flood comes for the fourth time, so that it does not do so much damage. The government is acting exactly the same in its budget policy as if we were going to Lužnice now and dismantle all the flood measures and sell them and say, "Let no flood ever come again." We're not afraid of it. So that's how the government behaves in budgetary policy, because every year, it reduces the resistance to the mess that can come. In a media discussion, the Minister said to me: "You acted procyclically back then in the crisis, you were saving up, even if you weren't supposed to be saving. For me, procyclical policy is fundamentally unacceptable. He's the Minister of Finance's statement. We didn't enjoy being procyclical, but we hardly had anything left when we inherited the structural deficit to 5% and the crisis came. At that point, it was hard to do anything but save, even though we didn't like it. But if the pro-cyclical policy, Madam Secretary, is unacceptable to you, then why are you being pro-cyclical now? Because you now - yes, we didn't like to spare at a time of recession, we had a restrictive financial policy, and we behaved procyclically. But at the time of growth, you're also being pro-cyclical because you're consciously worsening the state budget structure. In your financial strategies, too, and in your medium term, you are admitting negative fiscal efforts, negative fiscal efforts, which means that the government is consciously aggravating the structure of the budget. Consciously aggravates the resilience to the future, even though the National Budget Board recommends at least neutral. So if the fundamental question I am asking you is that if procyclical financial policy, Madam Secretary, is unacceptable to you because that is your statement, then I have a simple question: why are you presenting a procyclical draft budget? It doesn't exist for that, in my opinion, there's no reasonable answer to that but that we just have to buy the votes of those voters. That's the point. I will repeat all three reservations that I have made on behalf of TOP 09 against the draft state budget: reservation of the absence of any cost of pension and health insurance in terms of sustainability, low investment activity of the state and still weakening resistance to the cooling of the economy. All these three reservations have one common denominator - that's the future. The future is of minimal interest to the government. She's only willing to talk about it. What she cares about and what her real priorities are is the daily bribery of voters by a huge redistribution of resources. This is not a vision of modern society. This is not a vision of a modernised country. In those six years, both nice government parties, we missed the train, or we're missing it, to give at least an inexhaustible view, in all the conceivable areas of modernization of the state that the government has an influence on. That government has no effect on GDP or minimal. The external conditions for our economy are ten times more important than the economic policy of the state. If there was a crisis tomorrow, God forbid, I'd be the last one to blame this government. But I'm gonna blame her for reducing the resistance to the crisis. And I'm gonna blame her for reducing the resistance to the crisis. And I'm gonna blame her for the fact that over the past six years, what really affects - infrastructure modernization, science, research, state administration efficiency, digitization, we've been losing trains everywhere compared to other countries, and we're losing the country's future competitiveness. These are the fundamental reservations of the TOP 09 club to the draft state budget. In this form, the draft budget is totally unacceptable to us. On the other hand, I belong to those, along with my colleagues, who are aware that even a bad budget is a slightly better option for that country than no long-term budget make-up. And we want to offer a constructive proposal. Everything I have just criticized is incorrigible within the time limit for which the budget can be revised, that is, twenty-three days, so that we can have a budget for the New Year. Very little can be fixed. Everything else would require a complex legislative process and it is not a one-year run. It will be after you, Madam Secretary, for years to be repaired. - Sorry, that was too personal. It will be after you, the government of Andrej Babiš, to repair for years. It's not a one-year run. But there's something that can be fixed in a month. You can cut off some senseless expenses. The state's investment activity can be strengthened. Therefore, I would like to propose a resolution to the rapporteur in writing: the Chamber of Deputies, on a government proposal from the state budget, returns the government with the following recommendation: to reduce expenditure by 20 billion. CZK, balance reduced by 20 billion. CZK, increase investment expenditure against total expenditure to at least 10 per cent. - For your reminding me, it was ten percent in those times of crisis. - Twenty-day deadline. If the government were willing to accept this recommendation and redeploy the budget in those 20 days, it would still be a bad budget. All three reservations will still be valid there, but they'll pay a little less. And that's all you can fix. So, in that case, we are actually ready to negotiate on budget support. If he insists on the proposal we are discussing today, his support is unimaginable to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u47	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to add a little clarity to the confusion that Mr Kalousek has caused here. So to make it clear, and what I think is absolutely irreversible in Mr Kalousek's chaotic speech, I would say through now to Mr Kalousek: In 2011, in the budget you approved, you adopted the procyclical measures that we sent the Czech economy into recession. It's a textbook thing to learn today. You've sent the economy into recession with your austeres, the measures that forced people to tighten their belts. This government - you understand - has a deficit of almost 1 percent. You call this a procyclical measure? Excuse me? [[Minister Schiller fixes: 0,7]] Zero, seven. Or even less - 0.7! There's a small deficit, my friends, only Luxembourg, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe one more country. And you dare say procyclical measures? You, the master of procyclical measures that caused this country's misfortune in 2011? What's the confusion in the House debate? [[Very strongly.]] I can't believe you guys are allowed to perform! Don't you understand that you didn't have enough to make people pay? That people barely made money? And you did it completely senseless and useless! People should be thanking you for that for a long time, and you shouldn't even be on the budget anymore! It was tragic! And I was talking here in this House about your responsibility. You dare to talk about responsibility today? You're... Don't you feel responsible for what you did back then? Sounds like impertinence to me! Like, how can you even afford it? Like after this failure. It's like when Churchill wiped out thousands of British soldiers back in the Battle of Gallipolis. Like you're wondering if you're gonna get out again. You're... this is your Gallipoli in 2011. You should keep your mouth shut about the budget! And I repeat, this is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u49	A point of fact - Mr Kalousek. Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Jurečka, will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u50	I thank the Minister of Culture for his emotional performance. He's probably already going to the National Theatre or something. We can take a seminar for 2011, we can take a seminar on a situation where we really had nothing else to do to convince the markets that they could lend to us. But please, you can address the criticism if you want to talk about what was. I'm talking about what's gonna happen. And you don't really care what happens, because that sustainability is basically minimal. What fascinates me about you, colleagues from government parties, is that you can use one mouth to blame the government of that time for the huge deficits in times of crisis and at the same time the insolence that we took the liberty of saving. Wouldn't you like to stop arguing at least by blaming just one thing? Because if we didn't save as much as you blamed us, the deficits would be bigger. Or maybe we should have saved even more, and then we didn't make that kind of debt. But he can only blame both of them for a completely incompetent person like you, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u51	Next is Mr Marian Jurečka, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek and Mr Pavel žáček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u52	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here on the basis of a factual comment on the speech of Minister Zaorálek. I think that no one can accuse me of defending Mr Kalousek, a fellow Member who, in the past, referred to me as a pig pimp, a tractorist, and so on. I don't think we have the right to tell anyone else in this House that they don't have the right to speak to any material that the House is discussing here. The mandate we have here gives us the freedom and the opportunity to express ourselves freely here. And even though I've been in politics for a relatively short time, I realize that in the six years I've been here, I've also done things that haven't been right. But the key thing is, if we've made mistakes, we can learn from them and not repeat them. The art of admitting that mistake makes it the size of politics and man. This is particularly true in politics, because in today's PR marketing time, to be able to be a politician to say, "I was wrong, I was wrong, I'm sorry," well, that's not what I'm wearing today. But I think what Mr Kalousek here said in his rather long speech, I listened to him, has a certain ratio from the perspective of the future. Mistakes have been made and let us take a look - and now I also address my colleague, Mr Zaorálek, through Mr President, although I do not have to - so he and his political party have certainly made mistakes in the past that they would not like to repeat. And that's what politics is supposed to be about, so that we can agree on it here as far as possible and look for solutions so that it doesn't happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u53	Thank you. Minister of the Zaorálek. Mr. Žáček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u54	I would just like to say briefly that I would like to assure Mr Kalousek that I feel responsible for what I approve of, and for what I stand here today and what I propose. I would also like to tell him that he is wrong even when he was talking about the unsustainable pension system. I just have to say, I think this is the legend he was telling here. He was talking about 2030. I'd like to tell you that the pension system is something that's dynamic. You know, in both development and demography, it is assumed that there will be a drop at some point, but then there will be a rise again. That means, that's the point of overcoming a certain period of time. I saw an analysis that showed that this could mean that the cost of the state budget or GDP would rise from, say, 9 per cent to 12 per cent, that is, an increase of 3 per cent of GDP costs, the size of GDP paid for the pension system, which is, of course, the growth that many countries in the world have today. That means, it's not true that the system is unsustainable. Everything depends on the development of the economy and we cannot predict at this time what will be in the world in 2030. This means that the pension system will simply be sustainable by being able to cover costs in a normal functioning economy. The system's in deficit for a while, it's in surplus for a while. He's in surplus right now. That's how it goes. When there's a deficit, it's covered by the state budget. But there's always a way to hold it. That means it's not true that it's unsustainable. It's a myth. It's just that the costs are covered by the budget. When the economy grows, it grows. It's just my responsibility. And I ask Mr. Kalousek where his responsibility was when he approved budgets for those people who then lived without money and who lived from hand to mouth. Well, that's his lack of responsibility. And I say that if I vote for this budget, I know what I am doing, and it is absolutely responsible. I wish he didn't have that responsibility so often.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Pavel Žáček, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'm a history fan, I'm very interested in her, and that's why I know every angle is limping. If the Minister wanted to tell us what was going on with Winston Churchill after Gallipolis, that is, he became Prime Minister of Great Britain and defended the Great Britain and the free world against Nazism, and then he was a co-winner of World War II - then you warn us that Kalousek will become Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in the future, or how should I understand that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u57	Chairman Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u58	Minister of the Czech Government of the Zaorálek, you said here that I was unnecessarily terrified that none of this was true about the sustainability of the system. Then please, Minister of the Czech Government, take the documents of the Czech Government. I didn't make it up. Take the sustainability study of the Czech Government, take the convergence programme, a document from the Czech Government sent by the government to the European Commission at the end of April. Turn to page 26 and there you will see a graph that has been falling into unsolvable problems since 2030. These are documents of your government. Where do you get the audacity to tell the Chamber of Deputies and the public that it's not true when it's in your government's documents? That's your irresponsibleness. That's your irresponsibleness to citizens in 2030. The crisis may have been put to rest by the citizens of the Czech Republic in a difficult way, but they survived. No one was without retirement and no one was without responsible health care. If nothing happens to these systems, this budgetary policy will throw them into a situation where health care is not really available and when the retirement of today's generation of 40s will be able to dream of. And you're talking about the irresponsibleness that we've been being gentle, and about your total irresponsibleness, that even if your government knows how these systems are going to evolve, you're lying in public and lying to people that they don't have to worry, even though your government has a completely different documentation. So this is your responsibility. I assure you that in those 20 years, you may still be in the world, you will have saved up, but the poorest will be miserable because of your politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u59	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Zaorálek. Mr. Stanjura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u60	Mild words should be used. So I'm not gonna say lie. It's just that it's inaccurate what you said, my colleague, because the document you quote and write about doesn't say that the system is in an unsolvable situation. The whole document only talks about the fact that if it develops, certain measures will have to be taken. Just the one I was talking about. For example, if this were to happen in this deficit, it would address the state budget with roughly GDP growth from 9 per cent to 12 per cent. That means there's talk of paying for it for some time before the situation improves. There is even talk that demographic development will then be more favourable. This means that it merely states that if this situation occurs in this way, the government will have to take action and will have to find a way to uncover it for some time. That's all. What you said was unsolvable is nonsense. That's why I say it's sustainable. Of course, a normal responsible government and a functioning economy will solve this. So the inaccuracies you're committing are fatal. And don't use such strong words. Let's not yell at each other here that we're lying. I'm trying to describe it exactly. Respect me, too, that I read the documents and that I'm trying to interpret them exactly here. Let's not hit each other on the head. Let us speak calmly and speak accurately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. President Stanjura, President Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u62	First, I want to appreciate that with the ministerial office we discovered and returned the good old Lubomír Zaorálek, who yells at us from the top of his lungs - I don't mind - and then he says, "Let's talk calmly, let's not shout at each other." But I really don't mind, I prefer his position and politically passionate debate to such a surrendered silence. I'm sure you do. [[12.40 hours]] I don't think I'm gonna be talking to the pension system tonight, that's a long story. But I would ask, for example, the Minister of Culture, if he took the B book, that's government material, and he found page 1 - I don't want you to read all sides, just page 1 - and read the basic macroeconomic indicators, and compare 2011 and 2020. So in 2011, when the end of the world was in the Czech Republic, according to Lubomír Zaorálek, GDP grew by plus 1.8 percent, and next year it's supposed to be plus 2.2. I recognize the difference of 0.4 percent. But it's not a dramatic difference. They're Treasury numbers. And by the way, you know how they affect costs in the economy, for example. oil prices, so in 2011, it cost oil, one barrel, 111 U.S. dollars, this year it's 64 and next year it's 60. So if we want to be precise - and the budget is pretty good discipline that there are a lot of numbers and we can talk about numbers, not just impressions. And the Minister of Culture, it actually has something to do with the function, he doesn't use numbers, he uses impressions, but that makes him more passionate and maybe more convincing for someone. This morning you applauded the President of the Republic when he said that if we cancel tax exemptions, we'd save 318 billion. You know that's bullshit, right? But you applauded. Excellent, 318 billion. and 3% of GDP for pensions is around 180 billion. Every year! [[Time, Mr. Chairman!]] [[Thank you.]] So not minus 40, but minus 220 billion. deficit, just like that. The government will do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u63	Thank you. I'll ask you to observe the time to make a factual remark, which is set at two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u64	Thank you. I would like to respond once more to the Minister of Culture. Of course, I'd love to keep my voice down and not use strong words. I was just trying to adapt, Minister. However, I will say about the most polite, rude word that I am able to say to you: you simply do not understand. It's not your fault, because you don't understand. You told us here: if the pension system goes into deficit, it's covered by the state budget. You know, he's part of the state budget, Minister of Culture, just like your chapter. And it says in those government documents that if no solution is accepted, then the deficit will be in hundreds of billions - 200 billion, 300 billion. As much as you want to cover it from the rest of the state budget, if no solutions are accepted, I'd really like to know. This is precisely the fact that no solutions are accepted, that any solutions have been cancelled and no other solutions have been accepted and you do not want to accept them. And that's your irresponsibleness to the future. Now I understand that you absolutely don't understand, that you don't know anything about it. Yes, my faith says that ignorance does not do sin, but yet it does not warrant you to deceive the public and say that there is no risk and that you are the most responsible. The risk is huge, and you're irresponsible about lying to the public about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u65	Well, thank you. Mr. Válek, so far the last one to comment, and then again is Lubomír Zaorálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u66	Thank you, Mr President. For me, this debate is immensely refreshing and positive, and I am summing it up very simply for myself. I studied the materials because I tried to prepare, and I admit, I didn't understand, even though the conclusions seemed clear. Here's how I see it. Thus, through the President, Mr Kalousek evaluates the conclusions of the materials prepared by the government in the same way as I evaluate them, as many others evaluate them because they are based on what is in those materials. But the minister of this government, who certainly knows how the government works, doesn't trust the materials that the government issues himself, probably knows why they don't trust them, because he is in that government, and it's clearly proof that he doesn't actually believe anything that government does, even if it is its minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u67	So Minister Zaorálek, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u68	I'd just like to maybe one last thing to Mr. Kalousek, who's acting out like the one who understands. I mean, despite what he's responsible for, he says he understands. I would tell him that his understanding led to this policy, for example, to create a second pillar of the pension system, and I would just like to point out that if the second pillar were to be constructed here as he wanted, the second pillar would have sucked money out of the pension insurance, and then there wouldn't really be money, and there wouldn't really be anything to pay the money out of. That means this is a concrete example of how you understand the economy. You can repeat this here forever, and I'm telling you that your life is practically showing where it actually leads. Your policy was a policy of defending certain specific interests. And don't say you're an expert on the economy. You've proven with your footsteps that you've caused a lot of people here to be in a very bad place. You're responsible for this. So the responsibility, think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u69	Thank you. President Kalousek and his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u70	That's not overkill about where she is or where she's not true anymore. The truth is in government documents, and I quote them here. It's about the responsibility. We are both political at an age where we both have quite a significant part of our responsibility for what has been going on here for the last twenty years, and I am, of course, ready to confess at any time. But when we talk about the draft state budget, we are talking about the responsibility of the political representation for what will be here, not for what has been here. And I dare say and dare to prove it with government figures - from the financial strategy, from the convergence programme, from the fact that you yourself admit negative fiscal efforts, from the fact that you yourself admit procyclical policies at a time of growth - I dare say that this is an irresponsible policy for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u71	Thank you. At this point, we are returning to the general debate. With priority rights, Mr. Vít Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start with one more sentence. He won't give it to me. We are discussing the state budget of the Czech Republic for next year, the most important material that perhaps the Chamber of Deputies is discussing throughout its year. When I look behind me, the number of Czech government ministers present may not be entirely responsible, but above all it is not one fact, and that we do not have the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Mr.Andrej Babiš. I understand that he is bound by his foreign responsibilities, on the other hand, I believe that the Prime Minister's programme is really to be adapted to the fact that on the day the state budget is being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, he is to be here, he is to be with the Minister of Finance, and he is to be the one to present us with the strategy for the development of the Czech Republic for the next few years. I will try to give you a general number of reasons - then, in the debate itself, with a more specific analysis, Mrs Kovářová will come forward - which leads us to believe that we really cannot support the budget presented as STAN. If we look at its structure, 91 per cent of this budget, 91 per cent are current and dictatorial expenditures. Investment at a time of objective economic boom, at a time when the government promised us an investment plan of the Czech Republic, bypassed the regions, collected incentives from the mayors, the captains, Prime Minister Babiš originally said that the investment plan would be here last Christmas, showed us its cover, but its contents did not. Now they're telling us that the next Christmas is probably the right date. But please, let's remember that we're halfway through the term. And on this whole, the government is showing us its strategically flawed approach to the budget. It is a kind of recycling of old budgets, where only individual items are valued for that year, but it is not a budget that should have some ambition that should determine the need at the beginning, especially the investment needs of the Czech Republic. A long-term strategy for the development of the Czech Republic, which would be quantified by some amount of money. And that would then be based on the creation of all the other items contained in the state budget. [[12.50 hours]] We are not going this way because there is no investment strategy of the Czech Republic. The budget is drawn up in a hockey manner. It will happen here, here it will happen, as it will be agreed with those on whom the budget is based 30 years after the Velvet Revolution, with the communists, who will first declare to them that it is the ceiling deficit of the 30 billion. CZK, then after a visit to the Minister and promised gifts in the state budget will proceed to a deficit of 40 billion. Crowns. A deficit whose existence as such I would perhaps not criticize if we were sure that the future of those next generations, the future of our children, is not being eaten. If I were sure that strategic matters for the Czech Republic would be invested thanks to the deficit budget. For example, basic research, whose percentage of GDP is shamefully low in the Czech Republic. Money for education and education, where we still don't get to some five percent of the budget. Into the real eGovernment, and not games on eGovernment. The government of Andrej Babiš promised from the beginning that it would simplify the government, simplify the functioning of our state, come up with real digitalization. What are the facts? The facts are that we are returning billions to high-speed internet or are quickly seeking other uses for them. The facts are that the state has not simplified at all, and on the contrary, there are increasing civil servants, which we pay from our taxes. The state doesn't work simply, the state doesn't help people, the state is getting more complicated and more complex, it's necessary and it's certainly not the state that Andrej Babiš promised. Andrej Babiš also presented us on billboards with those shots that symbolized traditional politics and claimed to be babbling about them. Well, how else do you understand the Prime Minister's statement of April 2014 - I quote: "I am convinced that we will have a balanced budget in 2017 given what we have prepared." Those are the words from 2014. I guess the Prime Minister is also the traditional politician, because obviously here - and I'm sticking to his expressive formulas - he was just babbling. We do not have a balanced budget, and not only did we not have it in 2017, but we do not have it for 2020. So what happened? Didn't he have it ready, as he said in April 2014? Something went wrong, something changed objectively? Did the economy get into some serious crisis? It's not like that at all. On the contrary, in those years of government YES, the economy was undergoing an unprecedented boom, and we did not use that to try to reduce public budget deficits in any way. If we're talking about the simplicity of the state. So the states that went that way went into the real digitization of the government, so they were able to save, and this is verifiable and verifiable, up to 2 percent of GDP. In our terms it would be the sum of the circus 100 billion. crowns and maybe more. Isn't that the kind of money our budget is missing? Isn't this the simple state that promised the YES movement, and it never came with it to bring the missing funds, and we wouldn't have to eat through the future of those generations? Today, President Zeman here - and you applauded him - criticized the number of civil servants. But under your rule, it's growing. You cut empty tables, but really those officials who come to various types of state authorities, their number is quite objectively and conclusively increasing. And a total of 225 billion. the expenditure on civil servants' salaries is absolutely record-breaking for next year. And then what do you tell us? We don't have the money, so we'll take it from you with a tax package. What is a tax package? Allegedly, the fight against gambling. The Minister of Health mentioned it here. What fight against gambling? You tax people Sportka, you tax people betting in Fortuna and Tipsport, but you do not tax the operators of slot machines in the Czech Republic. It's a great victory for the gambling lobby, it's a joyous one. That's where you stay at 35 percent, and that's where the pathological addiction you're talking about comes from. You don't tax wine, you tax beer, you tax hard alcohol. That perhaps people will come to stop drinking hard alcohol and go to beer, wine, it will unlearn them. That is such stupid and false reasoning. Just admit to the people in the Czech Republic that you don't have enough money for that policy and you have to take it somewhere. And where do you get it from outside the taxpayers' pockets, often from the poorest in the Czech Republic? If the government actually invested in this country's future and used deficit management for that, that budget as such would be for some broader discussion. But it's not like that. The government is eating through the future, the government is not thinking about it, the government is just satisfying the current needs and not investing in the future of this country because it is not interested in the future of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u73	Thank you. With priority rights, President Marek is now signed in Výborný. Please note that at 1:00 p.m. it's time for a break and we'll continue at 2:30 p.m. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u74	I get it. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to say clearly for myself, for KDU-ČSL, this budget, this draft state budget, as prepared by this government, is built badly. It is a budget that is not friendly to families, among other things, and that is the priority that we should all really be interested in. The government here represents a draft budget that doesn't even match her deficit reduction plan. Let me just remind you, it sounded here repeatedly when you look at the trend of the state budget deficit since 2016, the government - and at that time KDU-ČSL - was always 10 billion. reduced the state budget deficit. So in this logic, I would consider it right for 2020 when we went 70, 60, 50, 40, so that we could go on and get to at least 30 billion. State Budget Deficit. I will not dispute here that the government is coming up with a deficit budget, but what is important is what this deficit, what this deficit is meant for. And that's what bothers us and what we criticize over the long term. The budget is not an investment budget, the budget is not the one that would invest, but unfortunately it only consumes. When we look at the growth of mandatorial spending, it's all consumption. But capital spending is long-term low. And here it needs to be recalled again, when we look at 2010, the period of the biggest crisis, so it was 11 percent, this year capital expenditure is 9 percent. Thus, this government cannot brag about it, it is not a good trend, and KDU-ČSL cannot support this state budget for this reason as it is in its internal structure. In this sense, the government does not mean for the future. I don't want to anticipate the extent to which we're waiting or not for some skinny summer. However, I will just point out to the full conclusion that the National Budget Board also draws attention to the long-term unsustainableness of public finances, particularly in the context of demographic developments and the rising costs of the pension system. Those are not my words, those are the words of the National Budget Council. And it is amazing that this government, which is called the government responsible, does not acknowledge this. [[13.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Czech Republic is eating its future through this state budget. The trends are just undisputable, we can't deny them. I am referring mainly to trends in demographic development. And in the future, if this government doesn't respond to it, or those other governments, we're putting together a huge, huge problem in the future. Indeed, long-term sustainability of public finances will not be possible with this approach. And when we look at these investments, I just want to poke one thing out, because, of course, the government is not responding enough to where these investments should go - science and research, innovation. We are not fulfilling our commitments to the allies, to the North Atlantic Alliance in the chapter of defense. But the key thing to focus on is the development of infrastructure, because, of course, the development of infrastructure and transport structures is logically linked to the development of the whole Czech Republic. And when we look at this chapter in the state budget, we see that for next year we will be happy to finance what is running, but unfortunately we will not start any major construction. [[President: Mr President, I will interrupt you.]] I know the time has passed, but these are the crucial points for which KDU-ČSL cannot support this state budget. Thank you for your attention and enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u75	Thank you. I'm calling a break. We'll continue at 2:30. Enjoy your meal. I remind you that the Organizing Committee will meet five minutes after the end of the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u76	Good afternoon. We will therefore continue the general debate interrupted before the midday break. At that moment, the President of the KDU-ČSL Marek spoke Výborný. However, I have information that he no longer wants to continue his performance, although he was interrupted, that he had already said everything he had to say. So we'll go next in order. Mrs Kateřina Valachová is on the verdict. But she's not present in the hall, so I'm canceling her application for de facto. I will therefore read the apology and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová with the speech, and then Mr Václav Votava will speak. I shall read one apology until the Member comes to the microphone - the Member is present. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes today from 15 a.m. to the end of negotiations from the Chamber of Deputies for work reasons. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me, too, to comment on the draft State budget for 2020. We already know the basic figures of this budget, the parameters and priorities, so we can get a picture of them. First, the basic numbers. The expected revenue is 1,578 bil. CZK, expenses 1.618 beat. Crowns. Maybe there's something wrong with that. And I must say, neither do I. Because we're going to run a 40-billion-dollar deficit. Mandator spending will increase by 7.3% to 885 billion compared to last year. Crowns. And investment, that's only 135 billion. Crowns. What does Prime Minister Babiš have to say about this? It's a good budget. I don't think so. I'll start in order. First, the government is counting on a 40-billion-dollar deficit again. Why? We don't know that. The Prime Minister is constantly telling us how well we are in the Czech Republic, how our country thrives and how we are the least indebted EU country. And Minister Schillerová is adding to this and is talking about how we have sound and balanced public finances. I do not understand why we have to have a deficit budget when the Czech Republic is so well? Can we really not afford to plan a balanced budget? Do we really need to continue to increase the debt of the Republic even in good economic times? The Ministry of Finance tells us that it is okay, on the contrary, all other state and independent institutions such as the National Budget Board, the Supreme Audit Office and others point out that the deficit in times of economic growth is risky and irresponsible. Today, global economic growth is pulling us up, so it looks like it's actually going well for the government, even though it doesn't manage according to the deficit. But the question remains what will bring us the economic downturn. What the government cannot deny is the subtlety of its actions. You could also talk about manipulation. What do I mean? For example, how the Minister of Finance managed to find and literally conjure another 18 billion out of the budget within a few weeks of negotiations with ministers. Crowns. However, the deficit did not increase or decrease. The Minister simply specified the estimate of the revenue of the state budget. It's just gonna be $20 billion next year. More. Coincidentally, they were exactly as much involved in the initially unsatisfactory demands of ministers. That's a nice coincidence, isn't it? There are other things government can do on a budget field. You may have noticed in the past that neither Minister Schillerová nor Mr Babiš from the time he was Minister of Finance has ever worked out the budget as planned. Yes, the budget cannot be planned exactly, you never know how it will be next year with revenue and expenditure. But it didn't cost this couple tens of billions of crowns. And by chance, they've always managed to reduce the deficit, or they've even managed to get to the surplus. How is that possible? All you have to do is play with the numbers so that the revenue of the budget is cut significantly and the expenditure is overvalued significantly. As a result, at the end of the year, the Minister or Secretary of Finance boasts how well the budget worked out. You can also guess where the government saves the most on the spending side. ano, unfortunately, it will not invest the full amount that it spends on investment. This means that it does not actually decide on the budget as a whole, but only about less than half of it, as I said about increasing the mandatorial expenditure. And there's not much you can do with mandatorial expenses, they're mandatory. It is good to note that during the period when the Ministry of Finance is in the administration of the ANO movement, mandatorial spending has increased by a few tens of billion crowns. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. And there's nothing wrong with adding workers to the public sector. Adding to seniors and adding to parents. But the government must do so together with measures to finance the increase. You can't just give away, but you can also think about where to give out. Now, apparently, it's not a problem, because the economy is working. People spend money, budget revenues are high. However, once the hammer of economic decline hits the Czech Republic, the revenue of the budget will decrease sharply. But mandatorial spending will remain at the same level - where will we get money for pensions, salaries, and parental contributions? The only option will be the hundreds of billion budget deficits. But the government does not care, and it will leave this problem itself to those who will rule next. And after us the flood, as they say. [[14.40 hours]] The planned 40-billion-dollar deficit would only be able to swallow if this money went on investment. It would mean that instead of 135 billion. The koruna would be reserved for them 175 billion. Crowns. Investing in the infrastructure and competitiveness of our economy and our citizens is exactly the recipe that would make our Republic a country that can better cope with economic recession. And reality? The investments aren't going well with the government of Andrej Babiš. Firstly, it invests little and, secondly, it is not often able to invest enough. Even though we have 13 billion in nominal value for investment next year, in those national subsidies, more than this year, given the state budget structure, the volume of investment in relation to GDP is less than it was in times of economic crisis. And that was more than eight years ago. At the same time, we all know that the purchasing power of money is moving elsewhere today than in the past. In short, it seems good that real investment that would promote economic growth and stability in our economy is a bad word for the current government. At first sight, the government's a kisser. Everything's fine, we're doing very well, and the government itself knows very well what its populist policy limits are. He can't not know. The evidence is the final steps of the Treasury that the budget is looking for where it can be. Taxes are rising, taxes are being taxed, insurance companies are being taxed, money is being drawn, billions are being drawn from the account of the National Property Fund, which the government dissolves into its budget, and all to mask the holes in the budget. And what can we for STAN do to make life better in this country? If the draft state budget goes through the first reading, and as it looks like it will pass, we will try to direct the amendments to our priorities, and they have not changed for several years. Investing in education, we mean increasing the salary of teachers, because quality teachers, it's a highway for prosperity in the future. We also want to increase grant titles for the construction of primary schools and, of course, kindergarten schools, because pre-school facilities are what can enable moms to employ and thus also bring billions into the state budget. Of course, other key investments are important for us, namely in roads or railways, of course digitization or rural development. We will patiently explain our amendments with the belief that, sooner or later, some coalition Members will wake up from a hypocritical government budget dream when they discover the responsibility for the future that they lack with their government colleagues. Now let me compare the main spending priorities of the state budget with what the government has in its government statement. Then I ask: The Government's programming statement mentions six main strategic guidelines. The first is that the government wants to implement pension reform. It wants to take concrete steps without lengthy and barren discussions and the essence will be to separate the pension account from the state budget and establish clear financial relations between that account and the state budget and, where appropriate, other sources of income for that account. The public will know where its social contributions are going and how they are used. So I am asking: we agree to raise pensions, I think, that the entire Chamber of Deputies voted for this, but it is unlikely that this priority will be achieved simply by increasing pensions. I would expect that the draft state budget will also indicate the direction the government will take in this area. Another priority for the government in the programming statement is that it wants the availability of high-speed internet everywhere. I don't see any information in the main spending priorities about this being the case. Of course, among other things, the government states in its programming statement that it will set up a strategic investment programme. This has already been discussed by my colleague Rakušan. So far, no strategic investment programme is available. The government says that its intention is to build motorways, city bypasses and so on, to build apartments for young families and seniors, and of course it also wants to start reconstructions of monuments in all regions, and to attract tourism even outside the main centers. Unfortunately, once again, I do not see any data in spending priorities that would be directed precisely at this government priority, we even have to say that there is less money to repair cultural monuments in national grant titles than this year, and we are very sorry about that. The government also has priority to increase the contribution to the administration's performance, and in this case I must commend the government and the Minister of Finance. That is where we see this priority in the main spending priorities, when the contribution to the administration's performance will be validated. We say - at least something. I think it will be very helpful to cities and municipalities. I guess I could go on like this. I will mention that the government wants to increase the degree of domestic food self-sufficiency, protect the soil as the basis of our natural wealth and so on. Unfortunately, I do not see this either in the basic main spending priorities of the state budget. So we can say that the government is waving hands over the state budget deficit. He's good at losing, he's posing as a success, and he's proving that he can't manage in good times. I think we have called the state budget proposals several times that they are drafts of the state budget, which can be described as proposals for oblivion of the future. I think that's very true. Although the government is saying in its programming statement that it wants us to be better, it also wants to pass on to our children a prosperous country and economy, it wants to think about the future and does not want to live just today, it wants to postpone the disputes that have weakened our society in recent years because it realizes that the future will not be easy and our descendants will not forgive us for not doing everything that we should and could have done. If the government wanted to comply with this paragraph, it would not propose a budget that is maintenance, but a visionary budget. And the paragraphs I was talking about, and the missing items are proof of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u78	That was Mrs Věra Kovářová. I now call for the speech of Mr Václav Votava. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to make a few comments on the draft State budget for 2020. I won't talk as long as some previous speakers. I will also focus on the revenue side of the state budget. I would like to state, at the outset of my brief speech, that this is a budget based on social democratic priorities and the fulfillment of the promises made by social democracy to its voters in the elections and which, of course, were also reflected in the government's programming statement. Trade unionists do not have a problem with the State Finance Plan for 2020, nor do employers have a problem, more or less. That means the tripartite is a match. According to the trade unions, he is socially responsible, he supports economic growth, and he is the stability of the economy for employers. [[14.50 hours]] As I said, the budget takes into account the priorities of social democracy, let this be a re-increasing of CZK 900 from 1 January 2020, and after this increase the average old-age pension will reach CZK 14,326. It is not yet the line we would like, but I think we are approaching it. The budget also reflects an increase in parental allowance of CZK 80,000, i.e. to CZK 300,000, an increase in the salaries of pedagogical and non-teaching workers in regional education, an increase in the salaries of all public administration employees by CZK 1,500 per employee. The increase also goes to the salaries of the security forces. I am glad that our priorities for the state budget have succeeded in pushing through to the members of the government for social democracy. There's an increase in investment funds, and it's 24 billion year-on-year. CZK 146,2 billion in total. CZK, from national sources it is 88 billion. Crowns. The question, of course, is the drawing of funds, and it depends on the preparation of the projects. A significant proportion of investment funds are made up of European funds, that is to be said, and it is a question of what will happen when the flow of money from the European Union is significantly weakened or when we become net payers. That, too, must certainly be thought of in the future. These are therefore measures reflected in the budget, which, of course, I am grateful. But that doesn't mean I don't put a question mark on the state budget. The question marks concern e.g. revenue parties to the state budget. Even when the state budget was being drawn up, as Social Democrats, we have warned the Ministry of Finance of an unnecessarily excessive macroeconomic forecast for the growth of the gross domestic product on which this budget is built. Of course, we can discuss this. The Ministry of Finance's argument about a very conservative approach to the forecast of gross domestic product development is to slow down the German economy, the uncertainty associated with Brexit or worsening relations and the trade war between the United States and China. Of course, even these influences cannot be ignored. However, if I look at other relevant public institutions, e.g. In its clarification, the Czech National Bank improved its GDP growth estimate for 2020 from 2.8 to 2.9 percent. It is known that the Czech National Bank usually has rather higher estimates, which is true. For example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, after converting current data, still holds its estimate at 2.5 percentage points, and the International Monetary Fund remains also optimistic and estimates the growth of the economy oscillating around 2.5 percent for the next two years. We can therefore, as I said, discuss whether the Ministry of Finance's estimate is relevant, which has reduced its prediction from the original 2.4 percentage points of gross domestic product growth to 2,2 percent for this budget for 2020, and therefore whether it is not underestimating the real situation. To what extent this is a statistical error and to what extent it is an intention, I don't want to speculate about it here. It is certainly gratifying that, after Greece and Portugal, we, as the Czech Republic, have overcome rapidly growing Spain in gross domestic product per capita in purchasing power parity. This is certainly very good news and it is shown by the latest OECD data. But there is one pitfall. The gross domestic product per capita indicator has also the volume of production that flows out of the country in the form of dividends, and the flow of dividends from the Czech Republic is definitely a problem for our economy. However, it is evident that we are catching up with Europe's economically advanced countries in the long run, although not as quickly as we would certainly all like. It is certainly commendable that the Financial Administration manages to collect taxes and increases tax collection. I would say that it is directly a duty to ensure appropriate tax collection on the basis of applicable tax laws and in accordance with the tax rules. But then it is difficult for me to understand for example. the abolition of 34 territorial offices of financial offices, especially in municipalities with extended scope, as it intends to implement it and will certainly implement the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration. Not to mention we're still saying that the state administration is supposed to be closer to the citizen, but the opposite is true. The implementation of this measure also shows this. Frequent criticism is subject to the fact that the budget is based on laws that the House has not yet definitively approved, or the government has not even submitted them to the House. And here I speak for example. Unfortunately, the digital tax that social democracy therefore supports, however, the Ministry of Finance is counting on a digital tax of 2.1 billion in the state budget for next year. CZK, but today it is already clear that the legislative process will simply not be completed by the end of 2019 and that this income will most likely not be fulfilled. The question is whether the structure of the tax package presented by the Ministry of Finance will change here in the House through amendments. I mean, if some amendments are passed, for example. at other gambling tax rates, if they mean less than budgeted revenue. This also applies, for example, if wins are not taxed as planned and as is in the tax package from the Ministry of Finance, or if the exemption from excise duty on natural gas from domestic boiler rooms will be refused. The same is true if an increase in the deposit fee in the real estate register is refused. I know, it's change, but penny makes plates, as they say. Just to remind you, the budget plans to approve a tax package with additional revenue of 20 billion. Crowns. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I still have a vivid memory of his last meeting when, for example, there was a live debate in the negotiations on the tax package. on the removal of life insurance from the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance undertakings. And I must admit that I myself am not convinced that the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies is correct, for a number of reasons, which I have also mentioned on the Committee on Budgets. I know that the Czech National Bank also does not support or has significant reservations about this measure, even because of a threat to stability or a potential threat to the stability of the financial market. But it is only my personal opinion, I want to emphasise that I do not express here the position of social democracy or the position of the social democracy club. It is my position, the Minister's opinion, my position, he knows my approach to the tax package. [[15.00 hours]] However, the Ministry of Finance's measure is intended to add one-off funds to the state budget of 10 billion. For the first time, the tax on technical provisions should be reflected only in 2021 to 2022. It is worth pointing out, and I would like to stress that social democracy prefers a banking tax, or taxation of bank assets, which would bring a circus of 14 billion to the state budget each year. CZK, and it would not only be a one-off benefit, as in the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies. It is a fact, and it must be acknowledged that the state budget is based on the income of laws that are not yet legislatively adopted. How the Ministry of Finance will react, if the revenue structure changes, I'm sure the Minister will explain it. In the state budget, there is also an annualisation of the contribution to the administration's performance of a total of 5%. It must be honestly said that despite this valorization - and thanks for it, even for the 5% - the regions and municipalities still pay for the performance of the state administration from their own. Of course, someone can say that it is from taxes, from the tax collection that the state collects, from tax collections. But that's right, they're paying for the administration's performance. The State therefore does not pay for everything it orders from municipalities and regions within the state administration. I think it needs to be fixed and that it should be fixed. And that it should even be equal. But that's a very common discussion here. Similarly, for the sixth year, the Ministry of Finance has promised to cross out some tax exemptions and exemptions, but I have not yet noticed any comprehensive concrete proposal. So the state is fleeing funds in the order of tens of billions, especially on the exceptions that some powerful groups have been lobbying for former governments. I publicly say that social democracy has been ready for years, but we hear only excuses from the Ministry of Finance all the time, and why it can't be done. koneckonců all, the President of the Republic was also talking about excluding some exceptions and reliefs. It must also be said that, in the previous parliamentary term, an amendment was announced by the Ministry of Finance or a comprehensive amendment to the Income Tax Act, which is not yet there. So, ladies and gentlemen, the state budget for 2020 at first reading, if I speak for myself, I will support it. The Social Democracy Club will, of course, also support it. I, of course, do not exclude that we are going to prepare some amendments, both at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and for the second reading of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u80	This was Mr Václav Votava, and I will now ask Mr Petr Bendl to speak and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u81	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I am not going to talk about the overall picture of the state budget, we have enjoyed quite a lot today, but I would like to draw your attention to some of the issues in the various chapters. I'd start with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. When I was studying the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I was struck by planning some funds. This is mainly about the so-called active employment policy proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I think that the Ministry of Finance will probably increase by 1.4 billion compared to last year. CZK for active employment policy. That means looking, supporting job search. I do not think that this is so current at the moment, because the Czech Republic is enjoying a situation that is unprecedented from the point of view of the labour market situation, we have an unprecedentedly low percentage of the unemployed. On the contrary, our Social Committee has been going through several months of debate with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in fact with the Ministry of Finance, as both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs promised financial resources to the regions which caused state legislation in the field of providing social services. The consensus at the beginning of this year was that it is necessary to cover about 2 billion. CZK to ensure that social welfare at regional level does not deteriorate. The Ministry of Finance found 0.5 billion, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also 0.5 billion, but if you count well, you will find that you will receive the 1 billion. missing. I think it would be worth it - and I would call a little bit on the attention of Members who are also the commanders to draw attention, because it does not seem logical to me that we are increasing by 1.4 billion. the financial contribution of the State to active employment policy at the moment when we are lacking, and clearly lacking, the funds to provide social services at regional level. I would ask the Minister to respond to this fact, because it does not give me logic. The second thing I would ask for an explanation. We have repeatedly intersected the Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister Havlíček, on a matter approved by the Government in 2017, and this is an allocation of some 250 million. CZK to solve the old mining environmental burden under Kladno. Maybe some of you know, maybe some of you don't, there's a lake of about 170 miles below Kladno. Cubs of water that can be drawn and can be used during drought, at a time when the Czech Republic is affected by water and water shortages. It would be a terrible mistake if what was announced in the media had happened that the Ministry of Industry and Trade had taken from this activity, the use of these financial resources, which the government approved in 2017, distanced and that it would not continue to do so. The Minister of Industry and Trade said in response to the interpelations that the funds will remain allocated and that the agreement between the various ministries will be, be it the Ministry of Agriculture, which would take over the funds or the Ministry of the Environment. I didn't find them in any chapter, and so my question is - and it doesn't matter who answers if the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and Trade, who isn't here, I see that now only the poor Minister of Finance is here - oh, the Minister of Culture is here, but he doesn't listen to me. Still, I'd just like an answer. [[Responses from the government bench.]] Ah, we haven't had the honor of being together yet, Secretary of Defense. I'm so sorry. If you are able to answer this question, I will be grateful: if the 250 million is still in place, because it cannot be excluded that there will be environmental damage under Kladno, because the water is rising there first and could absorb environmental damage in the former area of the Police, and, on the contrary, the funds would certainly contribute to the possibility of drawing water and using it in the water series system as there are projects at the level of Kladno, which have been communicated with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That's why the simple question is, where's the quarter-billion, because I didn't find it. And now I would like to take a little bit more notes on the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, whose budget is - or the total revenue is actually lower than it used to be in recent years, and that budget is shrinking. I have focused on the priorities that we have often declared here together that they should be in the area of state priorities. I'm going to start spending on forests, because you all know what damage the pests are doing, especially the crust, the forest vegetation, and how much we could use the funds that have been generated under some of you hated civil democrats' governments in the past. [[15.10 hours]] The amount produced by the Forests of the Czech Republic during the ODS government period was approximately 34 billion. CZK, which you have gradually dissolved in the state budget, and now we are in a situation that the Ministry of Agriculture is in a difficult position to look for funds to address the damage or disaster committed by the crust because we are really getting into an area of expenditure that is unbelievable. One billion crowns issued by the Ministry of Forestry may be possible at this moment, but I would like to appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture to count on the situation to deteriorate, because not only the crust, but also the large-headed beach, which we have been talking about, which may not have to say anything to any of you, is about to do more damage. And if it doesn't help the Ministry of the Environment to wipe out the big-headed beeper while he's still doing so much damage, the costs in the field of forest revitalization will be much higher. Water expenses. I am in the past, and it is possible to prove this, especially in 2016 and 2017, criticised the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, after all, ceased to deal with the topic of water. When you look at the budget for 2016 and 2017, there was a significant, hundred million restrictions and in quotation marks the investigation in the wrong place, where the cost of water was CZK half a billion. That was 2017. At this point, I must commend the Department of Agriculture that it plans to invest in water management in the area, a category of about 1.8 billion. Crowns. Although this is not quite sufficient, there is a clear trend that the Ministry of Agriculture wants to devote itself to water, and objectively I say that it deserves praise or thanks. Perhaps some of the benefits of the draft chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. I consider it right and good that most of the subsidy titles managed by the Ministry of Agriculture are to be organised and controlled in the future by the paying agency, which is the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, because there is greater supervision, and I think that the experience of granting subsidies to agriculture is much better for the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund. What I would like to commend is expenditure on so-called. land changes that rise from those continuously used flights between 850 and 900 miles. CZK, it's an increase to 1.35 billion. Crowns. But what I would point out and what I think would be wrong in the future - I am concerned about PGRLF. I think that this guarantee fund should provide funds for the future, not as a standard bank, but should help farmers to reduce the interest burden on individual loans. But he shouldn't be a standard bank. It should help in future in crisis situations, situations where the bank, for example due to weather, etc. refuses to finance and lend to farmers because the weather is uncertain. And that's where the role of the Supporting and Guaranteed peasant and forestry fund should be to provide money. What I consider to be very important is the welfare and welfare of animals here is proposed to amount more than 1 billion. Crowns. If we look back for several years, the funds started to be allocated in this direction sometime in 2009, I suspect still for the Minister of Agriculture Gandalovič, who came up with the new title, where the state decided that animal welfare had to be addressed. From then on, from 2009 to this year, we will be moving somewhere in the order of approximately 10 billion. CZK, which the state invests in the area of Welfar. Yet we are constantly faced with situations where animal welfare is not a good thing, but on the contrary, the situations that we see mediated from the media are quite catastrophic. Animal cruelty is almost a daily media issue. And if the Czech Republic spends a billion crowns a year on welfare of animals, then it would probably be a good idea to look at the details and efficiency of the funds so spent, whether we are not doing something wrong, or whether the person who draws funds in the area of welfare, whether it is also drawn by chance and also does not treat the animals as they deserve. What I would like to draw attention to, and I would like to ask and call on the Minister of Agriculture to analyse the project called... It's called Milk Q, which is aid for milk production and distribution of this financial support. I think there are things that need to be discussed. Maybe not at this point in time on the subject of the state budget, but certainly everyone is whispering about how this project works, and I feel that the Ministry of Agriculture should be more in charge of spending in this direction and this project should be under greater control. Thank you for your attention and for your answers, or for any response to the questions I have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u82	Now I have a point in fact here, so I will ask Mr Marian Jurečka to comment. And Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared in a general debate. Your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just actually respond to my previous speaker, Mr Bendl. A lot of things have been said, but I consider two essential. He mentioned the allegedly underfunded area of water management in 2016, 2017 and praised the current management of the resort here. I just want to mention that the state budget proposal dates for these years do not show real, real investments in this area in general as well as in other sectors of the Ministry of Agriculture, and especially in the field of water management, these budget amounts were lower, because we have consumed unused claims from previous years as well as from the period of Minister Bendl. And if you look at the absolute amounts that went and then in those years were administered and paid in the water sector, it was one of the highest amounts in the last eight years. With regard to the PGRLF mentioned here, it is necessary to look at the report on the state of water management. In the so-called Blue Report, Members have this information and approve it in the Chamber of Deputies. And with regard to the loans it provides today On the contrary, I believe that if the State wants to motivate the private sector to offer good offers to farmers, it makes sense to have a small amount of this own instrument in the area of credit. Because at the time we introduced this, all of a sudden, even those commercial sectors had to level up and improve their offers for small farmers. To give under better conditions these small loans to e.g. deferment of payment or drawing of loans and subsequent repayment was not charged, so it happened only when PGRLF entered this sector and began to provide these, albeit previously only commercial, services and farmers. That is why I think it makes sense for us to stay and, to some reasonable extent, to provide this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u84	Thank you, too, for keeping the time precise. One more point of fact. Mr Petr Bendl will respond. And if it is not another factual one, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u85	Thank you. I, through Mr President, would just tell the former Minister the facts. I have the draft budget ahead of me. The draft water management budget of 2016 1.3 billion - one whole three, that is, if it were any inheritance, it was at this level - and in 2017 0.5 billion. And with PGRLF, I'm just saying that it's supposed to continue to serve to help and support interest on loans and possibly solve crisis situations. PGRLF should not behave like a standard bank, but it should have these tools in order to be able to help farmers finance situations that they themselves are unable to influence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u86	Mr Marian Jurečka's response now. Ambassador, your two minutes. So far, the final application for de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u87	Thank you. Mr President, I am not arguing with you about what was in the draft budget for that year. I wanted to mention here in front of the House and in front of the public that this number cannot evaluate how much the Ministry of Agriculture went into the water sector in a given year, because you do not see any unused claims involved in that number from the years past, and you do not see a number where - and you know it yourself - there are additional transfers between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance during the year after agreement with the government, for example, the water economy was one of the investment instruments. So the real amount was significantly higher, in the order of 1 to 1.5 billion, plus what you just said here. And these figures, as much as has been invested in a given year, will be found by Members in the report on water management, which I also have here to discuss, at least on the Committee on Agriculture. And for that PGRLF, again I am just returning to the fact that at the moment when these, albeit for someone at first glance commercial, services and in the area of credit began to provide PGRLF, so in general the entire private sector modified, and procliently modified, those commercial products that had been, say, more expensive were less accessible to farmers and the agricultural sector as a whole brought a relatively important, significant benefit. That is why I think it makes sense to some reasonable extent for the State to retain this instrument. But I think that this is already a matter of opinion conflict, which I think we need to have a debate on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u88	Now I'm going to read one apology. He apologizes from the meeting between 14.30 and 22.45 hours due to the meeting of Mr Jiří Kobza. Now, therefore, the general debate, so I call on Mr Jan Hrnčíř to speak and Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD will not support the state budget that continues to indebt future generations. Although the aforementioned draft budget expects higher tax revenues on astronomical CZK 113 billion compared to this year, the government is unable to save a crown and is counting on a deficit of CZK 40 billion, in addition, at a time of relatively significant economic growth. The government YES, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM does not manage with the care of a proper economic operator. In our opinion, the draft budget should be balanced or surplus. I consider it an alarming increase in the cost of state and public administration. [[In an elevated voice.]] It is totally unacceptable to renew individual budget chapters in the area of unaddressed social benefits to unadaptable, inclusion in education, financing of political non-profit organizations and a number of foreign operations of our army. While the proposal envisages abolishing the number of civil servants' tables, but only those vacant ones, it does not actually reduce the numbers in the state administration and bureaucracy. The government also plans to recruit nearly 6,000 new civil servants. About half of them are supposed to fill the posts of so-called teaching assistants because of senseless inclusion in education. Those assistants have already requested 21,000 inclusions. The cost of inclusive education thus increases rocketically at the expense of the liquidation of a far more effective special education. And that money is also missing from teachers' salaries. Over the past six years, the number of civil servants has increased by almost 50,000 people, increasing the demands on the state budget by 35 billion crowns a year. There were at least 9 new state authorities and institutions. The SPD movement insists on - thank you. [[- If you hadn't screamed so...]] I'll be quieter. I'm sorry. Okay, I'll move on. The SPD movement insists on substantial savings in the administration of the state. A permanent increase in the number of civil and public servants creates an artificial shortage of labour and a false need for the import of labour from abroad. The government continues to pursue a completely poor social policy of the state, as the benefits of material emergency are paid not only to the needy, but also to people who are working hard. It's demoralizing and it's aggravating social problems. More than CZK 150 billion of the state budget is spent each year on unaddressed social benefits, and today, virtually everyone who asks for it will receive a benefit in material distress. According to recent analyses, the number of slum houses, streets and neighborhoods has doubled over the past ten years. The number of socially excluded localities has also increased. There have also been an increase in people who live in these locations. Instead of 80,000, there are now more than 115,000. The situation has not changed as compared to the data from previous years' reports, and the situation is not improving even at the time of economic growth. The government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement and also the previous government, with the participation of KDU-ČSL, did not offer any solutions. The SPD movement promotes the fundamental address of social benefits so that only people with working history, disabled people and their family members who care for them, and not inadaptable citizens who have never worked, receive them, even though they can work in the long term, but do not want to do so. According to economists, the Czech Republic is becoming one of Europe's most expensive countries for its inhabitants. With Czech salaries, we buy much less things than people in the surrounding states to the west of us. We have much more expensive apartments, electricity, water or food. Moreover, experts expect the situation to deteriorate further. Prices of food, housing and, for example, electricity are among the highest in the European Union compared to average salaries, which are one third of those of countries such as Germany. In addition, two thirds of our working citizens will not reach an average wage, which is currently about 34,000 CZK gross. This leaves people with less and less money in their wallet. Currently, over 20,000 flats are missing in Prague alone. Rent housing is also expensive, which is increasingly less accessible especially to young people. Monetary policy of the Czech National Bank also contributes to this, which also increases interest rates, which are further reflected in the increase in mortgage loans. Everything is the result of the poor economic policy of the current Brussels governments, including the current government of the ANO and ČSSD movement with the support of the KSČM. In the long term, we draw attention to too large margins of multinational groups, which in addition pay their profits and dividends to their parent countries. Transnational groups save on wages, and our state often pays people the basic standard of living through social benefits. It's a colonial system that exploits our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u90	This was Mr Jan Hrnčíř, and I am now calling for Mr Jan Zahradník's speech and for Mrs Kateřina Valachová to be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u91	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I, like every year in recent years when I am a member of the House, will speak with my comment on one of the chapters of the draft state budget, which concerns my focus and my position in the ODS Club, and this is to Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment. This is a chapter that is one of the smallest compared to the rest. Its 15 billion that it manages is actually 1 per cent of the entire package of 1.6 trillion state budget spending. [[15.30 hours]] So it would seem that it does not make much sense to deal with this chapter, but when we look inside it, we see that there are topics that are quite often mentioned today, whether in global debate, in European debate, but also in the debate here in our country, whether among citizens or in the media. Of course, it is about climate, climate change, whether we people have caused climate change by our life on Earth and whether we have to fight them or whether it is more appropriate to prepare for changes that may also take place in the natural development that takes place over the billions of years of our planet's existence. It seems to me that our budget is such a stable material that if we compare it with the draft budget of chapter 315 of the previous years, there is quite a few changes. Although the truth is that there are some changes going on here, and I would like to mention them in my speech. I'll start with income. The revenues of our chapter of the Ministry of Environment are budgeted at 27 billion. CZK, which means an increase of 12 billion. as compared to the budget of 2019. Where did that money come from? Did the state suddenly decide to deal with environmental issues? But it is because the general part of the revenue side of the budget comes from EU funds, about 9.6 billion, and then there is about 17.3 billion. CZK presented as expected revenue from the sale of emission allowances. We have been talking about emission allowances here quite often in recent years and months. In fact, before the third reading, we have a law that concerns emission allowances and which is supposed to change the situation to some extent and responds to the fact that the price of emission allowances, which used to be in the order of the euro, is now going to be between EUR 20 and EUR 30 per allowance, which is precisely the reason that allowances are being sold so expensive and that much more money is being deducted for them than before. So revenue is equal to 27 billion. If we look at the expenditure structure of the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment, here we have spending around 15.9, maybe 16 billion. Crowns. If the reader had read it without knowing the context, he would have told us where the 12 billion were. the difference between revenue and expenditure. They're probably in the fact that the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Trade share the money torn down for the sale of allowances. They are in our income budget, but part of the money is then managed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Expenditure on European projects, as the end of the programming period approaches, is increasing, and the losses incurred at the beginning of the period need to be caught up. So now the expenditure is 9,6 billion. and they're about 2 billion. taller than last year. Here we have roughly this division of the individual expenditure blocks. We have nature and landscape protection - with about 10% subsidies, technical protection of the environment with 26%, climate and air protection - 38% and other environmental activities - 26% of the expenditure package. As regards the coverage of these expenditure entitlements, the largest part is covered by European Union funds, with a total of 9.7 billion. goes into this chapter, it accounts for about 61 percent of the coverage of expenditure items. The emission allowances are then, of course, at a higher percentage, it's about 14 percent, about 2.2 billion, and the state budget here then covers 24 percent, which is roughly 3.8 billion. Crowns. If we look in detail at the first spending block - nature and landscape protection, the most important spending circuit is the improvement of nature and landscape status with a subsidy of 1.5 billion. CZK, with the first programme, a programme for landscape care, there are allocated funds of 300 million. CZK, which means an increase of 100 percent compared to last year. Yes, all right, according to the author of the text, they were obtained at the meeting of Minister Brabec with the Minister of Finance and should aim to combat the consequences of climate change. Well, 150 miles. extra. But what remains to almost the original amount is a program which I often mention and which is called Support for the restoration of natural landscape functions for the years 2019 to 2028. And here we have the adaptation measures to mitigate the impact of climate change that is happening. I don't think any of us are questioning that. And they are adaptation measures on the impact of climate change on aquatic ecosystems or on forest ecosystems as well. And here it remains essentially in the tens of millions of crowns, although the item increases from 30 miles. 40 miles. And here I think, I guess the secretary noticed, I always suggested that he be there 10 miles. Adds, but she probably forgot and put it there from some not-quite-clear impulse. So there's an increase of 10 miles. Crowns. I am considering making an amendment that I would just be heading into this programme. There seems to me to be little money, it would take more money, to strengthen it 10, 20 million crowns. Another important spending block is protection - here we have three, climate protection and air protection. [[Nesroz.]] That's what's moving the world today. It's 6.1 billion. Crowns. So I would like to mention the expenditure heading for improving air quality and reducing emissions, where it is a significant part of 2 billion. CZK - a programme to improve air quality at human headquarters, which we know under the name of a boiler subsidy. We know that with pot subsidies, it's always a little ambiguous. It is one of the few programmes that the Ministry of Environment manages to implement within European funds. Otherwise, they are very unsuccessful in this, and perhaps because these programs are managed by individual regions, regional authorities. Although we have now witnessed in recent weeks that because of a rather inappropriate system of competition for subsidies, when the first one on the tape, which gives his application and receives the subsidy, was flooded with servers of some regions, we were witnesses in South Bohemia, when at six o'clock in the morning, when applicants are supposed to give their applications electronically, the server was somewhat figuratively said standing in the queue to submit applications in a virtual environment overwhelmed and collapsed. But in the end, it worked out somehow. [[15.40 hours]] I do not know to what extent this run is suitable for those projects that resemble the Wild West settlers' race in their covered cars towards the west to hatch their territory. There, however, when someone stepped forward in line or behaved dishonestly, the sheriff punished him properly. There's nothing like that going on here. Plus, we still can't be sure that the boiler subsidies are fulfilling the purpose they have, whether they are effective. I hope so. I just think that they should be more focused on the low-income levels of the population, because they are burning non-compliant fuels and infecting the environment in their regions. Here's a table on page 31, and here's the thing that the minister signed, so I think he read it, the chart. That's one way to quote it. So here are the first ten projects to be implemented here individually. So here is the IČO listed, the Karlovy Vary Region, the event number, the name of the event, the boiler subsidies in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Third challenge. Or a second item. Again the recipient of the Karlovy Vary Region, the exchange of heat sources for solid fuels in family houses in the Central Bohemia Region. 2-19-2-23. Plzeň Region of the beneficiary, it is again intended to implement the action reducing emissions from local heating of households in the South Bohemia Region three. I guess it's pretty clear that the clerk's spread the tablet and got it all mixed up. But that there's such a mess on such material with such nice paper you're handing over to us on this chapter's notebook, which I don't think is right, and the Minister should be dealing with it for a while. Well, that's for the cauldron subsidies. Another important point that I usually deal with is non-investment subsidies to non-profit organisations. I always look for possible subsidies for non-governmental non-profit organisations in the table of expenditures that form part of the table part of the budget. And I have to say, in the text section, the petitioner admits 20 miles. as a subsidy to non-investment non-profit organisations in the field of the environment. But the tablet contains other things. Here we have, for example, an item protection of species and habitats, non-investment transfers to associations of 50 miles. in 2018, it is not at all in 2019 and 2020. Does that mean they don't get it, that it's already been paid, or doesn't the table just contain it? She's very, very poorly filled in the table. A lot of appropriations for the 2020 budget are not included at all. It's going to give her a great deal of value. When I compared it to the table that was presented last year, it was much more eloquent and better worked with her. Other item - compensation for losses of municipalities in the territory of national parks. Here, too, I usually try to help the municipalities, because they actually bear the burden that their territory lies or vice versa, that the national park lies on their cadastral territories, so I will propose here an amount of 5,600,000 to strengthen so that per hectare of their loaded area is not paid just CZK 95 but more. Each year I mention the transfer item to international organisations, where we put a quarter of a billion crowns. These are the various obligations arising from the Montreal Protocol, the agreement to protect the Elbe, the use of the Danube and so on. I've always asked the Ministry through Minister Brabec if they wouldn't be so kind as to make an overview of the transfers, or maybe they've made an inventory that's still as beneficial and that's no longer. But I've never heard back from this call before, and I've never been successful. Here's just 250 miles. The CZK spends on these transfers, while we could certainly find a few tens of millions and give them, for example, to improve the functions of the landscape and the adaptation measures, as I mentioned them. Payrolls and employees. The material boasts a little by reducing it. But he forgets that between 2018 and 2019 there was an increase of about 236 employees, so now it's a bit lower. The salaries are rising, that's all right. The increase in average salary is CZK 1,500. And finally, I'd like to mention the National Park of Sumava here. You know I'm close to Sumava, so I'd like it to be explained, they've had 160 miles here. roughly, today they have 186, while, of course, half the area of Šumava is promoted without intervention, i.e. non-inhibiting. I'd quite like to, and I need to discuss with Principal Hubený, what the money is being spent on. Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed myself here to imagine my view of chapter 315. I must say, I do not consider the structure of the budget and its formal form a good one. Some of us had something to do in some regional or municipal government, so we are accustomed to a different form, to a much more detailed and eloquent and more transparent form of budget. It's just hard to tell here what operating expenses are, what capital costs are, etc. So, like last time, as before last year, here too, I dare to criticise the external formal form of the draft budget. As I have already announced, at second reading, I will try to make a proposal for a change, especially the two items that I have mentioned here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u92	I would now request a speech by Mrs Kateřina Valachová and prepare for Mrs Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to comment on the draft State budget for 2020, particularly in the field of education. The government shall carry out its programming declaration covering at least 150 per cent of the salary in 2017 both towards pedagogical staff and towards non-teaching staff. Of course, what is important to say is that this alone is a minimum commitment. However, I would like to say that I appreciate it, and I am not saying this for the first time or for the last time, by your means, Mr President, from the point of view of how she approaches the draft budget of what concerns the education system, the education system. I appreciate that the Ministry of Finance has respected - and it has been for several years, and it is good, it is very good, and it has not been so before, and there was underfinancing of our schools and the salaries of teachers and non-teachers - the following principles: First, for several years in a row, both teacher's salaries and the salaries of non-teaching workers have been growing. Every school principal knows that if he doesn't get enough into both of these groups, he's dragging himself over to what's called a loony bone, and he's missing somewhere. After all, the fact that school directors had to deal with this earlier and are still forced to do so to a lesser extent somewhere, tells the state's final accounts, which show that our objective, which is expected in the draft budget and therefore budget expenditure, is, for example, an increase in teachers' salaries by 15 %, as it was last year, and consequently an increase in the wages of non-teaching workers by 10 %, so that although everything is paid in volume, these amounts do not fit in real terms and teachers will mostly achieve a real increase by about 10 percent. [[15.50 hours]] It is also owed to add that, of course, the money will not disappear completely and that repeatedly non-teaching workers in real wages, I note on average, on the contrary, gain more than has been budgeted. However, I appreciate the fact that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have been doing the same in the case of teacher salaries and salaries for non-teaching workers for several years, increasing volumes in both categories. The second thing that is important in terms of the budget, and I am glad that the budget again respects it - I note that this good practice has only been returned to the Ministry of Finance since 2016, at least ten years before that, in terms of funding our schools, the real number of children in schools, in short, how many children we must teach, how many children have attendance, and how many public schools are taking place. This was again one of the reasons for the underfinancing of Czech education. The Ministry of Finance has also respected this since 2016 and also in this draft budget for 2020 we have so-called "extra performances," i.e. The Ministry of Finance respects the real numbers of children in schools. So let's say this is the second principle, which is quite right. The third principle - and here I would say that this has already happened about twice in the last five years, but now it happens for the third time and it happens in the highest volume, when the Ministry of Finance in the next year, i.e. in the outlook, is already counting on at least some basic amount for teacher's salaries and salaries of non-teaching workers, their increases. This is a matter that is fully in line with the House's recommendation resolutions, which we have repeatedly adopted since 2016, so that we can see, in the medium term, how school budgets will grow, how the budget of the Ministry of Education will grow. I would also like to appreciate this matter. What goes red for many years of this and previous government, where we try to get the money we win for teachers in the government and approve here in the Chamber of Deputies, and they find it there, i.e. In order to have fair funding for schools and to ensure that each teacher really adds as much as we have budgeted or as we have decided, the reform of regional education funding should be launched here from 1 January in full force. I note that, although we call it noble reform, basically from the point of view of public finances, because we are discussing the state budget, it only means that we will be able to control what we are called. at the top, at the Ministry of Education, we will decide, after approval by the House, from the point of view of the budget for education, that we will also have full control under the monitoring of these funds towards schools and we will be sure that each school will receive enough funding from the point of view of salary rates and the evaluation in volume to ensure wage increases and wages. I think this is a big thing, though, as I say, we call it noble reform, and basically it means simple monitoring of public funds and something that may be quite clear to some extent that it should be, but it hasn't been, and we've been waiting 20 years to reform regional education funding. You know that the reform of regional education funding was enforced under previous governments in the spring of 2017, when I pushed for it. I must say that I am very pleased, therefore, that with an annual delay, that the reform of regional education funding will be fully started from 1 January, and I must say that in terms of practice, as I see it in schools, it was also appreciated, even if it was an annual delay, that funding for regional education funding reform has gradually begun to be released by the Ministry of Education, which is the most important thing to feel in kindergarten schools, but also in terms of the other system of schools, all of them in terms of additional resources divided in autumn of this year, let's say for preparation, for the start of reform from 1 January. This is in terms of my positive budget composition, and it is fair from the point of view of what has been promised by the programme statement and in what we have also established - and education, above all, needs stability - on the previous government. However, I will certainly also comment on what we should bear in mind from the point of view of fulfilling the programming declaration, because we are in the middle of the House's term of office, the legislative process has some way to go, and if we want to keep our promises and commitments, sometimes, for which teachers are waiting here for a very long time, we are waiting here in the House in addition to the budget work and the budget approval work also the work of amending the laws. First of all, I would like to point out that, as I have commended - and I really think that this is a good thing, even though it is constantly criticising itself that it is little - the government's efforts to increase the education budget, so I also have to say that, of course, something is not spoken so publicly and it is good to talk about it publicly before not fulfilling what we have promised. In fact, if we are talking about a minimum increase in the salaries of teachers and the wages of non-teaching workers, we should also focus on the commitment of our government to improve the support of teachers so that they can concentrate fully on teaching. It sounds like a cliché, but I assure you that teachers and school directors know very well what this sentence means. It is also no coincidence that this sentence appeared in the Government's programming declaration. The point is, in terms of increasing pay rates, or, let's say, the personal surcharges of teachers, other non-teaching workers, that is, frankly, the absolute minimum. We need much more to really improve education in our schools and really improve the conditions of teachers and other teaching staff in schools. We need to evaluate the other pedagogical professions sufficiently, we need to radically increase and by law ensure an increase in class fees, specialization surcharges, but we also need to provide sufficient funding for so-called. direct pedagogical activity. Those of you who do not pursue this material professionally, specially, do not have it in your portfolio, simply means that a number of professions such as. The methodology for school prevention, effective in schools, can only work if they also have enough space in addition to their teaching capacity to pursue this specialization. Of course, all of this costs money, no doubt, and we should therefore strive to make sure that this commitment, at the latest in the next budget, can be fulfilled and not forgotten that it is in the government's programming declaration. With regard to class fees and specialization supplements, it is necessary to understand certain restlessness or perhaps impatience, in quotation marks please, teachers and teachers. We must remember that it was the Chamber of Deputies and then the Senate in 2017, which was approved by the so-called Chamber of Deputies. Career order. There was a big debate about it, there was a lot of what's there, or what's not there, but what was there and what's important to say was the increase in class fees, there was money for giving teachers, there was an increase in specialization fees. If we recall what happened in the Senate, nothing happened there that anyone would disagree with these steps when they returned to the House. It was a few months before the election and all that happened was that we were told - it's not enough, it's not enough, give more. And then the Chamber of Deputies didn't approve anything three months before the elections. And do you know what has happened since then from the point of view of class fees, specialization supplements, reduction of direct pedagogical activity, simply system quality? Nothing happened. [[16.00 hours]] Nothing happened, because we are simply taking further steps in terms of raising the salaries and wages of teachers and non-teaching workers, but thinking that teachers and other school workers are satisfied with this is quite naive. Of course, the increase in salaries and salaries in schools is correct, but it is also important to say that, to some extent, even after huge amounts in the last three or four years, the increase in the education budget, so it is still from the point of view of average salaries, the average wages in education, the differences we have with other systems, such as police officers, firefighters, health workers, nurses. I'm not talking about doctors. In 1990 it was so that doctors and teachers took about the same way. Now ask how many doctors they're taking. I see the Minister of Health has bludgeoned his eyes. I certainly do not want to reduce the wages or salaries of doctors, but we all know that this is at least 2.5 times the average of the teacher's salary. And that's not fair. It is not fair because, in terms of health and health care, of course, we want us to have qualified doctors in hospitals to take care of our health. However, I also think that we should strive to ensure that the same conditions and the same approach are directed towards teachers, so that the best of us are taught. It's a natural thing to teach the best of us, and it's something we should fight for and not give up on. So I would like to point out once again that, in terms of improving quality, class fees and specialization fees, we have not moved on this matter. To be fair, if I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Education has opened up an increase in class fees and I hope I am accurate if I say that there has been an increase of about 100 crowns at some level. Another thing I would like to draw attention to is that during the previous term of office of the government, we have been doing so for several years that we have so-called equalizing the increase in pay grades in salary levels, and we have levelled it so that, as is the older teacher, the teacher in school, so that this, let's say, pay machine works so that the longer the teacher is in school, the teacher is, so that it also increases, not jumping, but regular pay rates. I note that this effort cost us high funds in the billions of crowns in terms of pay rates. As far as pay rates are concerned, we have done so-called. Dobešův's reforms, you may remember this, straighten it out, and also in the long-term intention of the education system, which is now under discussion by the Education Committee, and it will also be discussed by the House plenary, also there in terms of the previous long-term intention, this is positively acknowledged. I quote, it is an official government document that the flat-rate settlement is positively acknowledged. The reason why I am talking about this is that we here approve the volume that is given to the budget, but what we do not approve, and the Chamber of Deputies obviously has no influence on this, how it will subsequently take place from the point of view of the Ministry of Education to decide how the salaries will be increased, that is, what the ratio will be between salary rates and personal surcharges. The fact that this public funds, and therefore state budgets in recent years, cost huge money in the billions of crowns, the levelling of pay and salary rates at the so-called. This is also crucial in terms of budgetary importance in terms of public funds because we are now learning from the public media or from the media, but also from the school committee that it is the intention of the Ministry of Education to increase the salaries of all teachers by a fixed amount - I note a fixed amount - and consequently there is some kind of licensing that is not terminated in terms of the Ministry of Education, with other participants in this, say, social dialogue or tripartite dialogue, how in particular teachers' salaries and the wages of non-teaching workers will increase. I mention it because, of course, it doesn't make any sense. It does not make sense first of all from public sources in line with the long-term aim of the education system to straighten the pay machine and the teacher's table, invest billions of crowns in it, praise it for how it was done in the long-term intention of the education system that Parliament is now discussing, and subsequently propose an increase by a fixed amount, which, of course, will disturb this machine. As regards the increase in salaries or wages of non-teaching workers, I must appreciate it, and it is of budgetary importance in terms of budget, that the school committee clearly stated on what basis the Ministry of Education is based on in terms of fulfillment of its promise, or our promise, of the government's promise, i.e. minimum wage growth of 150 percent, their amount, for 2017. It was said that this is April 2018, so the amount published there, and this is what we are supposed to derive from the minimal fulfilment of this commitment by the government. I think that this is important information, because, as you know, the House has repeatedly adopted resolutions on repeated increases in the salaries of teachers, and I am glad that we have made this clear and we can discuss this here and, in this sense, not only in terms of the budget, but also other things within the framework of changes in the education system. What I would like to point out, and I would like to see more scope for this in the debate, including, where appropriate, the parties of the Minister of Education, is the Government's commitment to universities, public universities, because we see some criticism, which has therefore also been brought to us within the school committee of the parties of higher education workers, academic and non-academic. I would probably stress especially the non-academic ones, because they are sometimes forgotten that they are also needed to ensure the running of universities, and we will also deal with this in the coming weeks on the subcommittee of the Education Committee and then the Education Committee. I think that, in view of the commitments we have in the Government's programming declaration, but also in view of the valid House resolution, which, by the way, also concerns the salaries and wages of academic and non-academic workers, if you read them carefully, I would be happy to use the opportunity, as a government, to explain this when discussing the budget, what is the next plan, so that the House's recommendations or the programme statement can be fulfilled by the end of the government's term of office. Thank you. Thank you in advance for that. Of course, I thank you in advance for this, also in terms of academic and non-academic workers in public higher education. The last thing I would like to mention, and I would like it to be the subject of a debate, is the fact of investing in school infrastructure. We are all aware of a public, professional debate, but I think that also civil, which concerns that we will, of course, achieve further qualitative improvements within the education system, especially if we can ensure fewer children in classrooms. It concerns both kindergartens and primary schools. Surely the government's good and honest step is, and I am glad for that, the reform of regional education funding, because it will, so to speak, give us some basic order in these matters. However, I also think that as far as the number of children in classes is concerned, we should be clear about the network of kindergartens and primary schools. This is also part of the Government's programming declaration. [[16.10 hours]] I am talking about the number of children in classes, and consequently the network of kindergartens and primary schools, especially because the question of a clear idea of what the network of schools should look like cannot be disposed of eventually by establishing municipalities, cities, in the case of secondary schools in the region. The network of schools is certainly something that the government and the Ministry of Education should apply to, and because, as a lawyer and legislation, of course, I know what laws it is necessary to open, and because I also know the legislative plan and the outlook for a legislative plan for government work, where I do not find these changes, I will be happy if we can explain or refine this today in the context of the budget discussion. This also applies, of course, to the fact that if we are changing funding in regional education, we should have an idea of the network of schools so that we can indicate very precisely the implications of the financing of private and church schools. If we are unable to do so, it can, of course, jeopardise - and therefore it has a link to the budget that we are discussing - and to the fulfilment of these commitments, for example. wages and wages, as we see them in the 2021 perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. So once again, I draw attention to the things that are really moving our education system forward in the government's programming declaration. At the same time, I think that it is a good thing to be responsible for the House's resolutions in force, which bind us both to the coalition Members and to the opposition Members, to debate those matters which arise from the point of view of these recommendations and which should appear within the framework of the budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u94	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and members of the Government, good evening. Let's keep going. Mr Zahradník is now signed up for the debate with a point of fact. Before arriving at the microphone, I will introduce you to Mrs Pekarová's apology, who apologizes between 16 and 23 o'clock for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u95	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I volunteered with a factual remark that points to my own performance. I was here criticizing the tables in the 315 chapter notebook, especially the one for the boiler subsidies. I have to say, the Ministry's already fixed those tables and they're available in the right form. I consider it fair to say this on the microphone and thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u96	There. Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Dvořák has come forward. If this is a mistake, then I would like to discuss this with Mrs Válková. Mr Klaus will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u97	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary. It is not through Mr President that I am not in the habit of speaking to the state budget. But I am here in a dual role, as well as a representative of the Czech Government for Human Rights, and in that short period of five months I had the opportunity, when I was in office, to get acquainted with a number of sores that need to be dealt with. And one of them is - and this is my promise from last week, of October 17th, when I publicly declared that I would inform the government, the Prime Minister, of course, Members, and I will mention it when discussing the state budget - is also how we express ourselves to them, how we evaluate and, above all, how we allocate funds to non-state non-profit organisations providing social care. I would point out here - particularly in the field of social affairs. We know various non-state and non-profit organizations. Not all of us are identified with the activities of all these non-state non-profit organizations. But it is totally unfair if you, I would say NNO, non-state non-profit organizations that substitute much cheaper and often very enthusiastically and in the vast majority of cases very high-quality levels of lack of civil service, respectively. the shortcomings which the State has in this area, both in terms of number, variability, flexibility of those services, and sometimes in terms of performance itself. What I'm talking about specifically. So if the state budget, I'll be more specific. Only a few numbers. In the Czech Republic we currently have 5 675 registered social services. I'm based on the data I had pulled from my registry. Of these, 60% of these social services are provided by non-state non-profit organisations. So beware - I'm talking about those who provide hospice care, who provide assistance to children who leave children's homes, and if they don't get it, they end up on the street with all the risks arising from it. I am talking about prisoners who are released, and if someone does not help them, especially after longer sentences, they are again committing criminal activity and cost us much more than if we were to give them help through these organizations. How do we treat them? We don't like them. They're not popular. We're throwing them together. We're not giving them any more. We refer to texts, social networks, people don't like nonprofits. So I'm offended by the nonprofit organizations that provide the care and that are definitely not in vain. Who help us, who complain, and for that we spit on them like politicians? Allow me this expressive, not quite typical dictionary for me, because I really don't know how to draw your attention to the fact that we're at least unfair here. It didn't make me mention that it wasn't at all easy to convince the government - luckily it did then, on the second attempt - to make an amount of 8 billion, including about 4 billion. the activities of non-state non-profit organisations in the field of sports, have been released so that the relevant subsidy titles of the ministries can be declared. I'm glad you did. I thank the Minister, too, through Mr President, for allowing herself to be convinced that this is the right moment, already, I believe, in mid-September. Because otherwise, what I've heard in these benches is that they'll survive somehow, because they're nonprofits that get subsidies from us, and then we'll check the results of their activities, so some of them would have to quit. And to be specific, I'm quoting you a few messages that I've heard with my own ears and which media has recorded when, e.g. Klára Chábová from a nonprofit organization Out of the home, which has provided social assistance and support for many years, and thus to ensure the integration of children from children's homes into society, says: Thank you for reducing the rhetoric that we have experienced from high civil servants, ministers and other politicians. It's really very important. - I'm cutting it short, of course. I don't quote everything. Next. Mrs. Zuzana Radová, director of the general benefit society Remedia Praha, which helps people in adverse psychosocial situations: I wish too much for a nonprofit to stop being a dirty word. I wish nonprofit organizations were attractive to people again, people wanted to work in them, and they found their happiness here. - She meant work fulfillment. Joint nonprofits. I also started some nonprofits. So basically, you could say two or three, because the third one didn't go well. And you never know what will happen in the field of social welfare, but you are very happy when it ends well. See, for example, the Association for Social Work in Criminal Justice, which then even turned out to be the Probation and Mediation Service. So sometimes it gets better, sometimes it gets worse. I'm not quoting the bad example. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] However, at this point, I must say that the common denominator of all non-state non-profit organisations operating in the field of social care is enthusiasm and efforts to help. But they just need the money to survive on a dignified level. What's stopping it? I promised I wouldn't be too long. Plus, I can't offer the recipe right now to the Minister in the sense that there's a clearer strategy. I was very surprised and surprised when I found out... Mr President, I feel that this is an important subject...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u98	I understand. Yes, there's an increase in the sound level in the O.R. I would ask my colleagues especially in the left side of the hall if they could calm down. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Basically, the point is that we have to set much clearer rules. I was very surprised to find out that the rules didn't work after taking up office. They haven't worked for many years. Basically, the Ministry of Finance, individual departments are burdened with an unnecessary circle, which we can cancel by setting clear rules at the Office of the Government in the sense that the government will support certain areas, such as the social area, to others that the particular government will think are not so priority, give less money to the government and negotiate with the Ministry of Finance directly. This isn't working yet. So far, the Office of the Government is negotiating with the ministries, then proposing it to the government, then acting on finance with the ministries, the ministries are finally publishing it, some are boldly writing it before the government's approval, 90 percent are waiting for the government to approve it in the most general form. Whoever puts it - in this case I did it - is being tested from the figures, so if there is any sum that the Ministry originally proposed, then, over time, the Minister of Finance has changed it, through you, Mr President, is confronted with figures for which he cannot bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u100	Madam, I will interrupt you again. I'll ask for peace again. At the same time, I will take this opportunity to say that it is possible to address the members of the government directly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u101	Thank you. I know that, but I thought this form was even more polite, but, okay, if it's okay with the secretary, I'm gonna say "Mrs. Secretary" directly. Madam Secretary can't do much in this regard yet, we have to change the rules. I promised to make a proposal in January, in March we could proceed accordingly, if we agree. So my appeal is more like that - please, as politicians and politicians, as my previous speaker has spoken here, Mrs Valachová, by your means, Mr President, so that we, too, respect our statements in this area and try to fulfil our commitments towards those who are clearly helping the state to distinguish between various non-state non-profit organizations, between those we support and may need more, perhaps less, and those that we always need, because each of us can be sick and want to financially subsidize the care provided at home, so that he does not have to go unnecessarily to expensive anonymous health establishments, constitutional hospitals, and so on, clinics. We're all gonna grow old and God forbid we're gonna need hospice care. I could also quote to you what those who provide for me were telling me. Each of us can sometimes have someone in the family who will be a black sheep, and then someone will need to give him a hand. Because if you have a record so-called "not clean," then the helping hand when it's missing gets into a vicious circle. I only picked three cases, three areas. There's a lot more of these areas. And this is also a great advantage for non-state non-profit organizations that they can take care of and provide care far more flexibly than state institutions. That's what they're non-state for. So, Madam Secretary, dear Madam Secretary, I know I can't soften you up right now to put more resources in this area. You made that clear to me at the break, too. I know I'm gonna risk my dislike for nonprofits when I said I'd get off and appeal to you. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that I will always strive for this, starting practically today, so that, from 2021 at the latest, non-state non-profit organisations in the field of social care in particular - three times underlined with an exclamation point - are given more than they have so far. I do not take the illusion that it is possible today, but if it were possible, you would surprise me very kindly, Madam Secretary, and not only me, but also thousands of people who need social care and who receive it from non-state nonprofit organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u102	Thank you very much for this performance. I beg Mr Klaus, who is next entered into the debate. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u103	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I would like to comment on the draft state budget here at first reading. I will comment on the setting itself, as is expected at first reading, by excluding education and other social matters that are being discussed here, because, if necessary, the second reading serves for this. The Tricolore Movement, our Members, will propose that the Chamber of Deputies give a budget to be revised. I quote the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government of the Czech Republic a draft law on the state budget with the following recommendation: 1. leave the income to the proposed amount; 2. reduce expenditure by 40 billion; 3. Balance balanced. 20 days' term. Reason: We live in a boom time, almost zero unemployment, yet the state budget is showing a deficit. The debt per capita in the Czech Republic is now 166 thousand. Crowns. Now plans to add another 4,000. The crown, or when a baby is born, is burdened with a debt of 170 thousand. Crowns. Of course, these debts are already paid because every debt has to be paid. In our country, the situation with total debt is not as alarming as in many other countries to the west or south of us. This has to be accepted rationally, which is why I am not talking here today, but in Western Europe we often see negative interest on ordinary deposits, because there really is nothing else to pay those states' debts than something that is even bigger, and that is the savings of people and companies. So they're taking the money away from them a little bit, and then they're bailing out the state budgets. And now what I consider to be alarming and why, after all, I am speaking. Your budget is constantly growing. In five years, 400 billion. CZK and tax burden, the compound tax quota, makes you grow relatively rocketically as well. Now it reaches a record of 35.9 %, a few years ago, in 2014, it was 33. So it looks like it's three percentage points, but it's 10 percent. And that's really alarming because, of course, you're setting expenses and mandatorial expenses. I must say that the Tricolore movement essentially wants to reduce taxes. We want to cut taxes on businessmen, people who work, and lower taxes on companies. And if you go on like this at a time when there's a conjucture, it's just not gonna be possible, because you're not going to finance all the expenses that you're raising here at all times. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This is very dangerous, which is why it is very economical to start adjusting the budget in good time. I understand politically... If you would, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u104	I understand. I welcome the Members who are coming to the O.R. and I ask that they do so in peace and, if necessary, settle in their seats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u105	I understand, of course, that you are under pressure from your minority partner, who is a Czech and Czechoslovak champion in the growth of public finances. The traditional problem of socialists, however, is that they will eventually run out of money and others, not just their own. Madam Secretary, I appeal to you to try to prevent this situation, which is why I have proposed this resolution, which I have read here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u106	Thank you. I will ask for a resolution from the rapporteurs. I beg Mr Ferjenčík, who is in the debate now. Chairman Chvojka with priority rights? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I think or believe that we will be able to discuss this today within the right time by 19 o'clock, but even if we didn't have time to talk, I would like to propose, on behalf of two clubs, the ČSSD and the YES, that the Chamber of Deputies should negotiate and vote on all proposals today after 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u108	Thank you for the suggestion. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. There's an application for check-out, that's what I did. Please log in with your voting cards again. I will wait until the number of applicants is settled and corresponds to the number of Members in the Chamber. For those who are coming, I repeat that we will be voting on whether there can be a procedural and territorial discussion of the draft laws after 19 o'clock. That is how other Members are coming. Again, for the newcomers from the right: we will vote on whether we can negotiate today and vote on the laws in a procedural and territorial manner even after the 19th hour. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 153, 144 Members and Members are registered, for 102, against 14. The motion was accepted, so today we will continue after 19 o'clock if necessary. And now we will continue the debate. So I now ask Mr Ferjenčík, and I ask for peace in the hall. [[Almost no response.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador. Or maybe we'll just wait a little longer for the O.R. to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly comment on the draft state budget for the first reading, i.e. its basic parameters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u110	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I can't hear it, so I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues again to calm down in the hall, or to move their negotiations related to something other than the government's draft budget to the lobby or to the offices. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, I'm here for the Pirates Club to make a brief comment on the draft state budget. We see as the fundamental problem of the government's proposal that it is primarily driven by inertia. There is simply no single line that, in the last almost six years of government YES and social democracy, has been leading to some budgetary policy. Andrej Babiš once promised a balanced budget. It's obviously not happening. He promised to build infrastructure, he's been swinging his giant investment plan around here from time to time - that's not happening either. And the share of mandatory and semi-mandatory spending in that budget has already risen to 76 percent. That means about three quarters of the budget are things that no one can move without legislative change. So just a quarter of the money that the state manages is money that the government can actually do what it wants to do with, plus the share is actually even smaller, because probably no one reasonable from one day to the next will stop long-term transport investments, investments in infrastructure, and even grant programs that somebody doesn't have to agree with, it's difficult to cross off quickly in time, because, for example, agriculture would be very hard to do if we cut all subsidies one time, even if we think it's necessary to adjust the rules significantly. So the government's operating space is disappearing completely. What is even worse - in those few years of government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, the dependence of the state budget and the revenue of the Treasury on labour taxation has increased. The revenue of the state's labour taxation budget, that is, from social security contributions and from personal income money, increased by 50 per cent, while the rest of the income increased by only 12 per cent. This is simply a huge imbalance, and it also poses a huge risk, because it is labour taxation that is most prone to fluctuations in the business cycle. So, at the moment of the crisis, the failure to tax work will be far greater than, for example, the loss of value added tax or excise taxes and, as a result, the budget can get into much bigger problems than it did in 2008, 2009 and in those subsequent crisis years. Another big problem is that, in practice, there is a budget, as we approve it, more or less a piece of paper. In the air, or let's say 130 billion are still available. unused expenditure from the past, which allows the government actually about these 130 billion. increase expenses. I know that it doesn't usually happen because something else is going to be postponed for another year, and this is how we roll this package of unrealized and delayed, interrupted projects ahead of us, but in practice it means that the budget doesn't really limit the management of resorts the way that Members or citizens think, but there is actually a huge freedom to handle that budget. In practice, more than 900 budget changes took place in the form of budgetary measures, some of them in the order of billions of crowns. Totally bizarre things are happening when a festival is financed from a chapter of state debt and various such strange movements. This budget is aimed at creating cotton wool, whether in the chapter of government debt management or in active unemployment policy. Those resorts know very well that there are items that, if something doesn't change significantly in the economy, will eventually serve to draw on some one-off spending that maybe someone already has prepared for the government, but they don't really brag about it here, and the budget will change very significantly in the form of budgetary measures. Then we have serious reservations about the practice where the budget envisages revenue from legislation not yet adopted, or even from legislation that has not even gone to the government yet. The budget is 16 billion. one-off income for the state to start withholding VAT from entrepreneurs 15 days longer. At the same time, the proposal hasn't even gone through the first reading, and I'm assuming there's going to be a huge battle for it. I think it is perhaps even worse than what the government is doing in the taxation of insurance reserves, and there is already a big battle today, and it strongly illustrates the ANO movement's efforts to actually vacuum all the remaining possible reserves for financing the state. Just as ČEZ's income has become a regular budget income, just as the government is about to tax the technical reserves of insurance companies, so this is another purely disposable income that is used to make the budget look at least a little good in the public eye, even though there is no economic crisis, even though we are still growing. Revenue is rising by more than 100 billion, and yet the government has the need for these reserves, which, even if we say to ourselves that this is a measure absolutely necessary and that it needs money urgently, let us do such things in a time of need the greatest. But the fact that, at a time of economic growth, the state is improving its own cash flow at the expense of the business sector is completely incomprehensible to me. It's just that he's going to hold off VAT for 45 days - it just doesn't seem completely reasonable to me. [[16.40 hours]] Two billion is supposed to be digital tax revenue that hasn't even gone to the government yet. The programme statement states that the tax environment is to be predictable and, at the same time, there is a budget presented in October, which counts on taxing a particular sector by 2 billion. CZK, while the tax has not yet been presented to the Chamber of Deputies. I don't know who thinks this is realistic. In my opinion, if everything goes smoothly from the government's point of view, the tax will be introduced from 1 January 2021. Perhaps even the most optimistic agree with this, and we're here to make 2 billion with it. to this budget, which we now approve. And the other thing is that the tax itself - we mentally support it, we encourage multinational giants in the digital area to pay taxes like everyone else, but setting the tax so that it is higher for some sectors than corporate tax, we do not find it reasonable. So I'm sure there's gonna be a big debate about the form of the tax. The government is counting 7.7 billion on the taxation of cigarettes. Crowns. In my opinion, this is a very optimistic expectation, because most of the first year after the increase in excise duty in the short term, there will be some blackout, so a lot of vendors will be frontloaded this year. So now the government's going to improve the results of this year's management, but next year, I certainly wouldn't be so optimistic. The obvious mistake is that the draft budget is still counting on 200 million. CZK from the taxation of domestic boiler rooms, where I hope there is also a coalition agreement, that it is not reasonable to increase people's heating and that it will fall out of the tax package. So much for the practice where things that are far from certain are counted as income, some are extremely controversial, and yet the government is vacuuming one-off incomes as much as possible. The last argument why I think that budget is a piece of paper is that we don't know how the government is really going to fill out the numbers and what is actually happening. Today we are squabbling about what capital spending will be, but in fact what will be written in the budget is marginal in relation to what will actually be realized. Now we can argue about changes in the order of billions, but if these projects are implemented, they're just going to make a difference in the order of tens of billions. As I mentioned in the 2018 final account debate, only two thirds of the capital expenditure was spent in 2018. So we're really worried that something like this is going to happen this year. Similarly, we fear that there are similar problems in investing in science and research. And then again, on paper, it looks good, there's a big increase planned, but we don't know if it's going to take place in practice. Even because the government has not prepared any reserves for the crisis and we are prepared for a crisis worse than in 2008, we will definitely support the return of this budget to recast. We support the deficit reduction and support the increase in capital expenditure. Most of all, we think they need investment in rail infrastructure. That's where we think the investment is being delayed unnecessarily. And our country needs it. Probably the biggest shame is that trains from Vienna to Berlin still travel through Nuremberg and are there significantly faster than if they were going through Prague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u112	I, too, thank you and please now for Mr Bauer's debate, Mr Dolejš will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u113	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020. I confess that I was looking for a suitable word or a shortcut, which I would simply and in summary name this draft budget without discussing the details and the individual figures. And I spontaneously remembered my favorite book - Milan Kundera forgives me - the unbearable lightness of being. And it is truly incredible, dear government, with what unbearable ease you are eating through the future of our country. It is alarming how easy you are to ride on a wave of unprecedented economic growth, and in my opinion, you clearly do not think about worse times, and you do not think about the back door at all. I am not surprised at the unbearable ease with which you are passing away the good economic times to solve our country's real problems. The largest is the ageing population, adverse demographic development and the long-term unsustainable pension system. I do not understand the ease with which the representatives of the coalition parties here tell us and all taxpayers that the state budget proposal with a 40-billion-dollar axe is a good budget at a time of extraordinary economic growth. That's been said a couple of times today. Or a very good budget, which was also said here. Or a balanced budget. I'm asking what economic nonsense this is. It's always been true that the privates pay for the coat of arms. That the country's wealth doesn't come from somewhere in the Ministry that it's not made by officials. And that's why I don't understand how easily you overlook a situation where average private sector wages are lower than in the state sector, in other words, that those who finance the state and its apparatus have, on average, lower wages than the coat of arms themselves. You see, I have had some really turbulent debates on flood budgets on this House of Deputies at a time when a small part of our country was significantly damaged by floods. And I have also had heated debates in this House of Honor over the state budget in a time of economic crisis. At a time when you remember that Lehman Brothers fell, and at a time when the logical income of the state, income of the regions and municipalities fell into today for most of you unimaginable numbers. That is why it is incredible to me with what unbearable ease this difficult time, as I have listened to it today, some politicians are talking. With which patent on reason and princely counsel he evaluates this difficult time without having any elementary knowledge of it. The government should do the opposite. She should learn from this past and difficult times and be able to predict. Without really wishing for our country, worse times will simply come to our country sooner or later. One last thing. If you look at Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which I try to devote more detail to, you will find that the expenditure of this chapter is approximately 686 billion. Crowns. It's an increase of almost 50 billion. compared to the previous year. In my opinion, however, there are two key figures. First, the proportion of this chapter, that is to say, Chapter 313 The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently less than 44 percent of the total state budget. And secondly, the second issue, the share of the dictatorial expenditures of this Chapter 313, is almost 94 percent. It's the only thing that's coming out of it. If there is no more significant change, this social colossus will soon not be possible to finance or pay. In conclusion, it is only that the good changes that will shift the helm of government policy towards the future, I think you, the honourable government, are not doing very well. You're not fixing our state, you're not developing, but in my opinion, you're just maintaining and indebting. You may have better marketing than other governments, but you rule badly, and the draft budget is proof of that. Among other things, for these reasons, I will certainly not support this draft state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u114	Thank you, too. And please Mr Dolejš for the debate, Mr Onderka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u115	Thank you for the floor. If you don't mind, a few comments on the ongoing discussion. Don't worry, it won't be framed by that, I didn't want to, I had to, because it's usually the longest performance. Although I think that the positions are quite divided in this House, that we all may know how this vote will turn out, I will not forgive myself three brief remarks, as I was attacked by listening to the debate, with the fact that - to the previous speaker, who accused the part of the spectrum that is about to vote for the budget, from some sort of selling the future - I was attacked by another Kunderian title, i.e. Joke. In a different context, of course, because there if some joke a la Long live Trockij! He was shredded by a fucking system, so I wouldn't want to be scrapped by screams Long live Milton Friedman! Or someone who believes that fewer states will save us. So let's just focus on the three things I'm going to try to do right now. I think it has been said quite repeatedly here that what we have on the table is a pragmatic compromise. How else? After all, this entire government has been created as a pragmatic compromise and therefore also presents budgets that are, of their kind, a pragmatic compromise. And basically, it can also be leaned on the position of key institutions, which we may not suspect from any exaggerated political aspects. For example, the fact that tripartite has discussed this budget in the spirit that it is not crashing on the one hand the competitiveness of our economy, on the other hand, somehow solves this social gap, i.e. a gap compared to the past, when we are catching up for our people what they deserved, because, of course, there should be something from economic growth. The second institution is the National Budget Board, which states, and I stress this repeatedly, in the short term - in the short term - that public finances are essentially, and the whole public sector in this sense is consolidated, and that if we are in some particular economic situation, when we are closing the production gap, when the economy is cooling, but still growing, and that we do not know what risks we will be collecting in the near future, then that slightly expansionary fiscal policy is basically falling into the mix of economic policy. I will add that monetary policy from this point of view is rather stabilizing, because the koruna is slow but hard and interest rates are higher than those offered by the European Central Bank, for example. So it's pragmatic, it's debatable, we're not going to sell the future by approving this move, but at the same time, let's face it, we're not going to solve the future. So the compromise is worth something, the compromise may actually open up for someone, complicates the door to the future for someone, but in any case, some things remain on the table. This is mainly because, or also because, if there is some consolidation going on here, not only in the public sector, but in general in the administration of the state, so that consolidation takes place with the wind in the sails. For the past five or six years, our economy has been growing, at some point even significantly above the European Union's average, or, of course, the room for manoeuvre for anyone sitting in government seats is much easier. And if we try to separate what is the work of a great helmsman and what is more due to the wind in the sails, the great helmsman does not, of course, give such added value. We could discuss per parts to what extent rationalization of the state operation is going well. I, in general, see as a big deposit in the fiscal area that, at the beginning of this development, the government could have accepted the work of previous governments and launched liquidity management, which certainly helped. What I consider untethered are, for example, personnel audits or the solution of an excess of all kinds of outsourcing, when we hire companies where we can save money by managing it effectively and concentratedly ourselves. But we could basically go on like this for a long time. Rather, the question is if the compromise is on the table so that we do not increase the price of the compromise unnecessarily. And don't be mad at me, that's a little bit of a political message from me to those who - now I don't think they'd be returning the budget today. I believe that it will not be returned, and that therefore we will not get into any time stress, so that in a few weeks we will discuss a budget that would not differ dramatically so much in its structure and rationality, and we would simply expose ourselves to the effects of the delayed negotiation. I mean, as a trenches war or trenches, where colleagues from the opposition have so far backed up, the tax package, which, of course, is one of the items that goes into the state budget on the revenue side, and I think that even though the package can undoubtedly be formed by a vote, it is rather unfortunate to have that trenches war here, because we would increase the price of this compromise by time. The last, third point points to the future. I said here what we have on the table won't solve the future. That we have too many unanswered questions left. But also, hand to heart, unanswered because we didn't approximate the nature of our opinions, it may not even be possible somewhere, but that we stayed somewhere with flags, banners, passwords, not a meritoric solution to the systemic nature of the problems. This government, although it has a compromise framework, should undoubtedly resolve some things, at least because it has promised them politically. Of the rest that have not yet been worked out and perhaps could help in the future, I would remind you of the control of water and raw materials. I would remind you that there was a promise here to deal with social services systemically, not by bickering every year. That there is still an open question - and it should certainly not be an opportunity for one or another minister to compete, but for all of us to make it a good one - and that is the solution to the available housing. And there are also promises for valorisation machines, whether it concerns minimum wage, regardless of the state insurance payments, which I think would be important, even if a partial systemizing contribution to what may remain after this government one beautiful day. The fact that some things cannot be solved now, because we are getting into some kind of pressure and the room for manoeuvre is decreasing, can be documented on one subject, and that is, and we all basically know that, and unfortunately, we have to accept that, that the issue of living and existential minima is not being addressed. That would be in an unfinished system, the quality of the system, so much money that we really couldn't bear it. But we still know we have to deal with this. So that's another argument that we should get back to the systemic and strategic debate after all. And what really will make up the future of this country is, for the most part, not even the squabbling that we have shown today, but that we will have to clarify what the safe energy mix of the Czech Republic should look like in order to modernize the Czech industry in the spirit of 4.0, but to maintain some competitiveness in the world at the same time. That we should solve the pension system when we know that it is sustainable so far, but there will be huge problems in the order of ten fifteen years. And so on and so forth. So there are enough topics, and even in terms of state budget structure, let's say, if for example. Mr. President came in this morning or this morning and mentioned the revenue area, so I think he just mentioned it. However, unfortunately, we did not exactly escalate this matter twice, among other things, because the budget revenue strategy is not subject to either a coalition agreement or a tolerance patent. And basically, political breakup takes place here. I think we should think about that and get back to the meritor questions. It is a fact that if our economy is growing by 2.2 percent, which is the so-called economy. a realistic outlook, yes, next year, so if our taxes go up by 6 percent, so also with a simple algebraic act, we get to the fact that we are likely to have a slightly higher tax quota, and here some have borne it. Well, the tax quota will, of course, increase slightly. I don't know where any of us feel that optimal tax quota. Let me just remind you that this is roughly the OECD average. True, the average temperature in the hospital doesn't always give the right information. There are large dispersions in the OECD. But if we look at the European Union and the more advanced states, then where is Austria, Germany, not France? So let's not dramatize the fact of the tax quota itself, but rather look at how the burden is burdened, who is loaded, whether it has negative social consequences and causes injustice. If it has an economically active effect, etc. [[17,00 hours]] That is why we must strategically, really strategically address issues such as environmental tax reform. I'm sorry, but I have to put a question of tax progression into this talon, because it's not just an invention of our party, it's just a topic that goes to Europe and I think needs to be resolved. And if it has been said here - the President has spoken about it, I think - the question of using the money that is in the area of tax relief, tax exemptions, but that is a legitimate subject. I noticed, the afternoon had already responded, I suspect, Mr. Páral z Euro, and then perhaps this inspired colleague Kalousek, who also wiped himself out here. But nobody here says they're gonna take 300 billion. and is essentially mechanically loaded to those economic operators. This is about the fact that the structure of the economic exceptions was created by some unmanaged lobbyist activity, that it could be optimised, and that even, I will remind you, many of you know, there is also a European project Common Corporate Tax Base, i.e. that joint consolidation of the common tax base for corporate taxes may offer some inspiration, and so if I read the information well from the Ministry of Finance, then there are some considerations on the subject of tax relief. So I wouldn't throw it away like something bad, like something absurd, but it's just part of the strategic tax relief package. As far as expenses are concerned, everyone here, or especially colleagues from the right, has hit the mandatory or quasi-mandatory expenses. To remind you that when it comes to mandatorial expenses, it is a relative number if we were based on a percentage, so, for example, in crisis years, the mandatorial expenditures accounted for over 60 percent of the budget. The fact that they're at 56 percent today is a relative change. Yes, mandatory spending is growing, as the government's budget is growing, as GDP is growing, as everything is growing. It is true that they even grew faster from year to year because they added to some of these expenditures, but what is very important is that I think that this percentage is quite comparable and somehow sustainable, what is behind the quality and efficiency of public services and those expenditures so far. And I think that we should channel our energy here if we really want to talk about the future, about the strategy, if we want to, say, prepare this pension reform so that, because of financial sustainability, it does not suffer social sustainability, so that we keep the health care available to citizens and the necessary social network. Of you, I think it was co-worker Klaus, or somebody from the right part of the political spectrum who said that the left liked to live out of strangers and that she'd figured out how many times. Don't be mad at me, but the taxes I collect aren't someone else's money to me. The taxes collected on the basis of a social contract are like a reflection of a common sense, which I do not see as common sense, and common sense tells us - let's forget about the state. I see this as a sort of sense of communis, a common view that has been incorporated into democratic law, and on the basis of this democratic law, we are financing the welfare state, which I consider to be a civilizational achievement, not a flaw in beauty. So this kind of reasoning, I think, should come to life, whether it can be handled completely pragmatically legislatively, or at least create some degree of future agreement. But let us focus on this because by approving today's budget at first reading, we will not give up the future or save it. But you need to think about her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u116	Thank you, too. Now I have factual remarks here, so please Mr Ferjenčík and then Mr Elfmark is signed in, but he is not in the hall, so we will see if he comes back or if this is a mistake. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Dolejš on the issue of the growth of the compound tax quota. The problem is, the compound tax quota is growing even if tax laws do not change, because the discount on the taxpayer and the ceilings on social insurance is designed so that when we have inflation and growth in real wages, the average taxation of average wages increases. And you're talking about progress, but KSČM refuses to support an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, which is precisely an example where progressive taxation is practically taking place. We actually came up with an ODS concept that makes it possible to reduce the taxation of work, which should also be fundamentally acceptable for left-wing parties, but you're just blocking it. Well, that makes it hard. But labour taxation is extreme in our country, and taxation of the cheapest job is completely disproportionate. And that, I mean, you who quite understand the economy must see, and unfortunately, from the perspective of your pragmatic coalition, you refuse to address this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u118	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Elfmark is not in the hall, so it was obviously a mistake. And now, please, Mr Dolejš will still respond with a point of fact. I apologize to Mr Onderk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u119	Don't worry, it'll just be a brief polite response. It is a subject, and let us say that if we do not want to talk about our own proposals about some sort of legislative guerilla and if we want tax proposals to be directed towards the strategic future of taxes, let us try to put some topics on the table and with a pencil in hand. [[as:]] Maybe I'm also a proponent of a super-gross wage canceling, but I'm a little freaked out by the idea that it would cost us another twenty billion from the state budget. Or even 30 - I'm being told here from the ministerial desks. So that's why I think conceptual proposals should be prepared in a wider circle with a pencil in hand, and we can undoubtedly meet somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u120	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, Mr Onderka, for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u121	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would recommend not with a pencil, but with a calculator. This is for Mr Dolejš through the President. Otherwise, I understand there's a contest about who knows the works of Milan Kundera, my native and friend better. And so I would also recommend one, it's from 1965 when I was born, and it's called Monology. It's a collection of poems, I suggest you read. The title describes what is happening in the Chamber of Deputies. We have a clearly divided coalition, opposition, party that supports the government coalition, and each of us is doing a monologue, and even according to the participation in the hall, it is clear that everyone already knows in advance how to vote. Many thoughts are falling. I will only mention two, one political, one technical that has been said. One political one that concerns how the left works, how the right works. This is so-called handing out of strangers, as has already been done here by Mr Dolejš through Mr President. Here I want to point out that it's just not that they're just phrases and some headlines for journalists. The left simply redistributes, if it has the option, the taxes, that is, the funds of any budget, whether at state, county, or village level, that is, to municipalities, in a way that tries to help the poorest, the real ones, those who have some disability. Just the weakest. But not only to them, but to them, he emphasizes. That's what you need to realize, and that's the difference between the left and the right from your point of view when you say that the left is throwing away. Then the tech, about the mandatorial expenses. Yeah, well, we don't have to have such large mandatory expenses, then we don't raise seniors' pensions, but at that point, we're in a position to live 20 years back. Compared to the West, we're going to fall 40, 50 years ago. [[17.10 hours]] It should be noted that the average pension in the Czech Republic is some 13,300. By increasing it, we're getting over the amount of some 14,000. Let's all try to see how we live in 10 grand. A month in the Czech Republic, and then we may understand that mandatorial expenses are not such a simple matter. And even in the future, they will not decline rapidly. I understand, through the President, a colleague of the Pirates, Ferjenčík, who says that we should correct and stop this growth. I agree with him there. And this is indeed, as Mr Dolejš, through Mr President, said, on a broad discussion of all political subjects and to discuss these matters. The budget. In my opinion, the budget compared to last year's and this year's budget is really pro-investment. It's just that there's more of these investments than in past budgets, and it's clearly visible to grow there. That each of us imagines that we should invest more, no doubt we should. However, I cannot imagine much today, which means today I think today that Minister Schillerová would put another 30, 40 billion into the investment budget. I would be very interested in which employees who craftsmen in the Czech Republic would make these investments. So we would move half of Bulgaria, half of Romania here, when we have unemployment of about 2 to 3 percent, which moves us on the fact that they are already people who are either unemployed for some reason or do not want to be employed. So I'm asking you how we'd handle these investments. I can vividly imagine how happy the Minister will be when at the end of next year he has another 10 billion in the budget unused, and even from investments, because it will not be able to invest. Anyone who's done a bit of community policy or invested in investment knows that it's not just the politicians, but that it's also on the technicalities of things where companies appeal to you, you're gonna get a territorial decision and so on and so on, and so on, that means we're gonna get ready for not even investing as usual the amount that's in the budget. The government invests in people, whether in seniors or by raising wages in the private sector, which is subsequently reflected there. And that's right. If I should accept the rhetoric that in the period when the economy in the Czech Republic is succeeding, we should save money, prepare for the crisis, that is, not to raise pensions, not to raise wages for civil servants and so on, and so on, and then, when the crisis is, we need to reduce and draw the funds we have spent, so it would happen that we will still have an average wage for pensioners in the Czech Republic of 10 000. For God's sake, when else do we raise these funds to them than when the economy thrives? I am convinced, and the whole social democracy, that when the Czech Republic is doing well, citizens in the Czech Republic must do well, and not just the chosen ones, not just the rich. The first version in June was rejected by the Ministers for Social Democracy because the proposal of the Ministry of Finance did not allow the government programme and priorities of the ČSSD for our voters. Here I would like to thank the Minister for the helpfulness that we could communicate at the level of the Committee on Budgets and at the level of the various ministries. And here we have to say that the budget didn't count on money for social services, fear of drought, cars for cops, or investments for firefighters. Compromise is a very difficult thing, but not one partner must feel like a winner in a compromise. And I think that YES doesn't feel like a winner, social democracy doesn't feel like a winner because we've made a compromise, and that means the compromise is right. This is important because, with the right compromise, the winners are not individual political parties, but the winner is the Czech Republic and the citizens of the Czech Republic. I consider this essential in any coalition. From the required 20 billion. CZK 15 billion has been defended by social democracy. - an increase in tariff salaries of 1,500 for police officers, firefighters, social workers, food quality inspectors, ushers and other civil servants, the abolition of the lowest tariff table, which is the most, will help people with the lowest salaries. As each minister negotiated, I will not read the whole, but only a few sections. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - increasing old-age pensions by an average of 900, here I am very pleased that the average pension will increase to CZK 14,326, we are one step away from finally fulfilling the promise that the seniors in the Czech Republic will have an average pension of CZK 15,000. Increase in parental allowance by 80 thousand. for families with children under four years of age, on condition that the parent has not yet completed. Increasing the salaries of civil servants by CZK 1,500 and the cancellation of the first level of the worst-paid table mainly for employees in culture, selected staff and social services. In addition, as far as other matters are concerned, 5.9 billion. and 800 miles. to transform IT already this year and 1.3 billion. promised to finance, such as cybersecurity, social services and so on. In the area of child care, prevention of family breakup or foster care, we got everything we asked for. Social services have room for wage growth, and if tripartite agrees on a higher amount, I am convinced that there will be funding to finance this amount. It was easier at the Ministry of the Interior, but more difficult financially, because in 2020, the budget is 80 billion. It's nearly four billion taller. more than the original design. Money for firefighters and police - almost 1 billion. CZK for firefighters and police officers still this year for technical equipment including already mentioned cars, next year 400 mil. for reconstruction of police and fire stations, 100 miles. for high-rise equipment for firefighters, 500 miles. the replacement of the fleet of security forces. For agriculture 1 billion. In addition to the fight against barking or drought. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the new representative office of our Czech Republic in Singapore, which will support Czech companies in expanding to Asian markets, fighting illegal migration, money for foreign development cooperation or helping people in places where another refugee wave could come from. The Ministry of Culture - it was the biggest challenge since the Minister of Culture Zaorálek started de facto at the moment when the budget was ready. Nevertheless, they will improve, for example, ushers in theatres, librarians and other employees in culture by an average of more than CZK 2,200. And we have a promise from the Minister that he will deal with this alone in terms of living art. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that even though a compromise has been made and social democracy has committed itself and here it undertakes to support the budget, to vote for it, we will nevertheless read through and clearly define the possible support for any amendments in the Chamber of Deputies, with the fact that social democracy will certainly propose some amendments. I want to make an update that I personally already have a proposal to increase the amount of social services, that is to say, financing within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I will still want to communicate with the Minister of Finance on the financial amounts at the Ministry of Culture, which I consider to be unfunded and in a large decline. As I have already mentioned, the budget of the Czech Republic is a big compromise. I would like our performances at this microphone not only to be monologues, but to be able to communicate far, far earlier before the budget is drawn up always for a calendar year and that this law be discussed with dignity and so that we can catch it by the end of this year so that there is no provisionality in the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u122	Thank you, too. And now, please, with Mr Žáček's factual comment, Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u123	Thank you for the floor. To show that even the opposition can be cultural and speed up the presentation of works by Milan Kundera, I would also like to mention the work of Ridiculous Love - I would characterize that the relationship between the coalition and the KSČM. A book of laughter and oblivion - I think it is in the current budget. Unfortunately, as the impact of the budget, valčík will come to say goodbye, and then I fear that it will be the last work - Life is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u124	Thank you. And Mr Munzar, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Dear Government, I too dare say a few words on the draft budget that we are discussing today. I am impressed by the words of an honourable colleague, who is not here now, Mr Votava, through Mr President, who said that this is, when I paraphrase it, about the social democratic budget and takes into account the priorities of social democracy, which was confirmed by Mr Onderka a moment ago. When reading the state budget, I even remembered one quote by Antonín Švehla, who said that the Social Democrats like to distribute pies that they didn't cook themselves and couldn't bake because they ate dough that wasn't enough yet. Yes, that's how the state budget reminded me of this quote. But it's not just a social democracy budget. It is a joint budget of the government YES, ČSSD and KSČM. And unfortunately, in managing the state budget and managing state finances, the government is de facto living on its substance and, in my view, has long since resigned from substantial changes that would lead to an increase in the long-term stability of state finances. Although economic growth has led to a rise in state budget revenues, this time, the government is counting less than 100 billion year on year. Unfortunately, this is not enough for the government, and again and again it is presenting a deficit budget. The Minister here spoke of the fact that the share of government debt in gross domestic product is falling slowly. But it is not because we are presented with a sound budget that has the ambition to reduce government debt. This is because, despite government steps, economic growth is growing, so this indicator is improving because of economic growth, and the government is dragging it down by submitting a deficit budget. And it's not that the government is contributing to the payment of the government's debt. Although revenue is rising to the government, while planning a deficit budget again, the government is looking for additional revenue through the tax package and has built the budget on standards that have not yet been adopted. Within these standards, for example, the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies is also envisaged, which is actually a one-off income to the state budget, which the government wants to dissolve in the state's current expenditure. What could be considered positive at first glance is that capital expenditure is expected to increase by about 20 percent compared to 2019, by 24 billion. CZK 146,7 billion. Even so, their share of total spending in the next year will not exceed 10 percent, i.e. above the level that they achieved at the time of the recession. That is, when Mr Onderka, through Mr President, spoke here about the pro-growth budget and the pro-growth investment, he should be aware that he does not reach the state budget for next year in the proposal or as much investment as was in the share at the time of the recession x years ago. And this still small amount of capital expenditure limits investment, for example, in road or rail infrastructure, which should also be a priority at the time of growth in order to lay stable foundations for future economic development. And, as Mr Onderka said here, we will see how the government will manage to draw investment less than ten years ago. As the budget increases, the government keeps increasing pressure only on the revenue side of the budget. So it is no wonder that the tax quota is constantly increasing. It means nothing more than that an ever greater percentage of our gross domestic product is increasingly distributed through public finances. As Mr Onderka said here, the left likes to redistribute, very happy, and thus fits into the role that she likes to make decisions about foreign money. I was surprised by my colleague Dolejš that he does not consider the collected tax money to be a stranger. And I think that's the problem that the left doesn't see these funds as money that has to be taken from taxpayers first, and it doesn't really flow from someone else's blood to them. We are rapidly growing personnel service of state functions. Between 2014 and 2020, in order not to compare only annual growth, this is an increase of around 58 thousand. civil servants, when comparing the reality of 2014 and the assumption of 2020. Yes, we need some civil servants - in school, firefighters, police, etc. But unfortunately, the number of civil servants in bureaucracy and the central bodies of the state administration and their departmental organizations is also growing. The amount of salaries has increased by more than an incredible 86 billion over that period. And this is not a one-time development. With this growth, the government will burden every additional budget and it will have to pay the taxpayer in the future. Like I said, the government lives by nature. Unfortunately, it has not taken advantage of the favourable economic growth situation, nor is it intended to do so, and the increasing revenue of the state budget for some countercyclical reforms. On the contrary, state finances are even worse prepared for a potential recession and a cooling economy than in a time of economic crisis. Unfortunately, this is a bad business card for managing state finances. Instead of using economic growth to stabilise state finances, the structural changes we need, and the preparation for future economic stagnation, or recession, or population ageing, the state is still living beyond its potential. And unfortunately, one day, the taxpayer will pay much more. These are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, why I will not support this draft state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u126	Thank you, too. Mr Skopeček, please, for the debate. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u127	Thank you very much. I've also heard the works of my favorite writer Milan Kundera. I don't know if anyone mentioned his best novel to me. This is, in my opinion, the most appropriate work, virtually. its designation, which could be named as a draft state budget or some of the speeches of Members defending it. But if it's been said, I'm sorry for repeating it. I would probably start with the President's speech, which came this morning to support the state budget every year. I think that's what I'm talking about. I would call his support for the state budget politically, not economically. What makes me say that? I am led by the statement made by President Zeman, who has done so in the past when he has pescoed, for example, the Social Democrat Bohuslav Sobotka. Everyone remembers how he blamed him for Bohuslav Sobotka's implementation of deficit budgets at a time of economic growth. As the Keynesian, whom Mr President calls himself, he explained to Mr Bohuslav Sobotka that deficits can be implemented at a time of recession, when they are to help the economy, when they are to complement aggregate demand and move it so that the economy will succeed again, but not at a time of growth when it rejects deficits. And in the past, your own party, virtually. The representatives of their former social democracy parties pescoval for approving and preparing deficit budgets at a time of growth. A few years have passed, economic times are just as good, the economy is still growing at a decent pace. We still have the lowest unemployment compared to Bohuslav Sobotka's peak policy. And Mr. President Zeman suddenly doesn't mind deficit budgets. Not only does he not patronize the current government, the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister, but he even disproportionately praises her for that. I don't know where the Keynesian economist's transition to a theory or an economic school I don't know yet, because I don't know an economic direction that would recommend implementing deficits and indebting at a time of economic growth. However, this change of the President is interesting. But he himself says that only a jerk doesn't change his mind, so maybe it's this case. [[17.30 hours]] I would rather see it as a demonstration of the President's very close political connection with the current government and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Then I understand, and so do his speech today in the Chamber of Deputies. The President simply forgot his economic theory, forgot his education, forgot his earlier statements and the instruction of the Social Democrats that, at a time of growth, he managed to be balanced or surplus, and simply praised his closest political ally, or fell under the spell of the Minister of Finance, as he also suggested in the media. Of course, I think that budget is wrong. I consider him bad for many reasons. It's not just because of a deficit that I don't think really should exist. It should be recalled that the government will have a total of 113 billion for its redistribution over this year - and it has already been said here several times - next year. extra crowns. 113 billion. Moreover, the year-on-year increase in the revenue of the state budget, and yet Minister Schillerová and the entire government are not able to do so from these 113 billions. CZK save even a penny and prepare a budget, which would be even one crown lower than the deficit proposal for this year. The number will be even more impressed if we look at the longer time series until the ANO movement took over the finance department in 2014. So compared to 2014, the government has over 300 billion to redistribute. extra crowns. They got 300 billion. Moreover, thanks to economic growth, and yet, even after years of economic growth and at a time of record low unemployment, they are unable to prepare a balanced budget. Like I said, I don't mind just the deficit, but I mind very much, or I'm criticizing and I'm afraid of the structure of the state budget, virtually. where he's moving. As a right-wing politician, as a liberal economist, it bothers me, of course, that the rate of redistribution is growing very rapidly in the Czech Republic, which means, in other words, that the more we take money from the private sector, the more that the private sector remains, and I am actually convinced that the private sector, unlike the government, can do better with its money, that it knows better how its own money, which it has done with its own activity, its diligence, its art, has built up, produced that it can make decisions about them much better than the decision made by the Minister or individual officials. And that's because in deciding how the money he himself had to make, for example, he had to go through. The risk entrepreneur will be very careful if he uses the money effectively, for what he uses it and in what amount. If we look at a very short time series, I would like to remind my colleagues that in 2015 the spending side of the budget was about 1.3 bill. CZK, in 2018, it was already 1.4 beat. CZK 100 billion. CZK more, and in 2020 is expected to be 1.6 bill. koruna, i.e. more than 200 billion. increase. If anybody finds these numbers small, if it doesn't stop anyone from being the swelling state, the hack, constantly covering up bigger and bigger fat, which will make the old state sector stop moving in a little while, and by sucking energy from the private sector, they're gonna stop the whole country, so I'm asking you to look at these numbers and tell you if they're really impressing you and if you don't see the risk that, while in 2015, we had a 1.3-billing cost. CZK, by 2020, it will be 1.6 beat. Crowns. It bothers me very much. I don't think the state should be so big that it should be much smaller. I could also admit that this increase occurred at the cost of improving the quality of life in the Czech Republic, that the public sector - the state provides dramatically better public services to its taxpayers, from whom the extra money is taken. And I really don't feel that if we ask the businessman how the financial administration communicates with him, if we ask the patients if the waiting time in the hospitals is getting shorter, if we ask ordinary citizens who are going to deal with anything at the office, if they have improved the quality of what they get at city halls and other state offices, if they actually accept such an increase in state redistribution, I'm sure the answer is that it doesn't, that the state doesn't provide any dramatically better services or public goods. There's still a line on the D1 motorway, the roads don't stop, the speed trains that Andrej Babiš promised many years ago aren't, either, and the quality of the state service, for example, when we look at the Financial Administration, we see rather unfairly laid-back hedging orders and things like that. As the state swells and the cost of the state budget increases, it is, of course, linked to the fact that the state must necessarily impose a greater tax burden on its fellow citizens and on its companies. It's been said here a couple of times. Thanks to this government, which has focused only on the revenue side of the state budget, the budget's spending side has been swelled without any attention, so because it has focused on the revenue side of the budget and collects and collects more and more money, so the combined tax quota is historically record-breaking - and it has already been mentioned here, it will rise to 36 percent next year. And that is when we have not only the highest tax burden, but also when our tax system is based on a number of international comparisons, e.g. According to the World Bank and its analysis by Doing Business, one of the most complicated, complex, exceptions to flooded tax systems, which means much greater costs for the taxpayer and the fulfilment of his tax obligations both in time and in financial terms than used citizens in countries where the compound tax quota may be similarly large, but they receive much better service. Another problem that I see in the state budget structure is the development of mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures. There's been a lot of people talking about it. I will remind you that the higher the quasi-mandatory and mandatorial spending, the smaller the room of manoeuvre the government has, whether this or any future, for its active fiscal policy, e.g. Because he thinks the priority is the speed train he's gonna build. He won't build it because he won't, virtually. the money that will be spent in the budget will have to be spent on the so-called Mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses. The unfortunate trend in mandatorial spending continues. I'll tell you one number. Next year, according to the draft state budget, mandatory spending is expected to increase by more than 7 percent. More than 7 percent are expected to increase the mandatorial expenditures. Do you know how much the forecast for the growth of the Czech economy is? Well, that's significantly less than the 7 percent. We can talk for an hour more about how these predictions will correspond to reality, because we don't know many things, we don't know how Brexit and trade wars are going to end, we don't know what the slowing economy of Germany will do with our industry and, in turn, with our economic growth. But I'll bet you one. The Czech economy will certainly not grow by 7 % next year, it will be significantly lower, it will be below 3%, I think it will still be below 2%, it will be lower in order than the government expects to increase the mandatorial spending. [[17.40 hours]] And if mandatorial spending is growing at this rate at a time when we have record low unemployment within the EU and when we still have decent economic growth, at least from some long-term average, then imagine how the mandatorial spending will grow, by what percentage, how much you will add to the 7 percent next year, when the economy will fall, when unemployment will rise, when the government will have to spend more money on unemployment benefits, when more people, as they get into a worse social situation, will claim additional benefits, how much more mandatorial spending from year to year will increase when the recession comes. What's worse, they're not just going to grow mandatorial spending, but they're going to go down fairly hard because of the economic stagnation or the economic recession that I'm not calling for, and let's all hope it doesn't happen, but if it does, then taxes are going down. So, on the one hand, there's going to be a huge increase in mandatorial spending, and on the other hand, on that side of income, the government is going to be raising less money to the state budget than it is in good times today. If you think there's a responsible farmer acting like that, that he's leaving the train for mandatorial expenses running and increasing speed, and he's not counting on the fact that there might be any wall that the train hits, I'm very worried about this trend. Of course, and I want to be fair, it is not only the Minister or the Prime Minister's fault that I should not only hit the representatives of the YES movement, after all, the budget is the collective work of the entire government. To a large extent, in my view, the inability of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who was also responsible for the Prime Minister's task to come up with a revision of the dosage system, was responsible for preparing pension reform. Although the Commission on Pensions is meeting, I do not think that we can expect from it any realistic proposal for pension reform, which this House could still discuss and approve. As far as the revision of the dosage system is concerned, so far there is zero in the world. So, to be fair, it is not only criticism of Minister Schillerová and Prime Minister, but a great deal of responsibility for our public finances becoming more vulnerable to the financial and economic crisis, the social democrats have a major share in this increasing risk. Of course, the citizens' democrats will not support this budget, at least not in the form in which it was proposed. As in recent years, we are prepared to submit a number of amendments, so that we can show, and we will propose to move individual expenditure items to the state budget reserve. There is no doubt that they will be subsidies for business. When you look at how much the budget is counting on when it comes to subsidies to private business entities, it is planned to be nearly 50 billion for 2020. Crowns. As the President has already mentioned, part of it, virtually. 27 billion. The koruna goes to the so-called koruna. renewable energy sources, but up to that amount of less than 50 billion. The koruna is still a large part of the cotton can be reduced in our opinion. We do not think that the state should first let some entrepreneurs work, take risks, make a profit, tax it, collect the money into the state budget, and then support it in the form of subsidies to another entrepreneur. We think it's distorting the market, and it's unfair that those who don't have the best business plans win, but those who have a good subsidy agency or can better fill out a grant application. So, no doubt, that's one of the things we're gonna want to save. We will also want to save in the chapter of active unemployment policy, because I think, and the absurdity of this law shows that, at a time when unemployment has really fallen to record levels, there is an increase in expenditure on active unemployment policy in the next year's budget plan. Almost seems to mind the government's low unemployment and spends more money on it at a time when it is decreasing than at a time when unemployment is higher. But the government should at least admit it, because it's rather ridiculous that way, or it's drawing up how badly the state budget is constructed. Of course, there are many sources where money can be raised and where we will propose amendments. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, those famous subsidies or the discounting of a fare that costs more than 5 billion a year. Only for such stupidity, which is used by people who, in my opinion, have enough money to buy their own ticket and do not have to be subsidized by taxpayers who will never take the train at all. I'm not going to talk about the fact that it doesn't distinguish whether it's going in the morning or in the evening, whether it's going at some time when it's peaking, whether it's on a track that's really very loaded, or, on the other hand, it's on a more rural track. I think that's another source of where we can save money, and we'll show you, along with other suggestions, that we can save the entire 40 billion. Crowns. When I started talking about how the state swells and how the hanky picks up more and more pounds of fat and becomes, in fact, unmanageable, passive, inactive, and rather complicates life and causes death to the private sector, they find it hard to imagine it when they throw billions. But further proof of how the government wants to do well with taxpayers' money is also the expected increase in the number of employees paid from public sources. Madam Secretary has done several times, or x-times, a media exhibition of how she wants to save, how she wants to reduce the number of civil servants. Well, that's media fog. In the media, the Minister wants to reduce the number of civil servants, but according to the draft state budget, the number of people who will be paid from public sources, i.e. from taxpayers' money who pay taxes, is 5,000. Five thousand more people, which is already the size of one smaller city, will work extra for the state next year. And if we compare it to 2013, before the ANO movement got the finance department, then we find that the number of employees who started working for the state is greater than 50,000, namely 50 479. From 2013 to 2020, the number of civil servants will increase by more than 50,000 people. This, I think, may be a more illustrative example of how the state swells, how it grows, how inefficient it is and how it dampens the private sector when it decides to increase the number of civil servants by 50 thousand at a time of economic growth and low unemployment. People. For all these reasons, I consider the proposal from the workshop of the Minister to be a failed work, virtually. I consider this proposal to be a budgetary scumbag, because if it were not to be a budget scumbag, it would not be true that we are still going to propose a deficit in tens of billions, it would not mean that we are going to deteriorate the structure of the mandatorial spending of their ever greater share, it would not be true that the investment activity, which this government boasts, would be below the level at which it was invested during the economic crisis when the right-wing government ruled and, in particular, the Social Democrats criticised it for undermining economic growth with its small expenditures. Even then, we were able to invest relatively more than this government can. Because of the high taxes, because of the still swelling expenses, because of the small investments, because of the rising mandatorial expenditures, I really consider the budget not a piece of paper, as my colleague Ferjenčík said, that would be very nice if it were just a piece of paper and the country didn't follow it, but I really consider it a budget scumbag. [[17.50 hours]] Madam Secretary surfs on a wave of economic growth. This economic growth allows her to behave this way, allowing her to prepare such budget scumbags, but I would be very worried about when the wave comes, when we hit the shallows, when we hit the shore, so I'm just warning her that we don't drown on the shallows because of the mismanagement of the Minister. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u128	Good evening, dear colleagues. The Vice-President of Okamura will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you about the chapter of the budget, it is the budget of the Ministry of Justice - and I hope the Minister will answer me - where only last year by the end of September was paid as compensation to citizens of state money for being charged with prosecutors, but they were set free, that is, it was the fault of the state, 151 million. The crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown, the crown. the amount is growing, and I wonder how much is allocated to this for next year. Because the government is doing absolutely nothing in this regard. We propose that prosecutors have material responsibility for their decisions and a time-limited mandate. But it seems to me that some politicians here are following the opposite trend, so that the prosecutors are not responsible. And I have a graph here, a proportion of the citizen's release from the jurisdictional individuals in the courts. [[shows]] That is, when citizens were actually charged with state machinery by the District Attorney's office, they were released in a court of law in 4.12% of the cases. But the number is growing dramatically at higher levels. When it was the District Attorney's office, 12,96 percent of the defendants were innocent, so they were set free by the court. And in the case of the Attorney General - and that is crazy, I don't know if you knew - even 28,87 percent of the defendants were freed by the court. Or, in the case of prosecution by the Attorney General, a third of the people were driven by state machinery to court wrongly, unjustly, destroyed their lives, yes, that's a graph official. [[shows]] Yes, Mrs. Ex-Mistress Válková is watching. And I ask, what does the government do? So she allocates in the budget the compensation money that is now in hundreds of millions of crowns, at the expense of the elderly needed, at the expense of disabled pensioners, at the expense of working families with children. You're going to increase your dosage to an unadaptable level. And I'm asking specifically about this section of the state budget. I only know about Mrs Valachová's proposal, for example, from the Constitutional Commission through Mr President, which wants to give the prosecutors even more independence. But where is that... It's going to get worse, obviously, that's why. 'Cause today's the day that the situation's miserable. Again, those who are accused and brought to trial by the Attorney General's Attorney General, 28,87 percent of the people are then liberated. Crazy. Destroyed lives. Without a single responsibility. It could happen to any one of you. That means, I'm asking about this chapter, and I'm wondering, because we can't trace it, it's probably hidden... So this year it's 151 miles by the end of September. It's clean. So I'm wondering how much is allocated to this and what the government is going to do with this, that this item could be... that should be reduced. For the responsible government, this item should be reduced. That means the state should ensure that these judicial errors, basically, can be said, basically a miscarriage of justice, so that it doesn't happen, and she increases the amount. That's why I'm asking you this here in connection with the state budget negotiations. Because that's a very bad attitude. Once again, the SPD movement has clear views on this, so we will in no way support the greater irresponsibleness of the prosecutors, but we will only support the proposals that will lead to greater direct responsibility. There. And I have another question. What the government is actually doing - because we all know I've already talked about it in another part of my speech, that the benefits are increasing inadaptable. These are the workers, but who do not work and suck long-term, parasite on the state budget. And I'm asking what the government is going to do with this item so that it doesn't grow, on the contrary, so that it is going to drop significantly. Because this is the item that we call SPD to her, we'd like to stop this type of dose immediately, or it's addressed to her. For example, evidence of a work history or a clean criminal record, namely, who has children, who have children, fills school attendance. It's not like they have unforgivable clocks. And here I have drawn out how the government - in an incredible way - and the current governments have set up and tolerated that monstrous system of payment of benefits inadaptable, and I ask: What will you do with this item in the state budget to make it fall, and not while it rises under your government, the Yes movement, with the support of KSČM and ČSSD. Firstly, the problem is structural and institutional fragmentation in the area of the provision of social support and social assistance benefits. The Czech Social Security Administration and its regional branches are participating here. This concerns insurance benefits. The Labour Office and its territorial workplace. This concerns non-insurable benefits. And the social unions of cities and municipalities. There is no interconnected information sharing system. There is a two-to-three-track process of administrative procedure. By the way, everything is even more difficult with the introduction of GDPR. This means that those who abuse doses can combine all systems. This means that they give false information, misuse of funds, etc. And it is difficult to detect and there are no effective control mechanisms. Those are all the practical suggestions I'm gonna read here. The big problem with benefits is the housing allowance and surcharge, which caused a change in the Civil Code, where the consent of the owner of the property is no longer necessary to establish a permanent residence. There is no effective system of control and sanctions for applicants for benefits who cheat and do not grant additional income. Especially work black, not to mention income from crime. Here should be a clear penalty for life loss of entitlement to benefits from the State, respectively. massive fines. The state doesn't do anything. You tolerate it. The government of the ANO movement, the CSSD with the support of the KSČM, tolerates this monstrous system. Two. Similarly, incapacity for work for long-term unemployed benefit recipients is abused. There is a complete lack of control of compliance with the non-workable regime. And sanctions. This, according to the SPD proposal, should be a loss of entitlement to all social benefits either for life or for a long time. Another problem the government doesn't solve, and you're just showing off a deficit budget with a deficit of 40 billion. koruna, it only indebts the country and you don't solve the causes of the problems at all, so that we keep the money in that budget and not pay it to unnecessary people, virtually. people who do not need it, so the third reason, the problem is a sharp decline too, and the depreciation of the prices of the real estate of ordinary citizens in places where they are inadaptable, and in the surrounding area. Often up to two thirds in the last ten years. They're creating a ghetto. This means business with poverty, crime growth, drug expansion, especially between youth and children. And the government isn't doing anything about it! I thought the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had already, I guess, six years or so. So there was a short pause when the representative of the YES movement, Madame Němcová, had it. But it's basically still under the thumb of the CSSD. Another problem that is unadaptable about doses is that it would be good to introduce conditions of active job search with a clear deadline, respectively. the pursuit of employment for most types of State aid and aid benefits. This means conditional upon the taking of any benefit just by having proper care for these children. This also applies to foster care benefits and so on, including control. Of course, the primary is regular schooling. I've already talked about this. [[18.00 hours]] Another problem that the government has left loose and merely spews decent and proper citizens about taxes - and, as I said in my other speech, the tax quota has increased sharply during the ANO movement's reign since 2016, spewing on the bones of decent and working people and moving money to those who parasite - is, in our view, also a legislative need to prevent abuse of foster care benefits within the wider family, because especially in the Roma community, there is an extended mechanism whereby children take care of their grandparents and other relatives and draw support from the state, even though their legal maintenance obligations to children exist. That is, it is necessary to ban speculative fostering within the family among relatives. Another problem that you completely give a shit about, and it would also help, or another means that needs to be corrected, that it is proven on the basis of examples from the practice of abuse of a recently significantly increased contribution to care for so-called dependents. This benefit is primarily intended for the care of these people if they are not in institutional care but in the family, and in practice many families take it as their next income and do not use it to care for an dependent person who suffers and suffers from it. This means that we propose making payment of this benefit conditional, for example, on the family proving that, for example, at least 50 per cent of this amount was used to purchase some social service, nursing, social or medical. Another thing that would need to be changed - and the SPD has a comprehensive solution in this area, and I have already said it publicly, but you just don't give a shit - is the abuse of social benefits in the form of vouchers to buy food. They are being dealt with, legislative amendment is needed, but of course we will not see that from the government. You'd better take down those tax people, and you'd better leave it the way it is. And, of course, frustrated citizens then complain to us, at least our SPD voters. They're really frustrated because we have decent working people who work hard, take care of families, and they really don't like this, the system you set up here. Further - there is no effective mechanism to prevent, virtually. at least subsequently caused damage to fraud in the drawing of high financial amounts in the form of car benefits or an adjustment of the apartment for disabled people, because in practice it is a problem, it is once again used by the very inadaptable, we have nothing against decent people because there is no sharing of information about debts towards the state. Of course, such persons should not be entitled to benefits of any type. A big problem, and here I am with another budget chapter, respectively. for other budget appropriations in the budget proposed by you, the presence of non-profit organisations in the social sector in the regions is because, on the one hand, they overwhelm qualified civil servants because they offer about 4,000 on average. CZK higher salaries, which is really incredible that workers in social unions have an average of 4,000. CZK lower salaries than those of those nonprofits, while all are paid from the state and from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but above all instead of these nonprofits, which are generously paid by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so instead of acting as advisory centres for the applicants for benefits, they do not exercise prevention, control, right of drawing, etc., they do not defend public interests and public funds, by which I mean expenditure, but rather act as advisory centres and encourage the inadaptable ones to squeeze the state to the maximum. And that's the state you set here as the government of the YES, CSSD and KSČM movement. Well, in the past period, KDU-ČSL, of course, has persisted for a long time, but you tolerate it and agree with it. Another problem is, and this will be the topic here in the House, so I will also mention this briefly, because here we will have a Mrs. Ombudswoman, who will present her report, of course we do not agree with the action of the Ombudsman, but we all remember that it was the votes of Members YES, ČSSD, KDU-ČSL. I remember this very well in the last parliamentary term. It was a secret choice, but it was clearly stated here, and we all know it. That is what social workers are complaining in practice that the Ombudsman's office is harshly bullying social unions in cities, precisely in cities that have problems with excluded localities, that is to say, unadaptable. So the Ombudsman's office in the vast majority of cases and the appeal is right to the complainants, that is, the inadaptable ones, and it grants them benefits, even if the social unions of the Magistrates have fully documented why not grant benefits. That means standing here again, you have the system set up so that the inadaptable and the various nonprofits squeeze money out of the state instead of being on the side of decent and proper people. Once again, you are proposing a budget of 40 billion. deficit. And the deficit didn't have to be there at all. He didn't have to be there at all if you ruled right and basically didn't just abuse the workers and the proper citizens to milk all possible money out of them. The last thing I would probably suggest, and it is a problem, and we as SPD would like to implement it, is that since January 2012 all non-insurable social benefits plus employment support and rehabilitation support have been paid in one place at the employment office, which has recently taken over from the municipalities the payment of benefits in material distress, the allowance for care and benefits to people with disabilities, but this is the place of payment significantly separated from the control and field practice, when the social unions of municipalities had and also have detailed information on the situation of the applicants for benefits, respectively. beneficiaries of benefits were able to make a qualified decision not to grant or withdraw a specific benefit or to impose sanctions. So I've listed here as the SPD that you can see that we have the problems, we have the issues processed specifically. The government literally doesn't do anything. Finally, I would like to thank our Member, Lucia Šafránková, who is processing the material internally in the SPD, and we are also preparing our own amendment to the law in this respect, because the government's inaction, when you literally persect decent working people and favor the inadaptable ones, and then here you are presenting this incredible budget, which is deficit, so we really cannot look at it anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u130	Thank you. We are in a general debate. Mrs Šafránková will appear, Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u131	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, too, to comment briefly on the State Budget Act for the SPD. Today rather in general, focusing on its specific features and contexts. I will then say a more detailed and more specific view in the framework of the submission of the amendments and the debate on them. In the context of the debates on the overall setting and design of the draft budget, for example, I was impressed at first glance by an indication of the state's quite significantly worse management condition than last year, namely on 30 September, its deficit was 21 billion. The crown, which is 37.8 billion year on year. CZK worse result, mainly due to rising expenditures, which are 11.6% higher than last year. This is quite a significant feature of this government's approach to public finances. An indication of expected revenue from the budget of the European Union, the amount of which is to be 110 billion in 2020 is also quite interesting. CZK, while the amount of our contributions to this budget is to be 47 billion. Crowns. The net income is therefore 63 billion, moreover allocated essentially only on the basis of the rules of the European Union, which, according to the proposed multiannual financial framework of the European Union, are to be tightened further for the next six years and, inter alia, should include cross-compliance with the allocation of payments from European Union funds by respecting the more unspecified values of the rule of law as envisaged by the European Commission. At the end of the process, there may even be sanctions against disobedient states, as we can see in Polish, Hungarian and, most recently, Romanian examples. In this context, the question of staying in this European Union is becoming quite relevant from an economic point of view. And just to the edge of one more budget line. The aggregate amount of non-investment transfers to international government organisations and supranational bodies is set at 51.7 billion. The question on the mind is what exactly this item contains and why it is almost 4 billion. taller than last year. With regard to the area of social policy and matters that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, colleagues, can and should influence, it is not just about the amount and form of individual budget items. After all, these figures and the structure and volume of public revenue and expenditure are always the result of practical policy in both legislative and executive areas, the result of setting up and operating the system not only social. And that is why we blame the social affairs department more than individual figures for next fiscal year, much more inaction in this area, unwillingness to intervene, often even forceful, into a system where it doesn't work, or works as a famous black hole in public finances. The overall list would be wider, so I will mention only a few measures which, by the inactivity of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and this government, have long absent. [[18.10 hours]] A fundamental pension reform that would be aimed at promoting the birth and family, as well as supporting the future stability of the pension system. A fundamental reform of the system of non-insurable social benefits, in particular those linked to housing contributions, where the Secretary of State has recently withdrawn a major proposal that has long been promised and announced for unknown reasons. Also, legal reform from the point of view of workers of labour offices and social unions of self-governments of insufficient control and penalty mechanisms against those beneficiaries of social benefits and applicants who have been cheating and robbing our state and their fellow citizens for a long time. I mean the inadaptable citizens, that is, the workers who refuse to work in the long run. A fundamental reform of the system of immoral executions, where, among other things, cruel conditions and beggars above so-called. tens of thousands of people, so-called outside the system, are driving an uninhibitable minimum, and from the point of view of the budget, it also means multimillion-dollar income tax evasion and insurance contributions. This would be more important, perhaps the most important in the field of social policy. We can certainly argue about the amount of individual budgetary indicators here, but let us bear in mind that this is only the final phase of the long-term process, and I am not afraid to say the fight for the form of our public finances and, in my consequences, the form of a state that cannot be built on debt and credit and at the expense of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u132	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Martin Bax, I will read an apology - Mr Marian Bojko apologizes from today's sitting from 18 a.m. to the end of the day and 24 a.m. to 25. 10th all day long. The Member apologizes for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u133	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to comment briefly on one part of the budget, the draft budget for next year concerning the budget of the Ministry of Culture, namely the part to support culture in the regions. I would start by attending yesterday's big Culture 2020 conference, which is held regularly and where the main problems of the Czech Republic in the field of culture are solved. The theme of this conference, yesterday's conference, was the non-functional connection, or the poor functioning of individual spheres of public administration in the Czech Republic, i.e. the state, the region and the municipality. And, of course, the public, the state budget, the promotion of the salaries of employees of cultural institutions in the regions were discussed first on this subject. It is a topic that has been discussed for a long time, there is talk of multi-source funding for culture, a solution is sought either by system in the form of a law on public institutions in culture, or simply, quite simply, by increasing the state contribution for regional cultural institutions. I was there with a contribution, which actually reflects the long-term unhappy situation, and all of this took place in the context of when the Minister of Culture Zaorálek actually opened this topic in the media perhaps a little surprisingly as something new. Perhaps she was new to him himself, but in the field of culture this has been addressed for a long time. I would like to quote here from an interview by Minister Zaorálek, where he describes the subject: Would you be directing more money into the regions? There was a question. And the Minister says: The way we finance culture today is heading towards its demise. Outside Prague, there are only remains of cultural institutions, their workers are active in them only because of their love of affairs, their enthusiasm will not last long. I'm comparing it to the melting Antarctica. Culture is disappearing before our eyes, and I'd like to know if that's what we want. Do we really care so little about culture that we do not intend to keep the remains of cultural life in the regions? I need to get enough resources to stop this process of degradation. Question: The problem is only in low wages in culture, to which the government has committed itself to increase in its programming declaration? The Minister says: The problem is to get funds to institutions that are managed by cities and municipalities and are not contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture. However, wage growth must not result in higher personnel costs giving rise to theatres, museums or galleries. In order not to be destroyed by our well - meaning help, I still need to deal with city hall officials. On the one hand, the real core of the problem lies in these two answers, on the other hand, but the striking discrepancy between what the Minister is saying here and what we have received under the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for next year. When we look at the key program from which these activities are to be supported, it is a programme of state support for professional theatres and permanent professional symphony orchestras and choirs, so here we see, ladies and gentlemen, a sum of 130 miles. Crowns. It is therefore a budget prepared by the former Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk, who is, as they say, black and white at the moment. There has been, not from the mouth of Minister Schillerová, but from the mouth of one of the members of social democracy, promises that Minister Schillerová will provide better funding for support for regional cultural institutions. However, what's here in black and white is just this - 130 miles. Crowns. It is 40 percent less, ladies and gentlemen, than money has been allocated to this underfunded programme this year. This sum in itself may seem quite high for the uninformed, but we must compare it to reality. And the reality is that employees of regional cultural institutions who are employed in contribution organisations are entitled to a salary assessment under the government's payroll regulation. And these salaries have been rising for years. It is, of course, right, because in general, employees in culture take little money. But few people also add B to this. That is, that all these increases in city hall and county only apply out of their money, when the direct support of this state salary increase is very low, and even proposed in the budget for this year a significant reduction of this amount. And so I actually have to ask what the government and the Ministry of Culture are going to do with this particular step. One would say that for the better development of cultural institutions, for regions to have more opportunities to develop their cultural facilities, but in fact it is not. In fact, this leads to those regional cultural institutions actually disappearing like melting Antarctica. It is simply because, at some point, the authorities will run out of money to compensate for these increases regardless of this low state aid. And then I ask whether we see Czech culture as something worthy of support, whether this government, the government of Andrej Babiš, sees culture as something that it really wants to support despite its programming statement. The government statement says a lot about the promotion of culture, the importance of culture, the importance of cultural institutions, but the reality contained in the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for next year is not this, it does not respond and it seems rather that the government does not want regional cultural institutions to develop. I will respond to this, ladies and gentlemen, by putting forward amendments aimed at increasing this subsidy title, and I am very curious about how the government's Members will respond to this. I firmly believe that I will not see what we witnessed last year when the then Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk voted against proposals to increase the budget of his ministry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u134	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri is next in line, and Minister Zaorálek wants to make a point of fact. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u135	Thank you, good evening. I just want to respond to the performance because I was trying to make it public, but it's possible that it wasn't completely understandable and that it didn't sound very clear. As far as the budget of the chapter of culture is concerned, I actually applied to the government's actions, perhaps one of the first ones that I participated in, precisely to the chapter of living art, that is, to support theatres and orchestras in the regions, and the one that is called the promotion of literary, music festivals, so as to increase it. But at that point, the budget was closed. But I made a deal with the government, and then with Secretary Schillerová, that we would be looking for a way to work out a particular area of living art. We have met several times, and the conclusion is that from the resources of 2019, Minister Schillerová has found 250 million that she will get into that chapter. So what I can actually say here is that, you can say, we've officially agreed on this and we've made it public. That means 250 million to that area, to those two chapters. I think we found a technique and a way to get it there. If that's enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u136	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is that of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u137	Thank you for the floor. I, with all due respect, have a brief response to Mr Baxa. I would blame the ministers of this government for anything they deserve, and it's a lot. But what I would never, as an old proceduralist and a comptroller, read to any minister of any government that he votes in the Chamber of Deputies as an MP to raise his chapter when it goes against a government proposal. Of course, all the Prime Ministers of the ODS, whom I had the honour of doing the Minister of Finance, would kill such a minister. It's just that the government has to defend the budget. As much as those ministers would like the larger budgets, the government must go defend the budget as it is presented, and it must not jump on the fat of the opposition MP who is feeding her some hundreds of millions extra. Forgive me for speaking of this as an opposition MP, but it is such a sacred procedure that I consider it my duty to emphasise it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u138	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will speak in the general debate, Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u139	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government present, I will speak specifically on the issue of justice and the financing of justice. Perhaps you could argue that this is rather a matter for the constitutionally-legal committee. But the subject here concerns structural investment, and however specific it is, which may not be appropriate for the first reading of the State Budget Act, so it is a subject that will be very close to the Minister, the Doctor of Law. In general, I see the state as a service, as a serviceman, as someone who provides the citizens with the service of good quality. And within the framework of justice, it is - and this is the service with which the citizen is most likely to meet - a service in particular, let's say, the general courts, the civil courts, the disputed agenda. This means some binding decision-making of law at a reasonable time. But how do you explain that while the number of matters decided, at least in certain agendas, is growing significantly, so investment in justice, or, respectively, increasing some of the resources that the courts may use, does not grow, the Ministry of Finance will give a directive to the Minister of Justice that she has to save. She, of course, very helpfully - and I also thanked her in the interview last week - shortened workers or jobs at her ministry. It sounds a little absurd that the Justice Department has shortened the posts especially in the legislative department, which, given the agenda that the Justice Department is doing, are very complex bills, I don't think it's quite right, but probably better than the places being cut back on the courts. But let's take an insolvency law, a debt amendment. Now it was half the term. And probably the biggest and most important law that we adopted here, the flagship, was the debt amendment to the insolvency law. Really -- of course, I may have a little bit of blindfolds, maybe I'm a little deformed by the committee I'm in, but that's the whole angle agenda, the key one. The idea of these things, those insolvency proposals, has risen very significantly, but there haven't been any new people. This isn't even about the judge, this is about the senior magistrates, this is about the assistants of the magistrates, the magistrates. No, the seats didn't add up. And what does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u140	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you're right. I would ask all those who wish to discuss matters other than the State Budget Act to do so in the foyer. If this isn't quiet, we won't go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u141	Thank you for arranging the order. That's something I think anyone can understand. If you decide a higher number of disputes, a greater number of things, and the same number of people decide it, what does that mean? Well, it's gonna take longer than that, or it's gonna be easier to approach them. With the insolvency agenda, it means that some bankruptcy certification is out of the question at all. And that someone would check the debtors, if they're really trying to pay those unsecured creditors as much as possible, that's also a completely illusionary idea. So there would be a need for the money to go. We've been blaming the government all day for spending money on consumption instead of investment, but forgetting the consumption that's needed. Because the fact that public power can find that right and then extort it is absolutely crucial. This is simply what everyone expects of the state, that is one of the key tasks of the state that comes from the social agreement itself. That you limit yourself to rights and give that state the opportunity to simply - meaning protection - decide those rights if necessary. But if it's really supposed to be cut into justice, I don't think it's good. And that's why I mention it here at first reading. Because moving it in the Justice Department chapters isn't going well enough anymore. This is about strengthening, in particular, the insolvency sections, the administrative sections of the regional courts. And the citizens will feel it when they put the money in. This is a very specific thing that can benefit them. It's your argument, if you're gonna sue, I don't know if a neighbor is gonna cut down a tree in your backyard, so it's clear there's gonna be a dispute. If a judge orders a hearing, there'll be a record of it. And it's gonna take three months to rewrite it because she's not a writer. Because getting a 15-17,000-dollar writer, even if Dr. Kněžínek, the former minister, did a lot and tried to raise those salaries, so he kept getting someone in Prague, in big cities, in this position -- well, of course, the dispute would take a long time if they weren't people. That's where the money should be headed. And compared to other items, the amounts are totally negligible, but they can be of considerable help. I ignore the question of others, such as legal professions, but this is where the money should be directed. And I wouldn't have a conscience if I hadn't mentioned it here at first reading. We will try to accentuate this in the framework of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and in the framework of the interventions. Let us strengthen the courts and increase wages not only to the judges but also to the disconcerting, administrative staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u142	Thank you. Next in the general debate is Mr Antonín Staněk, Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u143	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no desire to speak in this debate. But since Mr Baxa's mouth has already been heard twice here by you through you, Mr President, my name, and for the first time in obstructive negotiations and the drafting of new items of the programme, with even an outrageous remark that the draft budget presented by the government is revenge for Antonín Staněk's regional theaters for having ended up in office. Once again, it has not been neglected to mention that the budget that does not think of regional culture is from the former Minister of Culture's pen, so if I were to remain silent today, I would have to admit that what Mr Baxa is saying by your means, Mr President, is true. You know I don't perform here often, so I assure you that my performance will once again be just material and rational. [[18.30 hours]] The state budget negotiations are either a substantive criticism or a suitable whip on a government coalition, any one, because that is what the opposition is from to criticize factually and rationally, but it can also be the way in which we can settle some personal accounts. And here I think it's useless. And I am thinking about where to put Mr Baxa's speech, and one thing is clear: it has nothing to do with criticism. The first reading of the state budget is not about the chapters, but let me give you a few facts. In 2019, respectively. 2018 when the state budget was being prepared, as was Minister Zaorálek, I, too, entered into negotiations on the state budget and the budget for the Ministry of Culture at a time when its form was already proposed by my predecessor. However, I have certainly never criticized, and even here, there was no criticism of the person who prepared the budget in the first form. It is mostly a budget prepared by officials of the Ministry of Culture who are based on long-term perspectives, and this budget is then given a completely different form during the whole discussion than in which it is presented at that first stage. I completely understand Minister Zaorálek and his situation, because he came to the trial a little later than I did, which is why he had a much more complicated situation. On the other hand, I must say that I very much appreciate the cooperation and helpfulness of the Ministry of Finance and, in particular, the Minister of Finance. Her name has been mentioned here several times in connection with the promises and the statement that things can be dealt with by a certain agreement. I'm confirming everything that's been said here. All the agreements I had with the Minister were made in favour of the Ministry of Culture's budget. And I must say, and there will certainly be audio recordings from the meetings of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, on which I presented the budget, that even then the Chairman of the Culture Sub-Committee, Mr President, had no reservations about the budget that was proposed. The largest part that we negotiated with the Minister was the amount that increased the state support programme for professional theatres and permanent professional symphony orchestras and choirs. The amount that went into this program was 60 miles. CZK and the program, which until that time the flying years were subsidized by 160 million. After a long time it was really significantly increased to 219 miles. Crowns. I don't want to go into detail right now, but I'm afraid this program is fixed, including its amount and the original amount of 220 miles. it was problematic, so it was necessary to look for an amount that would be appropriate for this programme to work. That means a $60 million increase. Nine million were found by the Ministry of Culture from its own resources and 51 million. The koruna just came out of the Ministry of Finance's budget. Another 54 miles. was divided into a programme to support large festivals. This was a program of state support for festivals and professional art, where it went 40 miles. Crowns. In addition to the programme of cultural activities, where the largest part was intended to support the publication of Czech literature in translation. This way I could continue with more and more examples. I just want to say one thing. I never had any interest in minimizing it in any way, limiting the promotion of regional culture. On the other hand, however, it is necessary to say - and he Baxa it here, and here, of course, I stand behind his words and fully support them - it is essential to start a debate on how regional culture is to be supported. Because, of course, the state must primarily take care of its state contribution organisations, which it has countless, has its employees there, has its projects there, and of course the need and increase of funding to support regional culture is year after year higher. And it is necessary to find and balance out where the funds from the state budget are to be put and, of course, not to go. So I apologize for delaying you with my contribution. I, of course, will look for ways to increase, where to make a proposal for amendments under approved budget rules for 2020. There are a number of topics, whether it be the restoration and reconstruction of regional cultural monuments and other and other things. But I reject any mention, any direction, any accusation that the budget, which was prepared as the first shot and excavation at all, should be a budget in which I would deliberately restrict the support of regional culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u144	Thank you. Mr Martin Baxa will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u145	Thank you for the floor. I'll only react briefly. If the ex-minister felt that my statement last week was personal, then I apologize for that through the President, Mr Member. But there's one thing I'd like to ask you. If you have presented the figures here, how the budget has increased in this chapter during this year, I think that not only the Chamber of Deputies, but especially the cultural public should hear a clear and simple answer to the question of why, in the draft budget for 2020, it is simply 40 percent smaller than the reality of this year. That's what the cultural actors at the conference asked about yesterday, who of course knew, because they used the funds, how is it possible that from the sum of 219 miles. CZK 130 million was included in the draft budget. That is absolutely legitimate and, in my view, a key question in this debate, when there is no reason to do so concerning any lower revenue from the state budget - a colleague, Munzar, mentioned here the sum of 100 billion. CZK as the annual growth of the money that the government will have for next year. And when the salaries went up. So I think you owe this answer, through the Vice-President, to those who ask. Why did you propose to humiliate this amount by 40 per cent in the draft budget next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u146	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark. Mr Antonín Staněk will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u147	Hello. They say people who are very tired tend to attack everyone around them. I'm a little tired, but I'd like to ask you all to stick to the subject, first reading, balance of budgets, above. And what Mrs. Valachová said about education, I'll tell her at second reading, then we'll fight. You guys have a fight after, too, or you can say it over there by the bathroom. But why are you talking about how much is in this chapter of culture and that? That's not what first reading is for. Let us talk about what the deficit is, why it is so big, why there is such a large tax burden, is growing dramatically. But for me, the debate is a little bit, I'm sorry... I appeal to you, let's stick to the merit of the matter. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u148	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr Antonín Staněk withdrew a point of fact, Mr Marian Jurečka will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u149	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, colleagues. Allow me, too, to comment on the draft budget here in the proper debate entered. First of all, I will focus briefly on the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. And that is, when I looked at this government's programming statement and I found priority number six, it says here, among other things, that we need to keep water as much as possible in the landscape, and that, logically, the government takes it as one of its priorities and will try to make a lot of changes in this matter. And when I look at the Ministry of Agriculture's budget chapter, even after the holiday conciliation procedure, it has increased from CZK 23 billion to CZK 24, and yet it is about CZK 400 million before it is this year. [[Less?]] It was said here that many chapters of other departments were increased and have a larger budget than in previous years, even words fall as record, but unfortunately the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, although the total budget has more than CZK 120 billion year-on-year, did not touch it at all. And I think that there are several important areas that need to be mentioned and ask the majority in the Chamber of Deputies if it would not be the will to strengthen some of these areas as part of the second reading. Because, for example, when we look at how this affects the Ministry of Agriculture, there is a reduction in the budget of the Support and Guarantee Fund for peasant and forestry funds by CZK 500 million to CZK 1 billion. I had a budget of between CZK 1.5 billion and CZK 1.8 billion at the time I worked at the resort, because this fund primarily supports small and medium-sized farmers with its measures. He grants them interest rates. It gives them non-refundable support for the purchase of agricultural land as a key means of production for farmers. It also gives them preferential loans for the purchase of agricultural technology, food technology, fishing, forestry. And this is where we're going to have this significant reduction in this fund's budget. I think it's wrong. It's kind of alarming. When we look at the forestry area, a key area that is going through a major crisis today and will be going through in the coming years, there has been a slight increase to CZK 1.1 billion again after the summer conciliation process, but let me point out, colleagues, that budget does not count on the fact that growers, forest owners within the barking calamity should be compensated. There is no compensation for 2019, 2020. What is going to happen now, thanks to the amendment of the Forest Act, which was approved here a month ago, will take place in the fourth quarter of 2017 and 2018 and in this situation, when the calamity mining continues to grow and grow, does not count on how we will help these forest owners in the next year. Estimates suggest that the amount should be at least more than CZK 2 billion. So I want to appeal to the government here to deal with this situation, or to make a public promise that it will be dealt with within the government's budgetary reserve. [[Noise in the hall.]] When I look at another key area that is related to climate change and that we are talking here and trying to find adaptation measures to respond to this climate change, how to contain water in the landscape, how to manage land better, it is here that the requirements of the State Land Office are not met to finance land adjustments. When I communicate with the mayors of the municipalities, they say to me: we would love to implement the land treatment, which the cadastral tries to return as close as possible to natural conditions and tries to contain water in the landscape, trying to prevent erosion, whether water or wind, so there is not enough money for it today. Nowadays, there's no such number of land adjustments as it was four or five years ago. Money is missing because money is also running out of the rural development programme operational programme. [[The noise is still great.]] And it is at this very moment that the state should add and should say yes that we consider this a priority and that is why we will strongly support it. Here it is estimated that around 1.5 to 2 billion crowns are missing. The experts at the land office say: we would be able to absorb and invest roughly CZK 3 billion in land improvements every year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u150	Mr. Colleague, I'm gonna interrupt you. It's like a beehive in here. You can't hear your own words. You can't hear your own words. I don't hear what the speaker at the counter says. I'd like to ask you to calm down mostly on the left side of the hall. And now on the right side of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you. I understand that some Members may not be so interested in climate change, water, soil at this time of the evening, but for the future of the Czech Republic and for future generations I consider this to be one of the most important topics. And if we look at other priorities within the water management section, such as the financing of irrigation, water supply financing, sewage treatment, sewage treatment plants, the financing of small retention tanks in the landscape, ponds, once again there is not enough funding, we put CZK 1.8 billion there, absorption capacity in this area is around CZK 3 billion again. So I ask, where are the priorities that the Prime Minister so often talks about and says, how do we want to fight drought here, how do we want to better protect and retain water in the countryside and protect the soil? It simply does not reflect the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture at a time when the total revenue and expenditure of the state budget are increasing so extremely. And in this situation, the government is proposing this budget chapter with a lower amount than it is this year. That is what I think is simply not okay, and if anyone can be happy with such a draft budget, it is a crust, and it is a drought, but certainly not a responsible farmer, and it certainly does not correspond to this government's programming statement. So I will personally try to propose some adjustments in the second reading so that the priorities relating to water retention in the landscape, water infrastructure, land adjustments are strengthened, but it is a pity that this does not reflect the primary draft state budget coming from the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u152	Thank you. I will therefore give the floor to Mr Bartošek in the general debate, because President Stanjura is not in the hall at the moment. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u153	Thank you for the floor. My performance won't be long. If I were to sum up the budget that this government represents, it is a boring, grey budget, without ideas and without ambition and clearly defined priorities. [[Noise in the hall.]] This is because this government is without ambition and willingness to do unpopular things and build a budget for the future. I can say that this budget, however it is defended, is more of a punishment for our children and for young families. This is because, for example, you do not respect the National Budget Council's recommendation on a crucial reform of public finances. I'm bohužel so. I want to make an update that the folklore will prepare amendments in future readings within our priorities, which we see as subsidies for the operation of social services, the promotion of prevention and treatment of addiction, the promotion of hospice care, as well as for example the fight against barkworm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u154	Thank you. At this point, President Stanjura will speak in the general debate, and I will ask you to remain calm in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u155	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank all those who voted after 7:00, or I would have had about three or four minutes, but thank you for not having to limit my time. That's what I mean honestly, even though some people don't believe it. I was listening to the President this morning, and I found out we were in a weird situation. The President is represented by the Prime Minister in Japan and the President is represented by the Prime Minister in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't completely understand. I think it would be much more logical if the president was in Japan and the prime minister was in the budget. But I listened well to what the President said. We haven't learned much new things, that's true, we can talk about the 318 billion tax exemptions in a few moments, but I was impressed by the positive words about the Minister and her diplomatic art. So I thought about what Mr. President meant, and then it hit me. [[18.50 hours]] The first is the Summer Folklore Festival, as ministers, especially Social Democrats, ride with the ultimate demands of the Ministry of Finance, then meet with the Minister of Finance, and then downstairs on the microphone humbly thank them for fighting something so-called. I don't know who, what, the only one who lost was a taxpayer. Madam Secretary spent the whole vacation looking for money, searching, searching for 20 billion. If she had found them in savings, in spending, it would certainly have been a worthy act for which the sensible opposition, which we are, would certainly have appreciated the Minister. She's 20 billion. She found it to increase revenue, and then, if you take it, and I took only the background materials of the Ministry of Finance today, and I'll only work with the numbers that are actually contained in the Houses of Press 605, the draft state budget, because then I don't think anyone can question them. So we found 20 billion in the summer. Just like that, new taxes will be added in pencil, the increase in existing taxes that it is not approved, it doesn't matter that we don't know when it will be approved, it doesn't matter that, for example, the proposal to introduce a digital tax isn't in the House, either, but we already have 2.1 billion in digital tax revenue. So by leaving the ministers satisfied - you remember, the Foreign Minister, probably abroad, wanted 1.5 billion, because without that the diplomatic service of the Czech Republic would collapse. [[not in the Chamber]] He got 250 mil, says, "Thank you, Minister, I can handle everything." So either he didn't tell the truth the first time, he said he didn't have 1.5 billion. It's gonna collapse, or the second time he left with 250 miles. And it's not collapsing anymore. That is certainly part of the diplomatic art of the Minister. And I'll admit, today's the first time I've seen those touching pictures of the KSČ meeting on TV. Originally, I thought it was the kind of history show that mapped out what happened 35 or 40 years ago, and when I focused on it in more detail, I found that comrades and comrades were sitting there, and in the middle of it, Minister Schillerová - she looked nicer than she did to me, that's right, so she looked at them nicely, comrades and comrades noding their heads like that, and then we read that the Communist Party's central committee recommended the approval of the budget. I think that makes today's vote clear. I wonder which politicians YES and social democracy will speak on November 17 about how great it was, how we defeated the communists and how the communists went from war to war. The same ones who are not ashamed to go to the ÚV KSČ with a request for support, or from the same parties, to be precise and not to criticize those who were not there personally. If it is a diplomatic art, I do not consider it a diplomatic art, but I consider it a mockery of events in 1989 and the Velvet Revolution, because the Minister could have secured support elsewhere in the Chamber of Deputies, but she chose the ÚV KSČ. Why not? Everyone has different tastes and different priorities. When we look at the draft budget, I think of three facts: deficit, depreciation of reserves, new taxes and increases in existing taxes. This is actually the content of this draft budget. This year, you scattered the reserves that were in the National Property Fund, the proceeds of privatization. If you look at the Czech forests, you've scattered more than 30 billion in the last few years. reserves or profits that the Forests of the Czech Republic had. This year you attacked the health insurance reserves and on Friday we'll talk about how you attacked the insurance reserves. So, in addition to the government's deficit, reserves have long been emptying out at a time of economic growth, at a time of long economic growth. It's simple: the state and this government behaves like a hack, more and more, more, more taxes, higher taxes, just give us taxes when we're short of taxes, so we take reserves, whatever we see, we either tax or we take. I'm not talking about taxes today, there'll be plenty of time for that in the next Wednesdays and next Fridays. But let's look at the PR and propaganda that the government is running around the draft state budget, and compare it with the facts. The state budget proposal has the advantage of having the Ministry of Finance and the structure of the processed material that anyone wants, so they find the facts and they can work with them. Madam Secretary said this morning that the draft budget was good. I would only agree partially with her - that she is of quality in the form of processing. Indeed, even for the opposition, it is quite clear who wants to find the data there. That there are sometimes nonsense that such a ctrl shift copying does not pay off - be surprised, we members of our club also read the chapter notebooks, and if we come across the nonsense that your officials smuggled into the draft chapters, we will definitely show. But that's not the big deal. This can happen to anyone that, for example, in the Karlovy Vary Region, if you look at the chapter environmental notebook, you will find that the Karlovy Vary Region will provide boiler subsidies for the Moravian-Silesian Region. [[Mrs Valachová from the bench: That's good.]] It's okay. I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region. Indeed, Minister of the Environment, that is there. [[The Minister from the bench: It's been repaired.]] But rest assured, the same table states that the Moravian-Silesian region will provide boiler subsidies to citizens of regions other than Moravian-Silesian regions, so that the Moravian-Silesian region will not be disadvantaged. Let's start, and I think, rightly, with the highest item of expenditure, let's start with pensions. According to legal valorisation, pensions are increased by 749 crowns, if you want to go 750, beyond legal valorisation by 150 crowns, for which I think the entire Chamber of Deputies voted. I feel that the bill has also passed smoothly through the Senate, which has a different political composition from the Chamber of Deputies. Yet we hear that the government is adding 900 crowns to the elderly. That is at least when I am mild and hear the words of the Minister of Culture so that I do not use strong words, misleading information, because the government has not added anything. The Government has proposed something to Parliament, and both chambers have approved it. When we look at the ratio of average wage to average income, and I chose to compare crisis year 2009, then the ratio of average wage to average income was 2.3, and today it is 2.5. Now, let's look at the draft budget and see how much the state is planning on spending, after political agreement, on pensions next year, and how much the state will choose from taxpayers: employers, employees, entrepreneurs, businessmen. When you compare the two figures, neither the government nor Parliament added to the elderly. That money will be paid by taxpayers, and even 17 billion. more than the pension is paid, by 17 billion. more. This year's increase of 900 crowns, I say in agreement with everyone, I don't criticize it at all, makes approximately 34.6 billion if I quote well from the Ministry of Finance's material, and we have 17 billion that are lost in the state budget. If we had this 17 billion. used for pension payments, which means that income and pension system expenditure would be balanced next year, so the average pension will not rise by CZK 900, but by CZK 1,350. So 17 billion. the government retains from pension insurance paid by taxpayers. So I repeat, neither the government nor Parliament have added anything, on the contrary, in this proposal with 17 billion. He doesn't get to retirees from what taxpayers pay for pensions. [[19.00 hours]] You'll say - how is that possible? That's something special. It's not. It's 22 billion this year. According to the planned budget, according to the performance in three quarters of a year, I think it's going to be a lot like that, there won't be a big difference between that. So neither the government nor the parliament added anything to the elderly for 2019. Everything was added to them by taxpayers - companies, employees and entrepreneurs, those who create wealth, and those who pay taxes. 22 billion. 2019, 17 billion. 2020, totalling 39 billion. That's more than 900 crowns a month for each pensioner. When we repeatedly proposed, in agreement with the upper chamber, to increase pensions for those who are retired for the longest, 25 years or more, it would cost about 4 billion, what did the government say? What did the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs tell us? There's no money for that. Remember that. There's no money for that. But 22 billion. pension insurance this year and 17 billion. next year, that's 39 billion, thanks to the approval of the majority in Parliament, the government will save for other expenses. If I take the next year's pension increase plus 17 billion, so out of the 17 billion. will pay a hundred percent increase in parental income, even the fare discounts, and there will be other expenses left for the government. And the government tells us that she's the one who added the elderly. It's not true. And, of course, the best statistics are the one you choose. So it can fence with concepts. Record expenses. Such record-breaking expenses for transport infrastructure. Is it true or isn't it? I took 2009, the year of the crisis. We already have a reality there, not a plan. A kvízový question for the Minister of Transport. In 2009, that means 11 years before 2020, were SFDI's spending higher or lower? And if it's higher or lower, how much? It's been 11 years. Over the 11 years, inflation was so happy to be used by the Minister to justify increases in excise taxes, 16,4 or 16.6% if I estimate this year's inflation between 2.3 and 2.5. So 16.5% was inflation since 2009. Wonder for the world, at a time of record capital investment, spending on SFDI is lower than in 2009. - Minister, that was a rhetorical question. Don't have to look for it. Lower. Last December, we approved the budget of the SFDI here. And when we criticized that it was not enough, we were calmed down by the Minister at the time, you remember - Dan Ťok. He said, look, don't criticize, you of the opposition, for 2020 I have a medium-term plan - how much? - 98 billion. That's a significant increase against 2019. That's right. This was still true in December. Not in June. In September or August the minister was on the clock at the Ministry of Finance, happily announced: 5 billion. I fought! Plus 5 billion. So you'd say 98 plus 5 is 103. Good. I think if the expenses were 103 billion. and a deficit of 40 billion that would be much better than today. But the minister won a plus five billion. - and the result is minus 10. Minus 10. Look at what you approved in December and what the government did with it. My colleague Ferjenčík said it was a piece of paper. I think that's how the government took it and tore it up like this. [[He's clearly showing off.]] Or maybe she shredded modern. They didn't rip anything off at ease like that, but they shredded it. 98 billion. It just isn't. It's 88. And the Minister of Transport will confirm if you want, when we met together, the Committee and the Supervisory Board of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, and we had the heads of the largest investor organisations there, so a little weak voice, because the critical opinion does not have to pay off either, but they said that they really lack money for basic maintenance, for example. I would have expected since then that the Minister will make great efforts both towards the government and towards the opposition in order to solve this problem together. And when the deficit is 40 billion, we take that as a fact, so we found other expenses that could move to SFDI. So I think the only thing we're really going to vote on is about changes in revenue and expenditure, not in total terms, but a shift between chapters. And they certainly deserved it. I took the job and along with my co-workers, I didn't do it alone, we counted the planned expenses of the SFDI for the roads, for the events that are already underway, which means they're already contracted and the state has to pay for them. And that budget barely covers them. So maybe someone's gonna knock with a hammer, and I'm not gonna rule that out, and there's gonna be a photo. But nothing really pays off at new events in 2020, unless we change something in second reading. And you know that every year we came up with the idea that we showed the government where she could save, and either 30 or 40 billion. We found the savings. We started early this year, which means we're still studying the chapters in detail. However, at this point, we already have 46 billion for the government, which I think can be used more efficiently than proposed. And I think I'll agree with the Minister of Transport that if we were 46 billion. they poured into the SFDI, so there will be a qualitative change in the speed and massiveness of the construction of transport infrastructure. And there's no argument that there's no capacity. Then we can wrap it up. Then there will be no capacity anywhere and we will never build anything. The argument doesn't apply. On the contrary. If we want to make a big difference, yes, we can go to Poland, we can ask questions. According to my building information, enough is ready. There's no problem today that the buildings aren't ready. But the real problem is that there isn't a crown on new buildings. At the same time, the secretary said this morning, remember, at 10:30, record capital expenditures. But to the actions that are already underway. The SFDI budget is the same as it was in 2009. Who was the minister at the time? I have a feeling it was Miroslav Kalousek, so criticized in 2009. And yet the expenses to the SFDI were higher than proposed for next year. And that's only if I count 16% of inflation, just the simple calculation. And when we look at the ratio of expenditure to GDP, it's limping in all the areas that the state is actually proposing. - Not all of them. On the contrary, in the remuneration and number of civil servants, this is getting ahead of the trend. And those are the real priorities that the government is showing. To be honest, in one TV interview, I got a question that I kind of expected to praise on the budget. I think it needs to be said that something can be found. I'd like to commend the rising cost of defense. They are not at the agreed pace, as a political agreement was once made, but they are. And I think that we, who are applying to the West and NATO, have an honest appreciation for such a thing. It's not as much as we want it to be. It's not nearly as much as we want it to be. It is not nearly as much as the political party leaders put their hand to a few years ago. But it's a positive shift. So there's a way to find it. And if we agree that of the 46 billion we're going to offer you to save, we're going to use part of it for defense expenses or for an integrated rescue system - ask firefighters, professional and voluntary if they feel invested - that's a good way to go. So our proposals will be constructive. We'll offer the government most of the 46 billion. for uses other than those proposed by the government. I'm a realist. The Communists have said they will have a billion amendments, they will pass. The Communists are more successful than the Social Democrats, so it is fair to admit that they are either better negotiators or a more valuable partner. I don't know what it is, but it's true. It doesn't please me at all. But if we want to tell each other the truth, as we see it, we have to say it. [[19.10 hours]] Let us remember - colleagues from social democracy make such disgruntled faces on me - a few weeks ago, the Social Democrats came to address the health situation. Andrej Babiš told them. Shut up! Not you! You did this! Nothing's gonna happen! It's not gonna happen, so they went. Then the Communists got involved, yesterday we had a fight with the Minister of Health, who actually found the money. Finally, health insurance found them, but if not, Andrej Babiš and Vojtěch Filip found them. You didn't, you caused this mess, you just spent money and you can't save money! So then you're wondering who has a bigger impact on the state budget. No doubt, unfortunately, it's a Communist party. I am not hiding my opinion on the ideology of the Communist Party, it is nothing personal, it is a systemic approach. Everyone's got some priorities, someone's got less, someone's got more to negotiate. Indeed, in the end, when you take it, it is a really funny situation when communists demand a lower deficit than the YES movement that was once declared right-wing. You guys made it! The Communists want a lower deficit than you do. That's true. That's from public sources. Eventually, they moved away, and I think some personnel nominations are gonna fix it. Remember the last time we voted - I don't know which fund it was - the Nominant of the YES movement - he missed it, the communist party nominee - well, 120 votes, it's there. So, my dear colleagues in social democracy, don't be so upset when I say you didn't negotiate much. Remember those 20 billion, there's no train going through that? 20 billion.? That's the favorite line - my honored colleague Jan Hamáček is not here right now. He always comes and says with his serious voice: If it's not what I want or we Social Democrats will be a problem! [[He mimics speech.]] - Sometimes he gets tougher and says, "There's gonna be a big problem." [[There's laughter.]] And I want those 20 billion.! Without that budget... And after three weeks, Jan Hamáček, my honored colleague - and I really mean it in a good way, he was a great President of the Chamber of Deputies, who could take care of the opposition (?), I'll never forget it in a good way - he comes up with a smile and says: I want to tell you that we've solved the coalition crisis, we haven't gotten 20 over what the train doesn't run, but 9 or 10, you see, we were right. - Well, we didn't. And if they did, they have to vote with us today to return the budget. Because you haven't averted 50 percent of the disaster. Okay. 50 percent you managed somehow, from the 20 you got 5 of the Minister of Transport - you didn't talk about that, about transport, I don't remember exactly... Yeah, how could I forget! The absent Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs wanted 11 billion. Eleven billion, it's all gonna collapse without it. She got a lot less. Then you look at the draft state budget - and that's what some colleagues have been talking about - we have record low unemployment. Every employer tells you they're not human. Those who don't work don't want to work. That's the situation on the labour market today. But 3.6 billion. to active employment policy! Well, I wonder what the Secretary of State will do about it. 3.6 billion. for those who don't want to work. I'm sure it won't be 3.6 billion out of community service, I'm sure it won't. [[after clue from the diaper]] Dumped money. Of course, we're going to propose a reduction of 2.6 billion. Even with that billion, it will be problematic, to spend it effectively - effectively, I underline -. You could spend 3.6 billion. But for who? Are we gonna train those who don't want to do this? Back and forth? We'll retrain them there, they won't want to do it anyway, then we'll retrain them to something else, they won't want to do it anyway. Three whole six billion. That's what negotiators say. But like Jan Hamáček said, it was a problem. It was a big problem. But it's solved. We will show you, even our dear colleagues from social democracy, where they can be reasonably saved in their chapters. And since you've planned that deficit and it's going through, at least we'd invest in meaningful things. I'm sure we'll come up with that. I could follow up on the President at this point. I missed a sentence today, I must admit, investments don't have the right to vote. I was a little disappointed, I missed her there, but the rest was actually there. Every year, the President criticizes, rightly criticizes, the increasing number of officials. If you look at the B book, the state budget report, you'll find a very detailed table of how many places were saved. I can't turn it up now, I won't hold you up. So you'd assume if I took -- and now I'm just talking about officials, not policemen, firemen, teachers, soldiers, I know it's your favorite, we're just talking about officials. So I would expect that if there were some number of officials in 2019 and 1,100 saved up, that the result would be 2019 minus 1,100. No. Plus 5,000. Like saving me from getting any more, is that really an investigation? We should be interested in the total number of officials, not if I cross out a black soul box somewhere. Of course, that's right, no one can criticize it, but it's not enough. President Bartošek, apparently under the influence of the Minister of Culture, voted for such mild words as the budget is grey, uninteresting. I'm signing it, I'd vote for more colorful words, for example. I think the budget shows the government's total cluelessness. Try to find some real priority in that budget, which may not suit the opposition, because it has other priorities. I understand that. But that political view in the budget in the middle of the election period, when he can't make excuses for the last government -- we're not us, it was another government, there were the people's, they made it harder for us -- so he's been gone for two years. We are not even in the election year to focus on what we will motivate voters to vote for either government or opposition. That is the story of the next budget, and I think that is the story of every budget approved for the election year. Find some real priority there, like a left-wing one that the right would disagree with. He's not there. Index method 1,03 - 1,047 - 1,063 - no priority. The pensions aren't a priority either, I told you. Nor will you give those pensioners - or we will not give as a parliament - what the taxpayers will pay. The smiling Minister of Labour and Social Affairs keeps 17 billion like this. In that pension insurance budget, and she's gonna claim she's added the elderly. She took their 17 billion, just like that. Or anyone who votes in favour of the draft budget in this composition will take away the elderly 17 billion. Madam Secretary Maláčová is still nodding, I have no choice but to open the B book of the House Press 605. And let's look at the estimated revenue. I understand that. 524,6 billion. In 2026, for the sake of simplicity, let's all understand this, I'll round it up, 525 billion. the tax payers will pay for pension insurance. Firms, employers, employees, businessmen. 525 billion. After the increase of 34.2 billion we approved together, the expenses will be 507,4 billion. Income difference minus expenditure 17.2 billion. Did the secretary suggest it to the seniors or didn't she? It's not a rhetorical question, I'll answer for it. I didn't. She kept it. Parenting $9 billion, another $8 billion. You've got, like, four billion left over on that active employment policy. for those who don't want to work. And even so, it would still be almost four billion. There's nothing left. I wonder where she put them. Four billion, that's like two visits to the Treasury Department in the summer before they're found. I can't do it any faster. So let's not have the public. Neither government nor parliament but taxpayers pay income in the interim system. If we're gonna thank anyone for raising social security income, they're employers and entrepreneurs - because not all employers are entrepreneurs. For those who would think I'd say the same thing twice, a little educational window. These are the ones who will pay 525 billion. And last year, they're gonna pay 22 billion. more. [[Nesroz.]] Let's talk about it. If this simple operation had been done that Andrej Babiš announced a few years ago, and we would have supported it, the retirement account separation from the state budget, we see it every year. And if we were to say, this year plus 22, next year plus 17, we're going to leave it on that pension account because we don't know what's going to be in four years - and I don't think that anyone can really predict that today, what's going to be employment, what's going to be the average wage, how fast wages are going to grow, seriously, no one can predict that. Someone who looks into that ball of divination might guess - that's how it would be, I'd say, a healthy conservative, cautious management of taxpayers' money with money that belongs in a pension account. [[19.20 hours]] Unfortunately, that did not happen. The 39 billion. it is not hidden for worse times or for higher pensions than it has been approved so far. You just get lost, like you lost 18 billion. from the National Property Fund, like 30 billion lost. from the Forests of the Czech Republic, and nothing. And I hear very often from the mouth of government members about the investment success of investing capital spending. So try to name me, my dear colleagues, three really important investment events in the last three years. [[unintelligible]] That's not a hard task. That's one a year. And I don't accept that it starts three kilometers or opens three kilometers of highway. That's normal. It's not normal, it's extraordinarily low. But it's nothing special. So some extraordinary investment activity, even with criticism of the right, that the right doesn't consider it good. You won't find anything. A colorless, clueless, gray clerk's draft budget. There's hardly any political debate about him. We should have a heated political debate on the basic parameters of the budget. The highest tax quota in the history of the Czech Republic, and most of the House is not interested at all! Even your constituents are taxpayers. Why is the highest tax quota in the next year after years of economic growth almost 36%? When will it stop? When does that little guy stop robbing the taxpayers and saying, "I want more, I want more, I want to be even bigger"? The state is getting bigger and more and more and more and more and more and more, and it's not enough, and there's still a deficit. Indeed, we citizens of the Democrats cannot vote for such a draft budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u156	There. I'll read two apologies. Member Lubomír Volný apologizes from today's sitting of the Chamber of Deputies, from 19.15 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Pavel Plzák apologises from 19.00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologises from 19.00 for working reasons. And now, with a factual remark, the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Serious government, ma'am and gentlemen, don't worry, I don't want to be long. Let me just lay low for a little while. President Stanjura, at the beginning of his long speech, argued that a political debate could hardly be conducted, had a very long political debate - and that is irrelevant. He said he saw on TV - probably he shouldn't watch TV - a meeting of the ÚV KSČ, where he saw the minister. I don't know where he got that kind of data. I know, we agreed today that we wouldn't be vulgarly assaulting each other, so I can't tell him, Mr. Chairman, you're lying. I can't even tell him, Mr. Chairman, you're wrong. Because I know he's not wrong. He's not wrong, he's so stupid and wrong. Then I will ask him, Mr President, please do not do such things through the President to knowingly confuse the audience with false claims. On 31 March 1990, the KSČM, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, was formed, and the Minister of Finance and some other officials, government officials, actually came to discuss the state budget. Perhaps that is why they came to us, which you also mentioned through the President, President Stanjur, that there were others who could have gone to us, but perhaps that is why they came to us, that the wild 1990's, the wild privatization that we are still dealing with today - don't worry. I know, you're gonna tell me you weren't there. Well, we weren't in the '50s either. Please nicely, political debate has its limits and its limits, let's really lead it decently. Thank you. The Communists will support the draft state budget at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u158	There. Now, with a factual remark from the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u159	Don't complain. You wanted to act after 19, so do not complain through the President. For President Kováčik through the managing director. I think I was consciously using the Communist Party's term. The Communist Party. And if you want an apology for unwanted misconduct, then I don't see any difference between the KSČM and the DSČ. They're the same communists. If you insist on it, then in the screen recording, if there is a DSQ, please fill in m. The content of my speech and my opinions will not change anything. I didn't do it on purpose. I really don't. I'm convinced I didn't use the PC. If so, please write KSČM there. But I insist that this was a meeting of the Central Committee of Communists, or KSČM. I saw it on TV this morning, such a moving scene. The only thing that changed from those pictures from the '80s and '70s that it said: The Minister discussed budget support with the Communist Party. And if we cut it in that time machine, we'd hear it in the TV News: After a brief comrade and friendly debate, the comrade of the Finance Minister reached an agreement with other comrades and the Central Committee recommended all comrades to the Members to approve the draft state budget. That's right. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] But the pictures were eloquent enough. Thank you. Fill in the m. It wasn't intentional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u160	Now Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u161	Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, I remind you again, not even that number fits. Well, no. It was an executive committee, not a central committee. It was KSČM, not KSČ. [[Laughter from the right.]] And I mentioned that date on March 31, 1990 on purpose. Just like you weren't with the so-called ones. privatization delusions, so we were created in 1990 after the coup. You have a future, we have a future. So is the past. Please, don't really twist those things. It's 30 years after the coup. There's a lot to be ashamed of behind you, too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u162	There. Now I have no more application for a debate. So I'll look around the O.R. I see no one else, so I end the general debate. I'm asking the Minister - he's interested in the final word. [[Yes.]] And the rapporteur will also be interested in the final word? No. So, Secretary Alena Schillerová's final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I sat patiently here in the corner today, listening, and trying to be as material as possible. I'd sum up my final words in a few groups - I won't address them, I don't know exactly who said what in that day. I've made these groups of notes that I want to respond to. The first issue, which has been raised several times, was a topic that I would call overall resilience in the crisis and mandatorial expenditures. I mean our proposed coalition budget for 2020. Many of you have repeatedly commented here today on the issue that the Supreme Audit Office stated in its opinion on the 2018 State Final Account that the budget's resilience to any recession or crisis is deteriorating. This knowledge was supported by the Supreme Audit Office on the development of mandatory or quasi-mandatory expenditures that grew faster than income. It is true that, in terms of budget parameters, a higher increase in mandatory, but especially quasi-mandatory spending was actually budgeted for last year - I will soon explain to those who need not be in detail what expenditure is - rather than what income growth was. But it is also true that income has actually increased by 10,2 % and mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending by 9,4 %. [[19.30 hours]] I would also like to say that, in terms of budgetary policy, revenue growth of 11.5 % is being budgeted for this year, while the increase in mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending to 7.4 percent. And for next year? We expect a comparable increase in income as well as in these expenses provided by law or contractual terms. I have a detailed table here, but I'll describe it. I have also heard in the debate that the mandatory expenditures were lower than they are today in proportion to the total budgeted revenue. And now a little history tour. In 2005 to 2007, when the economy grew on average over 6%, over 82 percent of total revenue was needed to finance it. Only in the year in which the recession broke out were 77.2% of budgeted revenue. And the budget for 2020? In the expected dynamics of the economy, which is weaker than in 2008, the economy was growing by 2.7 %, it is planning to have mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending of 74.4 percent of total revenue, as well as this year. Today we are discussing the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for next year. Therefore, allow me not only to state the summary data for aggregates referred to as mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures, but let me mainly describe their structure. Only then do I think that this discussion can be complete and, above all, correct. I would begin by saying what kind of mandatory expenditures over the time that some mistakenly believe may have been a benchmark for fiscal and budgetary policy, although the actual and planned deficits of the state budget were far higher not only nominally, but in particular given the amount of expenditure they covered. And I am not talking about the fact of the state of total public finances. These were deeply deficitd in structural terms and would not stand up at all in today's mid-term budgetary objective test. Let us remember that in this so called. The reference period, and I put the word reference into very strong quotes, reached structural deficits of even 6 percent of GDP when we talk about, for example, 2002 and 2003, and subsequently maintained a deficit of about 2,5 percent of GDP by the time of recession, but in 2008, for example, the structural deficit reached 3.2 percent of GDP. Such was the readiness of then public finances, whose state budget is a key but not by far exclusive part. And now, I beg you, back to the mandatorial expenses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u164	I'm gonna ask you to calm down, because the secretary is complaining about the noise, so I'm gonna ask you to calm down so we can hear the secretary in the final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u165	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll speed it up. But back to the mandatorial expenses that the Supreme Audit Office and some of you are taking on today's budget issue. A criticized proposed state budget deficit of 40 billion. It could be lower if, for example, we did not inherit the subsidies for renewable resources, which the President also spoke of today. These started with the 2011 budget, when the support cost taxpayers less than 9 billion, and for next year we are budgeting 27 billion. And in the final line, there's so much health issues that we've been talking about several times today. In fact, few people remember that the consolidation of public finances was dealt with by your governments before the 2008-2009 recession by fixation or even a decline in payment for state insured persons. By decreasing the payment for state insured persons in 2008, or stagnating it from 2010. If I had adopted this policy of consolidation of the state budget, which is unacceptable, I would, of course, be holding funding in this area, virtually. expenses, by 15 billion. lower. And I'm gonna pass on church restitution. I don't want to start another political debate here where we're actually going to pay off, and anyway, we respect the Constitutional Court's finding, I don't want to play this line, but I'm just pointing out that the spending party is burdened with 2.3 billion. next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u166	I'm gonna ask you to calm down one more time! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u167	If you just add up these items, just these, and I'm going to keep going, it's obvious that the planned deficit of 40 billion, which notabene is the lowest in the last about, I've had numbers since 2005, so I haven't got any older, it's the lowest, so it's far outnumbered. In the long term, the biggest item of mandatorial spending is social transfers of the population, and there was also talk about it, which is 75 percent today. The next year's budget plans are 50 billion. taller. First of all, and it's also said here, it's 37 billion. the pension benefits she voted for, and you confirmed it, I'm just repeating it here, most of you. You were talking about valorization. But who pushed for higher valorization? This government! Who has argued that the valuation framework will simply be calculated from the average wage in percentage terms higher than it has been so far? It was this government! Thanks to which valorization is of course higher and the sum up to CZK 900 average is, of course, from the decision of this government, and you also voted in favour. That means the numbers here are 17 billion. - of course, the revenue side, and we owe it to employers, entrepreneurs and all who contribute to the state budget, we have never questioned that, but just as in the recession, the pensions are the government budget, so, of course, at a time when things are going well, and we are now behind the boom, so these differences are surplus. That means you, on the one hand, say save, on the other hand, say - you should have given away more. I don't understand! Another mandatory expenditure is a higher parental contribution, which has not increased since 2012. You're saying it's a match for you to raise your hand for him. That means, I'm just reminding you it's 8.6 billion. So then we just have to figure out where you'd like to save it. Subsequently, it is an increase in the care allowance in third and fourth degrees - 4.7 billion. I don't know if you've raised your hand for this, but I don't think it's helping the most needy, and I think we can agree on that here. A natural social transfer is also the payment for state insured persons, which is higher by 3.5 billion. That's all the mandatorial expenses. From the non-social field, these are higher contributions to the budget of the European Union and to international organisations by 3.5 billion. Kroner and also by 2 billion. higher payments to the renewable energy sources already mentioned, which I was talking about a moment ago. So if I were to make a partial summary of what I have just named at a speed so that everyone would understand what mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures are, and they could imagine how much and to which we would like to touch, then the argument about the ratio of mandatorial expenditures to total expenditures or revenues, as well as the need for consolidation, is a unilateral perception of the budget. The perception, which does not take into account the adequacy of social benefits, the pay relationship, the old debts in various forms, and at the same time, is short-term based only on the assessment of the cash state budget, not all public finances, which are assessed for each EU country according to the methodology of the European system of national and regional accounts, and the entire public finances were much healthier in structural terms in 2018 than in the time before the great recession, just as they will be next year. [[19.40 hours]] There was also a terminus technique, he's already a little bit more complicated - negative fiscal effort. Nearly zero fiscal efforts are estimated for next year. The fiscal effort, i.e. the change in the structural balance between 2019 and 2020, will be minus 0.1 percentage point, so it is negligible. In terms of setting, however, we see this fiscal policy as neutral. On the other hand, I consider a year-on-year change in the structural balance by less than 0.5 percentage points to be a countercyclical effect of fiscal policy. Why? Because the economy has slowed down faster than we thought, risks have increased considerably in the external environment, the German economy is at the edge of recession, the Italian has stagnating over the long term, we do not know how it will turn out with hard brexit etc. I therefore consider the fact that I am not reducing the state budget deficit at all costs, increasing investment, funds for science, research, innovation, as well as strengthening funding in education, as key factors not only for long-term growth but also for maintaining confidence in the economy. Some Members have even discussed that a government deficit reduction plan has not been followed. As I have said, it is necessary to respond flexibly to the changing economic situation, and I will say again - we have a table here since 2005 and the deficit, whether nominally, whether in the percentage of expenditure, whether in the percentage of GDP, is simply the lowest. I am still hearing, and I must say this, and I will be heading towards the end that we are increasing the number of civil servants. I repeat, we have already cut vacant seats in 2019. We saved $3 billion. Here in the Chamber of Deputies is before the first reading of the amendment to the budgetary rules approved by the government in June of this year, which sets the regime, that if the seat is not filled for two months, revenue will be cut. I'd like to show this interesting graph, I've already shown it in the media -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u168	I'm begging you once more for peace! Let's just hang on a little longer. So we have another point, that's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u169	Who are the new employees of the public sector? Comparison between 2013, the year in question here several times, and 2020. The difference is just - now the final number - 3 141 share of civil servants. Otherwise, they are employees in regional education, members of security forces, professional soldiers and EU staff and financial mechanisms. That's the difference, no 60 grand. And let's tell the teachers that we don't need them, let's just say it to the armed forces. And I have a similar graph - definitely, you can borrow it for a photo - comparison of 2019 and 2020. The place fell down. So we can see what the increase plus the 5,000 that fell here is. They are educators in regional education, non-teaching, security forces and professional soldiers. In the other items of civil servants, whether state services, we basically reduce everywhere. This results from the state budget. Because the concept of civil servants is constantly confused. And I also have to disprove the claim that if we could find an optimal solution to the size of the government, measured by the number of employees, the means must grow, because the average wage is rising, we have 60 percent of the students, we can't leave them on equal salaries for five years. We also want to avoid what happened in 2010 in education, where the ratio of the average salary of teachers went just down, between 2010 and 2014, wages grew only about 2%, but the remuneration in regional education went down. I must also make a very brief reference to the fact that we are not doing anything at all in the area of pension reform. To be fair, it's pension reform, and we've repeated it x-times in 30 years, no one's solved it. However, our government has agreed to conclude - a contract has finally been signed with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, so that, independently of the advisory body, Minister Maláčová will carry out an independent analysis of the Czech pension system and recommend reform actions. We consider this to be the best step in looking at it by independent organisations, not burdened with any ties and various biases. At the same time, we are talking about cooperation with the European Commission, and we will pay for this analysis together from the funds of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. I don't think there's any point in discussing whether there was any attempt at retirement reform. We've talked about this many times. I still have to respond to the SFDI budget, because if we're comparing the budget, we have to compare pears and pears, apples and apples. This means that if we take the budget from national sources, this budget is increasing. We cannot compare it with the result of the EU's resources, including SFDI's claims on the budget involved. It is necessary to realize and so we set investments with the Minister and with the other ministers that we are at the top of the boom. In the long run, our economy is suffering from a shortage of labour. This means that it is not only about the readiness of the buildings, but it is also about what we are able to finance so that it does not end in the long term in unexploited demands, because basically most industrial enterprises in the third quarter of this year have stated that they are most concerned with labour shortages. Last sentence. President Stanjura said that there is no political debate on the 2020 budget. It's okay. This is a commendation for me and a clear indication that the budget prepared by this government is balanced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u170	I'll read two apologies. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes on 23. 10. for health reasons and Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for today's meeting from 19.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Now, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, so far the last one entered into the debate. You have your word. Sorry, I closed the debate - with priority rights after final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I'm not going to respond to the Minister. We've been leading this controversy here today for weeks, we're sure to lead it for weeks, and I don't want to keep it. I just want to take advantage of my priority rights and this hour to address the rapporteur as chairman of the Committee on Budgets and the Minister, who is equipped with legal competence under Act No. 218/2000 Sb. concerning the government's budgetary reserve, and I would like to point out that we already have a second meeting at this meeting after 7:00 p.m. tomorrow probably until midnight, next week we are likely to have some extraordinary meetings and that we are loading the staff of the Chamber of Deputies a little bit more than usual, and they are doing the job extremely self-sacrificing and long into the night. Madam President of the Budget Committee, the Chancellor will not dare himself, but if you support him and turn to the Minister together for a reward from the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, I am convinced that this would be a very effective expense and that those employees deserve it. Thank you both.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u172	I am no longer registering priority rights, so we will vote on the procedural or other proposals tabled and on the motion for a resolution. I will engage the rapporteur and, at the same time, the chairman of the budget committee Miloslava Vostroa will ask her to guide us through these proposals. I've got an application for a check-out. I'm signing you off, sign up again with your voting cards. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u173	Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, let me just sum up in the very first sentence that 27 proper applications and 40 technical applications have been made in the debate, and this is repeated by some colleagues. Otherwise, we have a vote in front of us, where we have three motions for resolutions. The first one is the budget committee, which I've been reading all over here on my first appearance. Then came the motion for a resolution from Mr Kalousek, who also justified him here, and the last motion for a resolution is the motion for a resolution from Mr Klaus. So I would propose a procedure that we would vote first on the counter-surveillances, as they were put forward, that is to say, first a colleague of Mr Kalousek and his resolution. If it is not adopted, the motion for a resolution by Mr Klaus, if it is not adopted, we will vote on the resolution proposed by the Committee on Budgets. This is my proposal for a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u174	So I'm going to vote on this proposal of yours. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 154, 178 Members voted in favour of 177. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u175	Yes, thank you. So, first of all, we would vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kalousek, which is: "The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government of the Czech Republic the draft Act on the State Budget 2020 with the following recommendation: 1. Total expenditure reduced by 20 billion. 2. reduce the balance by 20 billion. 3. increase the share of investment expenditure against total expenditure to at least 10 per cent.' This is the whole motion for a resolution. [[Member Kalousek from the bench: Term!]] Sorry, 20 days' term, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u176	Yeah, the deadline, that's what I'm getting. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 155 vote, 178 Members voted in favour of 78 against 98. The motion was rejected, the motion for a resolution was not approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u177	The next motion for a resolution tabled is: "The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government of the Czech Republic a draft law on the state budget with the following recommendation: 1. Keep the income to the proposed amount 2. reduce expenditure by 40 billion. 3. Balance balanced." Date again 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u178	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 156, 178 Members voted in favour of 78 against 98. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u179	And now we would have a final vote, which would have been about the motion for a budget committee resolution, as I have already read here, and so if there were no objections, then if you will allow me, I would not have reloaded it here, for I did so on my first speech. If anyone has a request, I can, of course, recite the whole motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-002-001.u180	So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 157, 178 Members voted in favour of 100, against 78. The motion for a resolution has been approved. We have therefore exhausted all the proposals that we should vote on, and I am ending the first reading of this press. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] We will proceed to the next item in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is
