ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u1	1. Motion to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic At the outset, the President of the ODS MEP asked me that there was a broader consensus that we would vote right at the beginning of the vote that we could still act after 21.00, because we are all interested in ending this item and the meeting on this day. I'm gonna ask you all to concentrate. We're gonna vote today after 9:00. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number two. Registered 151 Members, for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. So a proposal to express distrust to the government of the Czech Republic. The group of 66 Members exercised its right and pursuant to Section 84 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, submitted a motion for distrust to the Government. In agreement with the parties... or please take the floor of the plaintiffs' representative, and this is Deputy Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Subsequently, the order of speakers with priority rights will follow the order we agreed on last Friday. That always means a government representative... The Prime Minister will come forward, of course, then always a member of the government, the chairman of the opposition club, one of the plaintiffs, so that all entries should be made to express themselves. The debate will then be opened and Members may report without prior rights. Vice-President Petr Fiala for the plaintiff. You have your word. [[The microphone isn't on.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly no need to remind us why we are gathered here today. And I'm gonna go straight to the heart of the matter. I think it is clear to all of us that, at this particular moment, most of this House stands against most citizens. It can even be said that at the moment the political conditions in this House are almost mirrored in one particular matter to the opinion of the public outside this House. What do I mean? Outside this House, outside this hall, there is about a third, or about a third of Czech citizens think that we have no problem and that everything should continue as it has been. It's the other way around here in the House, at least at this point. Most of this House holds a political position that there is no need to do anything. However, I call on honourable Members to use this meeting to once again consider whether it is right, whether it is right to do nothing, whether it is long-term and when something like this is actually possible. Outside this House, about a third of people think the Prime Minister has no problem. That there is no need to resolve a set of huge conflicts of interests of the Prime Minister, which now have not only a domestic dimension but also an international dimension. Which have a political and economic dimension. Which have a criminal dimension. And which have not only a symbolic-political but also a very specific constitutional dimension today. The constitutional dimension of the Prime Minister or the constitutional dimension of the Prime Minister's problems lies in his constitutional promise to a member of the Government. In my opinion, in these circumstances, the Prime Minister cannot, in my opinion, fully fulfil his constitutional promise, because between his constitutional promise and his personal interests, the interests of his family, the interests of his business empire, there is an obvious, obvious conflict. And in a moment, I will also be very specific to express what this conflict is about. [[10.40 hours]] Of course, it must be admitted that most citizens who realise that we have this problem do not share the same view of their solution. But with varying intensity, they realize that something needs to be done about it. And with the same conviction, we, ODS and our partners, the Czech Pirate Party, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and the Mayors, wanted to discuss this matter here in the Chamber of Deputies about two weeks ago. When we were rejected, we called for political action. And in the first round, and let us remember that, ladies and gentlemen, in the first round, we did not lay down any conditions. We were asking questions. We were convinced that there was a need to look for a way out, and we were aware that some solution would probably be a compromise between our ideas and, say, the ideas of the CSSD, the SPD, or even the movement itself, YES, but that it is not possible, it is not possible to do anything at all. Unfortunately, the response was virtually zero. It seems that the majority of the House today represents the minority opinion of the Czech public, namely that there is no need to do anything. The Prime Minister, his government, his Agrofert, his problem, his conflicts of interest, his personal problems, all this can go as before. I don't think so. ODS doesn't think so, most Czech public doesn't think so. And let's not argue, ladies and gentlemen, about percentages or argue over words. The fact that something needs to be done is so strongly convinced by a significant part of the Czech public that in recent weeks there have been numerous and nationwide protest demonstrations that are unprecedented in 30 years, and finally the belief that something needs to be done has brought nearly 300 000 people to Letna this Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, I really am not a follower of a direct democracy, nor am I a fan of a dictation of emotions. I agree with this, I have always advocated that the political distribution of forces is to be born in ballot boxes and political disputes are to be resolved in Parliament and that we should listen more to the facts and arguments. But these people go to the square all over the Republic in record numbers, and they don't go there for fun or for concerts. We all saw and heard that hundreds of thousands of people didn't come to Letna on Sunday on some whim. And they didn't come in a bad way. They didn't come in bad, on the contrary, they were confident, they were peaceful, and they had a good reason for coming. No, they weren't led by anyone, they weren't deceived by anyone, as the Prime Minister claims. They went to Letna and went to the streets and to our square because of the facts. For facts, not emotions. At the beginning of the protests, and let us remember, the exchange of the Minister of Justice stood without compelling reason on a day-to-day basis, just as the police proposed to accuse the Prime Minister of subsidy fraud. And that's just a fact. The protests then strengthened information and findings and formulation from the audits of the European Commission. And that's also the fact that these audits now just said what we all know, that the king is naked. That's the second thing. But that's the way it is, the glass overflows and people say, we've had enough. And that's what just happened, and that's what's happening now. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really understand how you want to ignore all of this. Not to offer a solution, not to offer at least a hint of a solution, something sensible to put on a table, something to talk about, something sensible instead of what we've been hearing here for months. A lie, a purpose, a campaign, never. And here we are, basically. Yeah, here we are, basically. The motion to distrust this government and this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies caused the unwillingness of the Prime Minister and his political supporters in the Chamber of Deputies to reflect in any way the problem that is here. Talk about the problem, look for a political solution, and solve the problem. The proposal that we have put forward is a challenge to this Chamber of Deputies to realise that most citizens of the Czech Republic believe that we have a problem. They want a solution. And if the solution is not to leave the Prime Minister and replace him with someone else, a candidate for the YES movement, right now and today, then I am convinced, if this does not seem like the right solution, that we owe the citizens at least an answer to the question of when, where are the borders. Where are the red lines that will be valid in the Czech Republic from now on? Can you say that? Can you tell the citizens, ladies and gentlemen of YES, CSSD and KSČM? You say it's not enough to charge the Prime Minister with a subsidy fraud charge. All right. And then what happens? He says, "I'm not resigning." I'll never resign. Never! Or when the preliminary audit becomes final? But the Prime Minister already knows the outcome, he already knows the answer. It's a lie, it's a campaign, it's a purpose. So even then, no? Do you know what the problem is, dear colleagues? Well, that's the problem. In fact, the Prime Minister does not give the public, the citizens, the people, the people, any gesture of his or her conduct to give us to the Members, gives European institutions no assurance that they will submit to an independent investigation. On the contrary, he constantly shows that he ignores them and ignores them. He does not say that he believes in his innocence before the Czech laws, but that he will not comment on the fact that he believes in the Czech national authorities and lets the matter be judged by an independent court. He says the same thing over and over again: lie, conspiracy, conspiracy. He does not say that he will not comment on the results of the investigations of the European institutions, because he is biased in this matter, that he will put his hands off everything, that he will refrain from any comments and provide guarantees that he or his candidates in the state's institutions will not intervene in the process. For the performance of the prime minister's duties requires independent, unbiased performance. No, he says, "Team, lie." And it suggests some sort of dark motive for a conspiracy. And these, ladies and gentlemen, are also essential reasons why Andrej Babiš cannot be Prime Minister. Not only because he has personal problems and has a conflict of interest, but because he does not even pretend to remain neutral in dealing with the Prime Minister's duties in these matters. That he would leave his defense to lawyers and defend himself against the competent authorities, that he would refrain from making a statement so as not to raise suspicion that he was using his highly influential function at the very top of his executive power. No, he's doing the exact opposite. As Prime Minister, he is making an open campaign against the Czech law enforcement authorities, against EU institutions, against the media, against anyone who does not belong to him and allows himself to say or write him unpleasant information on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, which is why I'm saying that he shouldn't go on, he can't be Prime Minister anymore. And we are to look for a solution, because the Prime Minister cannot handle the personal situation in which he finds himself. And that is what we, Parliament, are here to deal with this matter. Yes, I know, some politicians, for example, the president and some of the public, let's face it, say we should wait for the prosecution. And then we're supposed to wait for an independent trial. And then we're supposed to wait for the court of appeal. And that we should wait for a definitive version of the European audit because this is just some preliminary version. I register, of course I register this opinion of some politicians and parts of the public. But we have to ask more precisely here, and I dare say more responsiblely. We need to consider much wider circumstances than just personal sympathy or antipathy. [[10.50 hours]] For example, and please consider it with me. If the Prime Minister behaves this way and maybe if he doesn't end up being charged, how many people in our Republic will believe that he didn't contribute to solving his personal problem by acting as Prime Minister? That he didn't affect anyone? How many people are gonna believe that? Is it worth it, fellow Members, to break up your faith in the rule of law? And you're gonna explain that to hundreds of thousands of other people on the streets in a few months? And who here believes that the Prime Minister, who here really believes that the Prime Minister can conduct a strong policy on the interests of the Republic in European fora, when he is campaigning against the institutions of the European Union at the same time, when he is suggesting some kind of political conspiracy, when he actually kind of winks at us, that it is all because he opposes the opinions of some larger, stronger, powerful and so on? Do you really think and do you really believe that it can promote the interests of the Czech Republic in this situation and play any role in European forums at all? And who of you thinks it is normal for the Prime Minister of the North Atlantic Alliance, the European Union, with virtually unlimited private financial resources, to seek security for his son not in some luxury resort or clinic anywhere in the world, but only in one particular occupied Crimea, which, and what is the coincidence, coincidence, has caused almost the biggest crisis in international relations in Europe recently? The question is clear: Does this position strengthen the Czech Republic, or does it weaken it? Answer your own questions. And the answer is clear, and it has to be clear to you. This position of the Czech Republic is, of course, weakening. Or do you really believe that in a hard struggle of international interests, international interests, which are often contradictory, that this position does not weaken the Czech Republic? Of course you don't. You don't believe it. But we, and I would remind you, must put the interest of the Czech Republic above the interest of one person. And this is the problem. And this is a problem - not only a real conflict of interest, although, of course, not only a real prosecution, even if no one could have imagined with this five years ago that someone would have been acting as Prime Minister, not just a police motion for prosecution on the table of the state's attorney - that's not what you want to explain anymore. Not only the conclusions of domestic and European institutions, which together are really overwhelming, have been published so far. Not only all of this, but the problem is also the unwillingness or inability of the Prime Minister to at least pretend not to abuse his position and position. Ladies and gentlemen, let me put this another way. Believe me, I'm actually saying this with regret. I'm not sure the Prime Minister actually understands what the problem is. Whether he can reasonably judge his personal problem. Because, for example, if what he claims is true is that he switched the Minister of Justice just by chance, at a time when the prosecutor received a motion to prosecute him, then he's not fit to discern what the problem is and what the problem isn't. He is not qualified to understand the consequences of some of his actions in his own personal affairs. He doesn't understand what the constitutional promise of a member of the government is. Where there are limits to what the Prime Minister can and should not do, what the Prime Minister may and should not do. Obviously, the Prime Minister does not understand this. But then in this case, we have no guarantee of anything at all. If the Prime Minister thinks of separating the performance of the Prime Minister's duties from protecting his personal and business problems by accusing domestic and European institutions of decision-making and campaigning against each other, against his own person, deliberate misconceptions, even political conspiracy, deliberate misconduct in his or her well-being, etc. etc., then I say that he is not fit to handle the situation in which he finds himself. And it already harms the interest of the Czech Republic. This is also what we wanted to discuss with you before a motion for distrust to the government. And that is what we are prepared to continue to act on. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I will answer the popular issue of the government majority as to whether there is a Plan B. Of course there's a plan B. I declare that the Civil Democratic Party is not interested in taking part in negotiations on the government if the ANO movement and the government coalition decide to continue with another prime minister. We respect that the ANIO, the ČSSD and the communists want to form a government together, they have a majority, we respect that, that's for sure. And we consider the first and most logical solution that they will continue. It is constitutionally possible, it is feasible, it is feasible quickly and in case of support of the movement YES, ČSSD and KSČM for the exchange of the Prime Minister and the continuation of the existing coalition with another prime minister I am prepared to appeal to the President of the Czech Republic to respect constitutional order, to respect this will of the majority of the Chamber of Deputies and not to defy this solution. This is one option, the most logical, most likely, which probably suits you the most, which certain solutions... I do not like it, but it is a solution and it corresponds to the majority situation in the House, which will bring a solution. Of course, it is also possible to think about another coalition, but I have no reason to speculate about it at this point, because I see the central will of not only three but even four parties in this House to be part of the government around the ANO movement. And of course it is possible, and this is another option, and another part of plan B, C, D, or how many you want to name, it is possible to consider early elections if we agree in the House that the Prime Minister cannot be prosecuted in a conflict of business and constitutional interests and it turns out that such a person does not want to look for any solutions and the situation is blocked. Ladies and gentlemen, these are variations, they're on the table, they're logical, they're consistent with the Constitution, they're normal, politically normal. This is all possible. But what is also true, and I perceive it, and I admit it, is true that at this point, the Prime Minister does not want it. But we're all right people here, we've made our own constitutional vows, we're in the Chamber of Deputies, we've got all these three options in our hands as I've described them to you here. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has had several opportunities to prevent this situation from becoming difficult, how to show some solutions. He could have handed over the political nomination to the Justice Department, another political party. He could have given up drawing on the euro funds, he did not have to change the Minister of Justice or he could have secured the occupation in any other way. He could refrain from making statements, insults, conspiracy references to the investigation of his person by domestic and European authorities. Above all, he himself was able to take the initiative in this situation to ask this Chamber of Deputies for confidence. And he didn't take advantage of any of these possibilities and further aggravated the situation. It is therefore our duty as Chamber of Deputies to intervene in this situation. And this is the conviction of the Civil Democratic Party, the Czech Pirate Party, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, and together we call on the Chamber of Deputies to act seriously and take a responsible decision today. Soon after I am informed, the Prime Minister will appear, who will no doubt repeat from this place that it is all a purpose, a campaign, and the only person who works in politics is himself, and that the opposition has nothing, only Babiš etc. etc. and will present to us, along with the ministers for the ANO movement, the miraculous, incredible, incalculable, unique, bombastic achievements of the government. We from the opposition are prepared to do this, we will remind you how we have heard all these promises, how many we have heard in the six years when the YES movement is in the government and in the key ministries, and what are the real results when we are about to be in the middle of a term of office or a term of office. They will tell us that we have heard about every year, every year, that they will present a simplification of the tax system - and the last option is that they may not even submit it. That it will reduce bureaucracy by 10 percent and so far only increase; and already it is clear that it will not be 10 percent, that it will not be a percentage. [[11.00 hours]] That they're gonna massively start investing in infrastructure. After six years of government over the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Transport, after six years, we have a secret investment plan for CZK 3,500 billion and four kilometers of motorways built last year. That the government has at its disposal and distributes 25 per cent of public resources, by 25 per cent of public resources more than five years ago. But there is no area where there would be an improvement of 25 percent. That we have an annual increase in pensions, well, no one objects to that in this House, no one opposes it, we all support it. But the previous government of ČSSD and YES canceled pension reform, and this government of YES and CSSD did not submit any pension reform, nor is it going to do so. I, for this reason, or in this respect, state that this is sabotage. This is sabotage against 40s and younger people who pay taxes and taxes, but whose dignified pensions are fiscal science fiction without reform. On the contrary, what even a few years ago sounded like some elaborate catastrophic fantasy, it's starting to come true. After six years of continuous economic growth, the government struggles to maintain a 40-billion-dollar deficit. That, ladies and gentlemen, is incomprehensible. My colleagues and my colleagues will continue this argument because the reform performance of the government is pure zero. And we have not moved on to the best countries in the world over the six years of the ANO movement in government. In the last two years, we have not approached the best countries in the world by a decimal place. That's what we want to discuss. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we want to discuss every day, every hour, every minute. But at the same time, we believe that it is necessary to first return to fundamental democratic standards and fundamental manifestations of normality. First of all, there will be no prosecutions or defendants in the government. Secondly, there will not be persons who have business interests associated with state or European subsidies and regulations and who are suspected of using them and can influence their status as public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, finally find the courage to admit that the king is naked, and let us solve the problem so that citizens understand him, so that we can calm the situation and protect the interests of the Czech Republic. And that is why today we are to express our distrust of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. Before he gets to the counter, I'll read a few apologies. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes within 15 hours for reasons of work, Mr Tomáš Vymazal apologizes all day for health reasons and Mr Jan Richter apologizes today between 10.30 and 13.00 for reasons of work. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u4	Hello, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our minority government was appointed to office exactly a year ago, or tomorrow it will be a year, 27 June 2018. And this is exactly a year after the appointment, when we come before the Chamber of Deputies with a request to reject a motion for distrust to the government. But as we could hear from the Prime Minister, it's not really about the government, but it's about me. And it's not the first motion of distrust. There was already an experiment in November of last year. And I think the result is well-known, and I think the citizens remember it, too. Of course, I consider attempts by the parliamentary opposition to voice distrust to the government as a legitimate instrument of political struggle. But I don't actually understand it, because President Fiala says to resign, to resign, to actually resign the entire government - and then what happens? Will there be an early election? Then we wait, I don't know how many months to vote. Then there will be an election, then... After the election, we had a minority government here, which you think was just to shine and drown, 205 days and a long time before we actually came into existence with confidence. I take that as an attempt to destabilize our country. This is against the interests of the citizens of our Republic, it is against the interests of everyone. The President here speaks for most citizens, so I don't know how he figured it out. We have recently had European elections and I do not feel that we have no confidence. And I myself must say that I feel great support for citizens these days, and I thank them very much for that. I've been going to them, I've been there all weekend, and I didn't think they felt the same way as the chairman of the ODS. The President of the ODS wants to destabilize our country in a situation where this is extremely important to us. We're fighting for her interests. And we won elections, free democratic elections. And I am Prime Minister of all citizens of the Czech Republic and I am fighting for the interests of all citizens of the Czech Republic. And I must laugh when the President talks about our position in foreign policy. Well, I don't know when we had a prime minister like that who's actively calling a V4 meeting. And on Friday, I called my colleagues and they will come back to Prague to consult us before a very important European summit on Sunday, which will fundamentally decide who will be the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council and the Central Bank. That means that at this point, if the government were to fall today, you would totally paralyze our country. Is that what this is all about? I don't understand why you want to do this. You're talking about some foreign position. I don't know who can blame me for anything. As many contacts as I've made in foreign policy, I don't remember anyone. I don't remember the Prime Minister calling the V texts. We had a prime minister here who didn't even make a proper deal. So I'm fighting for our interests. And now it's crucial. It's crucial. It is about what the European Commission will look like. If the chairman likes our region. If it is not the President who will still show Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, there will be a problem. This is extremely important to us. It's important to our people, to our citizens. And, of course, at the European Council, we have now also dealt with emissions. And I am very glad that the ODS supported me on the Committee on European Affairs, that the future of our industry is important to us. Our ancestors have been building our industry for hundreds of years. And we are fulfilling the commitments of the climate agreement from Paris. I'll talk about it. [[11.10 hours]] So this period is crucial for Europe, for our position, for our future and, of course, for the European budget, where we finally need the European Commission to understand our priorities. And our priorities are investment. And that's what we're fighting for now. And you're actually coming in and you're saying, we're going to put down the government, Babiš is absolutely useless, it's actually a man who can't do anything and does everything wrong. Is that what you want? To destabilize our country and have what, a year and a half of uncertainty? I don't know if the people you speak for would want it. I don't think so. The Czech Republic has never been as good as it was in this period. And it is, of course, the result of the ANO movement in Czech politics. Of course, you can laugh, but only one number. Because, of course, we need money in the budget, so since 2013, when we joined politics, into the government, the Financial Administration has collected 40 percent more taxes by 2018 than in 2013. Do you know how much money that is? It's 854 billion crowns. Yes? 40 percent. So that's just an indication. So today, when Europe is at the most important stage in making decisions about the future - and we are not in a corner there, we are performing there and promoting our interests. I've also pushed through the fact that we want to have our own energy mix in the context of climate change. And I was talking about the key core for us. And I don't agree with Brusel saying that the core is a dirty source. Because it's very important to us and we want to make it happen. For our industry. So I don't understand why you want to destabilize our country. Why are you bringing in in insecurities among people? And, of course, in the context of the social atmosphere that we have, why are you increasing the tension and trying to damage our country? As far as foreign policy is concerned, of course, I don't know, I was in the United States, the White House. There was an absolutely representative representation. They're our allies, we're doing our best to increase our defense budget to meet our commitments. So I really don't understand. Someone's always pushing around that we have some kind of bad image. I've been in Saxony for two days now, and I've spoken to the President of the German Parliament, the Bundestag Wolfgang Schäubl, my friend. So if I was so bad in person, why would these people even talk to me? Why are so many premieres calling me? Why am I calling them? I think everyone sees it. And there's something that's going to make my image worse - it's not true. If someone's making our image worse, they're people who go somewhere and say something. And I am not campaigning against the European Commission. I mean, I was at Jean-Claude Juncker's, we were discussing these things. And of course you're talking about a conflict of interest. This is where it says I'm putting something at risk. But you already dealt with the conflict of interest in 2016 and 2017. You've put lex Babiš through here. Special law against Babiš. I quit the company, I gave up the company, I followed your law. I did exactly what you asked. That's your law. So why is someone talking about conflict of interest now? I have no conflict of interest! I followed the Czech law. And the fact that a preliminary audit has now come from Brussels, which interprets the Czech law in some other way, and we, as a government, dealt with this in December 2018. And the Ministry of Justice, the former minister, submitted an analysis to the government. And lawyers have a completely different opinion about it. So it's not like that. I'm not campaigning. Some preliminary audit came in. Of course, there's always something going on here that I'm gonna cause a problem. Well, I won't, I won't. You have caused 35 billion European funds to be returned here. You. 35 billion. And I look forward to discussing this here. In detail. All those tunnels, corruption. And our taxpayers paid $35 billion. And this is where he keeps pushing and speculating, what if. And who's the problem? After all, all the returned funds the taxpayers paid for were for your governments. That we still have 18 billion in custody because the clerks may have mismanaged the funds? That's how it is. And of course, here in the media area last night, the editor doesn't care about the $35 billion. No one's asking, "Well, shouldn't they return it?" But there's speculation about my former firm that didn't do anything, but it's slipping that what if she had, then what? But no one cares that it's happened in the past. And that's your work. 35 billion. And I'm not gonna be here, so I'd have to talk about what you've been through for five hours. So there's no conflict of interest because I followed your law, which you pushed through and which then landed on the mayors and was a big problem with it and everyone was screaming. By the way, there's a constitutional complaint that's been there for, like, two years and nothing's happened. So I fundamentally reject it! I fundamentally reject the abuse of subsidies. After all, I received a letter from Commissioner Oettinger, and we discussed it with the government, and I complied with him precisely. I did what he wanted. I've left the EFI Board, the ESIF, and I have no influence whatsoever. And the fact that the audit came very unstandard and that there was a huge number of auditors from the Czech Republic, I will leave it without comment. But the officials have to defend their position. It's not about me. I'm not gonna explain it, because I don't even have the authority to comment on it. That is the problem with the officials, and I believe that the way it turned out last time with the problem that everyone was yelling that there would be $22 million coming back because Mr Faltýnek sat on ZIF, it turned out that the European Commission acknowledged that it was wrong that it wasn't. But, of course, it's a grateful topic to keep repeating that I'm a problem. I'm not a problem. Of course, you like to dig into my old firm, you always like to extract some information selectively. Every year, the company gives 17 billion to the Czech Republic personal costs and contributions. You always forget to count the social contributions. You know, Mr President, that's for the pensions we raise. Even the social worker's in the health department. So I understand that you're still trying to get that information into space. [[11.20 hours]] Criminally prosecuted Prime Minister. Yes. It's a 2007 stork nest. Someone remembered the stork's nest in 2016. I think any reasonable person in this country will understand that if I wasn't in politics, no one can hear about the čapí's nest anywhere. The stork's nest has been checked nine times. There's even people sitting here who agreed to the grant. And given the hysteria, the company even returned the subsidy, so there is no crown from Europe or from the Czech budget. It serves people. There was no corruption. But those of you who were here when billions of them were stolen, were banks and insurance companies and funds and coupons and light fuel oils and so on, so you keep repeating some stork's nest? This is unbelievable. Criminal prosecution. Yes, I've said it x-times, it's a purposeful prosecution. Purposeful. Even some who said it didn't exist today say it does, maybe it does, but if it was, we're gonna punish somebody for it. So you keep saying it over and over again, these things. Řepka, it's like a favorite theme too. It has been 15 years since the European Union came up with no oil, and Goldman Sachs said that a barrel of oil would cost $200. Everybody's crazy. Biofuel - 15 years. Now the same guys who were cheering up all of Europe at the time, they say, well, that's not good anymore, there's some... In fact, everyone here - and it's repeated a thousand times that it's Babišův's rape. Well, it's not Babišův's rape. Every year, when there's rape, there's a problem. And a thousand times when it's said false, well, then, of course, some feel that I really did something wrong. I did something. But I really didn't do anything, and it would be good for farmers to express themselves more often. I was very amused today, I think President Okamura said he would vote for distrust of the government because it is more expensive onion and potatoes. That's why. And Prime Minister Fiala, who was here after the revolution, who said we'd bring everything? Who here has allowed the largest concentration of chains in Europe and pumps? Who gave a shit about agriculture from the start? Yes, we're importing 60 percent pork today. We're exporting 30% of milk, we're importing 50... [[Nesroz.]] So who said that? Who's been dealing with some kind of food self-sufficiency? Anybody looking into it? Nobody! So if that's the reason, I think it's a big, big misunderstanding. President Fiala is talking about what's going on in our society. And our country is full of great people, full of active citizens, and that is what our democracy, functioning democracy, is all about. And these people, yes, are demonstrating against me, and I take it seriously, of course. Very seriously, because, of course, I'm sorry they only see the negatives. Maybe we'd like them to admit for once that we've done something for people here. I think we've done quite a bit. And I always write it down. When I got fired as Treasury Secretary, I wrote it down on 40 pages. When we ended up as a minority government, we wrote it down, too. And I write it every Sunday. Every Sunday. And there's still some stuff going on here - that I'm interfering with the independence of the public media. Really? But I don't know anything about it. I don't remember interfering. And here I said I didn't have a problem with the annual Czech TV news for me. Yes, there are some questions about the management, but I'm certainly not interfering. And now there's a problem with the Minister of Justice. Chairman Fiala repeated it again, not really, fake news. When there was a trust problem with the first government, we had the thesis here, so it was clear when we approached Mr. Kněžínek that he was temporarily there and that he wouldn't be there for long. And this is where you keep repeating the untruth. That means there's a connection, there's some kind of threat to justice. Of course, that's not true. And Mrs. Benešová, who is a person who has over 40 years of experience in the field, is a professional, is mainly morally consistent and has been appointed by Otakar Motejl as the supreme prosecutor, okay? She had a clear and always was an expert and fighter against corruption and clientelism in the Czech judicial environment. Then look up an interview from the former Treasury Secretary, where he said he was sorry that she got kicked out of the government when she went against the Minister of Justice in the case of the Prince of Qatar. Anyone who wants it, they'll look it up. Mrs. Benešová has taken up her duties and an incredible media crisis has begun, when she was actually charged with all sorts of things. All she wanted was what her predecessors wanted. And I think I've been very helpful, too. We have dealt with the reconstruction of the state, we perceive their demands. Madam Secretary Benešová was on a round table. There was Mr. Minář for civil society and others. And actually in a very short time on June 20, she put in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings the amendment to the Public Prosecutor's Act, so she actually met the demands of both the opposition and the non-profit sector, which declared on the roundtable about the independence of justice. So I don't understand why anyone still feels like we're threatening someone. We're not threatening anyone. On the contrary, we have met all the requirements. And of course these attitudes aren't new at all. I found here that, for example, Mr Pospíšil, Chairman of the TOP 09, in January 2018, when former Minister Robert Pelikán defended his proposal for an amendment to the Act on Public Prosecutors, where prosecutors were also to be recompensed, he said it was an elegantly hidden intention of Andrej Babiš and Robert Pelikán to get rid of uncomfortable prosecutors. Like I don't really understand why someone says that when it's not true, and I think we've proven it enough. We have independent justice. We've been in the government since December 2017, so I don't understand why anyone came up with this right now, why someone wasn't yelling at the beginning. So, of course, it's just speculation, what if it were to happen? What if? And there's no way we're gonna hit anything. Indeed, we have been experiencing the happiest period in the last 100 years, at least as far as economic performance and security are concerned. I keep hearing I'm splitting up the company, but I don't want to split it up. I don't feel like splitting it up. [[11.30 hours]] I understand that people are going to a demonstration, but I don't really understand why anyone gets out there wearing a yellow vest. What does he mean? That we're lighting cars on Paris in November? Are we gonna throw tile cubes in the window on Paris? Why do some commentators say that this is inadequate and that it needs to be tightened up? Why do some actresses say I should get out? Gone! Someone was even handing out a poster with a label where my closest associate lives. Is that okay? Doesn't that remind you of anything? Why does anyone want to step up? We'll be celebrating 30 years since the Velvet Revolution. So maybe this is an opportunity for the young generation to remember what happened here right after the revolution. I wasn't even here. People yell at me for being an aesthetic. But I would like to ask you, and especially KDU-ČSL, for example, but also the others, there is also one MP who was there, so try to explain to people why you've been opening volumes for 14 years, why did you destroy 25,000 volumes? Who was there? Why was there supposed to be a chandelier business here? Why doesn't somebody ask those aesthetics who did files on someone without them knowing about it so they can fulfill the plan? I won the trial. I won it three times. And then the Constitutional Court said I was wrong to sue. But now he's taken it again. But you'll repeat it a thousand times. You keep saying that - actually, it's been happening for seven years. Try explaining it to the young generation, how it was here after the revolution. I know it's awkward to talk about it. But I fundamentally reject it. And people swear at me, and I didn't do anything. And I'm gonna win it. A thousand percent. If there's any justice. And that's another reason people are demonstrating against me. Interestingly, that weekend, as the demonstration was in Prague, I was in Bahnách, I was in Roudnice, and nobody yelled at me all weekend. On the contrary, I felt great support. And I'm so sorry. I am terribly sorry when some actors say that ANO voters are actually completely stupid, they are primitive, they have no education. Why do they say that? Why do we have such an atmosphere here? We appreciate our constituents. And I strongly disagree with that. But I don't understand why he's making 1.5 million voters out of YES to the wrong fools who need to get the right opinion! But I repeat again, I'm not splitting up the company. I'm really sorry. And I understand that these protestors don't like me for different reasons. And I hear the stories. My colleagues tell me how I feel about myself. But I fundamentally refuse to do anything wrong in politics. I put it all on paper. And if the ODS chairman here is saying that I'm actually completely useless and that I should leave, and he already knows in advance that I'm gonna be in court... And why would I be in court if I didn't do anything? I don't understand. Isn't there some kind of presumption of innocence, or how it is? I don't have any rights here? Unlike others? I really don't understand. I don't understand. And I understand that the people who are demonstrating will continue, I understand. I'd like to talk to them. Yesterday in Dresden, too, there was this lady for the next day and she approached me. So I started talking to her so we could start talking, and immediately she started screaming - demise, demise! But I don't understand why I should resign. Because there's no reason for that. Our government has a clear result. And I think there's gonna be individual ministers here tonight, and they're gonna inform our citizens and our public about it, because we have nothing to be ashamed of. Indeed, we have re-edited debt and are one of the best in Europe in terms of government debt. We are a high rating with credit rating agencies, we are the most stable economy according to Bloomberg for 2018 and we have clear results. We didn't really owe the country. We've reduced the debt since 2014, if you're screaming that budget. Yes, we need to see what the budget is, what the result is, and how much money is actually from pre-financing from European funds. It's about 60 billion. And we keep those promises. To the elderly. We're gonna keep that promise 15,000 average in 2021. Even teachers' salaries, which we also promised at 45,000 in 2021. Investment. We go around the world with our colleague Havlíček and present our project on science and research Czech Republic: a country for the future. And we are doing everything we can to get a center of excellence for artificial intelligence for the Czech Republic, because of course this is the future of our economy. So the results are clear. Of course, the big subject is the environment. I assume the Minister will perform here. But last August, we turned the experts, scientists and representatives of the National Coalition's office into a drought-fighting coalition. In the summer, we'll submit an amendment to the Water Law. This is the most important thing for us - water. Without water, there is no life. And we support research. We have approved a new research programme of the Ministry of Environment Environment for Life. That's where we're investing 1.9 billion in the next six years. We have the dešťovka program. Big rain for the village. We've already received 5,000 applications for 213 million in tanks. We strengthen sources of drinking water or build new ones. We have approved 334 projects worth 377 million. Next year, the subsidies will be up to 3,250 million. And we're keeping our commitment to the climate agreement from Paris. New Green Savings - 11,000 applications for 2.5 billion in the last year. Boiler subsidies. Those are all the things we've done that work. And if anyone's asking what we're doing, I write it every week on a Sunday on Facebook, what I've been doing all week. Regularly. So if anybody has specific questions, we're putting together accounts. [[11.40 hours]] In terms of investment, we have prepared a National Investment Plan and, of course, the opposition wants to see it, that is clear. We're prepping it. I'm sure we made a commitment to show it. And we're finishing it gradually. But, of course, on the basis of those trips to the regions, we found resources based on the demands of mayors of municipalities and towns and mayors. For example, we put 4.7 billion in kindergartens. We found an additional 2.2 billion and we will finance all the projects within the IROP. 7.4 billion we gave to improve health care. We gave 19.7 billion from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme to improve school infrastructure. And so on. I could read this place for a long time. So it's clear our government has the results. And I want to thank all the ministers for their activities and activities. It is clear that we sometimes have differences of opinion within the government. Anyway, we're dealing with them. We also solved the parental allowance. Gradually, of course, we are facing difficult budget negotiations, but Minister Schillerová has my support because we are budgetaryly responsible. We really are a role model in Europe. Pattern! And we can prove it. We've finally started doing something about digitization, too. And we adopted the Digital Czechia strategy on 3 October 2018. And the main targets don't change. We are actually gradually implementing the project and, of course, the aim is for citizens, companies, businessmen to communicate better with the state. We have appointed a government agent for IT and digitization on 14 February 2018. On October 3rd, we approved the Digital Czechoslovak programme. So we do these things. And it is clear that we are progressing perhaps not as quickly as we would have imagined, but simply the results are clear. I don't want to stay here much longer. I just want to repeat that there's no reason for the government to quit. On the contrary, the government has something to brag about, and I am convinced that individual ministers will present it here. So I take this initiative as an attempt to destabilize our country, and I hope no one means it, the early elections. We certainly do not want these, and I hope that our government will be able to do so until the end of the mandate and, of course, will fulfil its programme. We now had the first balance of tasks in the government on Monday from the government's programming statement, and those tasks are not enough: 657. 657 tasks. The last government only had 111. 657 and we'll go back to that every semester. And out of the 657 tasks, we've already done 140. And, of course, there are a lot of legislative proposals. So if We're going to spend more time talking about laws than Babiš, so we're going to move forward together. So again, there's no reason for the government... to resign for me. On the contrary, we have clear results. And I firmly hope that today Members will support our government and will not vote for distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I will now ask the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Then, after the agreement, President Bartoš will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I come before you at the beginning of today's meeting day of the lower chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, knowing that its outcome should not be and there will be no law for this country and its citizens, but only a show of confrontational political style, nothing more and nothing less than an election struggle in the middle of the parliamentary term. I don't like this confrontational style. I much prefer argument-based discussions, because debates accompanied by emotions or debates initiated because of emotional excitation cannot end in anything other than the cacophony of dissenting monologues. Confrontation policy prevents compromises, helps polarization and discourages calm and rational discussion. Giving her a full day of the House and with him a working day of hundreds of people paid out of public money is, in my opinion, a textbook waste. But that is the wish of the opposition. I respect him. After all, I believe that today's controversy, although it is likely that it will bring nothing tangible and useful to this country and its citizens, can nevertheless be useful to voters in a sense. The elector is looking for clear alternatives, thinking, evaluating. And the year of this government is a good opportunity for a balance of what it did and what it didn't. But let's not just stay with the government. There's also a year of opposition. What is the result of the twelve months of work of the opposition here? Perhaps it would be worth counting how many legislative proposals in favour of the right-wing electorate were enforced by ODS Members, because those proposals were so good, quality and their carriers were so convincing that they could negotiate their support. Yes, the power of the opposition is to enforce laws and fight for their constituents. Just because someone doesn't do it, because it's more comfortable to break it doesn't mean it can't be done. Let us calculate how many legislative proposals in favour of the conservative electorate have pushed the TOP 09 Members to face the government and its policy. What about the pirát? After all, the door of legislation at least at the Ministry of Finance, for which I guarantee, is always open wide to opposition Members. I've worked with them several times. But the opposition's interest, as we can see today, is elsewhere. More important than improving life in this country is the inclusion of committees and subcommittees by or against them, convening extraordinary meetings and associated political exhibition, obstruction, policymaking, invention and dissemination of disinformation. We have heard, and today we will once again hear a hundred fairy tales of reasons for distrust, but no longer the indisputable truth about the fact that the Czech Republic and its management have climbed the credibility chart to the level of Belgium or Great Britain. Serial number 19 at the historical count of the vote on government trust already gives us a pretty clear idea of what is really going to happen in the Chamber of Deputies today and what is not going to happen. It will certainly not be an evaluation of 365 days of the second reign of Andrej Babiš. I have a good test from television discussions with opposition leaders that they prefer to run away from the question of what they do not exactly like about raising pensions or undervalued salaries. I'd say he won't even get to assess how the government manages to collect taxes. These 132 billion, which we collected in addition to taxes last year, are going to invest in the necessary projects and priorities, such as education, health care, raising the standard of living of seniors, research science and other areas where it will return to our country in the future. [[11.50 hours]] Behind the scenes of this political leadership is the government that has done a great deal of work for this country. That is why it is very good that history does not ask at all who, on the day of the vote on trust, took over the government with a rudimentary front page on Novinky or iDNES, but whether the state was managing with excess or loss, whether its debt was growing or declining, whether it was able to enforce its fundamental priorities at European Union level, or whether it was starting or stopping transport projects. I am proud that the conscience of this government can be completely clear. And I'll be quite specific, and I'll start in order. The Czech Republic has one of the best managed public sectors within the European Union. Only two countries in the entire twenty-eight were less government debt last year and at the same time more surplus than the Czech Republic. We also expect a general government surplus of 0,3 % of GDP in 2019. Debt will fall to 31.5% of GDP. In this context, I cannot forgive myself for the rapid probe until the time when the current opposition ruled. In 2013, this country's debt amounted to 45 percent of GDP. This was absolutely the most in the history of the independent Czech Republic. Since then, the debt has been reduced by a total of 10 percentage points. A clear trend, clear numbers, undisputed reality. As the first ever government, we are dealing with a big problem with a high number of vacant posts in the government. We've cut 1,300 vacant seats this year. Next year we plan to cancel over 5,700 surplus seats. Our goal is effective and functioning government. Cliché? Maybe. But certainly not because of this government, because it is actually doing something to make the government more efficient, whereas the current opposition has always just talked about it flamingly, and perhaps not even that. We have extremely low unemployment, the lowest in the European Union for several years. The economy is also balanced from the point of view of external relations. We have a low inflation environment. At the same time, we have strengthened the robustness of domestic demand, especially household consumption, and investment, including government investment. Yes, even in the draft budget for 2020, we are increasing investment in a record-breaking 135 billion. We spend 48 billion on science and research, we add 10 percent on teacher salaries, and we increase our contribution to local self-government by 5%. Again we increase the average pension by CZK 900. Thanks to the adjustment of the valuation scheme and the increase in basic salary, the average monthly pension increased by almost CZK 2,000 between 2015 and 2019. Sure number. It is three times more than in the previous four years, when the pension grew only by about CZK 700. We all remember the time when our parents, grandparents received envelopes with information that their pension will rise by CZK 40 - they are still writing it to me - or even less. Even a lady told me about 7 crowns. And so do the citizens. You can count on that! The current government has reduced taxes for 2018 by 24 billion. A total of more than 100 billion from 2014 to last year. Nevertheless, it has ensured better management, higher investment and increased standard of living. About what? Well, thanks to their better choice and the fight against tax evasion and fraud. Simple math. It is already 2.5 years since the Ministry of Finance launched one of the most important system measures to level up the business environment - electronic records of sales. The system has been functioning since day one without technical problems and has achieved its ambitious objectives. Fears of a long wait for a receipt in stores or of a collective cessation of business have in no way been confirmed. Traders registered a total of 10.5 billion receipts at an average response time of 17 milliseconds. The overall contribution exceeded 20 billion at the end of last year. Each of us has probably already met EET in practice and can take a picture of whether it creates queues at the ticket office, waits in the restaurant for an account or how many shops or restaurants in its vicinity have put taxes on its back. Everyone could simply see if the opposition's concerns were fulfilled or not. And I'm glad the public has an opinion. Therefore, it is not surprising to me that more than two-thirds of the population, 68 percent, considers EET to be a positive measure, just as it is supported by the vast majority of business and industry organisations representing hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and businessmen. Despite the long and undignified opposition obstruction, at the beginning of June in this House, we managed to push through a very important amendment that regulates the emergence of the third and fourth stages, bringing the smallest entrepreneurs the opportunity to record their sales in a special paper regime and significantly reduces VAT to water, sewer, food and professional services. This is another reduction in taxes that tradesmen and entrepreneurs will feel on higher margins. It's meant for them this time. In the case of water and sewerage, which is subject to the price regulation of the Ministry of Finance, the VAT reduction will be directly recognised by the customer at lower end prices. I must smile when I hear from the opposition that the government does nothing about tax evasion of large corporations, but that it only focuses on small ones. Financial administration and, of course, the Ministry of Finance through legislation focuss on large fish and we have results. All you have to do is look at tax housewives that are record-breaking. In 2018 alone, the tax loss was reduced or the tax base of these corporations increased by more than CZK 18 billion. The year 2018 was successful in this respect as the previous five years combined. As part of the tax package for this year, we have come up with a number of measures that will intensify the fight against large fish tax evasion. This is, for example, a restriction on the deductibility of interest from the tax base by a limit of CZK 80 million, or by 30 EBITDA, tax on the transfer of property without change of ownership abroad, taxation of controlled foreign companies or rules against the abuse of non-compliance with tax systems. We have also introduced an obligation for corporations that pay more profits abroad to notify the tax authorities of this payment. As a result, the Financial Administration has been able to better map profits flows outside our country and another valuable tool in the fight against tax evasion. We successfully address the shared economy. Last year we closed a tax memorandum with Uber, on the basis of which the Financial Administration obtains all the information necessary to ensure the control of personal income tax. We have prepared and enforced an amendment to the Local Charges Act, which sets equal rules for all accommodation service providers, including Airbnb. Our design of digital tax according to the prestigious Bloomberg Czech Republic showed the world how to properly tax internet giants. Not only in our country, but in every country in the world, without a built-up infrastructure, without a legal system, no company would sell online business and make almost nothing. And this is unfair to the traditional business that pays the country's income tax. That's why it's a digital tax. Revenue for the state budget - about CZK 5 billion. [[12.00 hours]] We're reducing the administration. Since April, higher flat-rate spending has been effective, which means not only less paperwork for businessmen, but also 1.5 billion crowns a year in their wallets. Thanks to our proposal called. flat-rate taxes will be obtained by entrepreneurs whose annual income does not exceed CZK 1 million, the possibility by means of one flat-rate payment to waive the obligation to grant income tax, social insurance and health insurance on three different forms. Further reduction of tax administration will bring the project My taxes, which we are working intensively on and whose more detailed functioning I presented last Friday for a working breakfast with the media. We're actively dealing with illegal gambling. And we have argued that the Czech Republic is no longer a casino in the heart of Europe. Of the 7,542 establishments in 2012, around 1,500 remained. Instead of 6,000 canceled halls and bars, libraries, cafes and other facilities are created that serve people and, unlike the halls, do not destroy their lives. We are fighting the dishonest currency exchangers who have disgraced our country. In April of this year, the amendment to the Exchange Act, which aims to step on exchange offices that are not fair to their clients, began to apply. It introduced, inter alia, a ban on double exchange tickets or the possibility of withdrawing from a disadvantageous exchange within three hours of the transaction. These are all measures that improve life in our country. They're neither left-wing nor right-wing. Liberal or conservative. They are necessary and useful. Maybe she could have just been here a few years earlier. Perhaps it was enough not to do it on purpose and instead of unnecessary obstructions and efforts to think about visibility and mainly to work so that the Czech Republic would change for the better as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, today's meeting only confirms that the opposition does not care so much about how people in our country really live, but much more about fanning passions, politics, twisting in an attempt to torpedo the government as a whole. It's not fair. Just as it is not fair to raise flat taxes, stifle the economy, forget about pensioners or promote gambling. But it fits nicely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u7	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Before we continue to speak with priority rights, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Daniel Pawlas apologizes for the foreign travel negotiations and Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová for family reasons. The chairman of the pirate party Ivan Bartoš is now speaking with priority rights, and Minister Havlíček will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Indeed, honourable Members, Members of the Government, honourable citizens, are not better. At least not in the way Prime Minister Babiš and his people are trying to present themselves to us. The fact that we have been best since the revolution, although the situation of many people is still pathetic, is not really thanks to the Prime Minister or the government of Andrej Babiš. It's thanks to our citizens who work from I can't see to see who care about their families and their seniors. It is thanks to entrepreneurs who successfully and honestly run their businesses, even if the government does not make this situation easier for them and in some cases even throws them a stick. Thirty years since the revolution, that is thirty years of democratic development in the Czech Republic. That's how we're better off today. This is also due to the opening up of Western markets, thanks to the technological progress that we are experiencing at the turn of the millennium, and thanks to international cooperation not only with countries in Europe. That's why our people are better off. No thanks to the steps of Prime Minister Babiš's government. So let's ask another question. Where we could be and how we could be if we had a normal government that devotes most of its time to the development and real potential of the Czech Republic and its people, instead of repeatedly having to deal with the problems of its members and individual ministers and their passing or recording of the economic elite, a handful of chosen entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. In the case of the Prime Minister, I am talking about one and the same person. So let's sum up the facts of why we're here today. In the Czech Republic, the criminally prosecuted prime minister is in conflict of interest and the government has many shortcomings and does not take many important steps. It is not only the opposition's view that the actions taken by this government really threaten the independence of justice. The government does not fight corruption, on the contrary, it encourages clientelism in the state administration. He doesn't invest where he's supposed to, and he runs the stairs. They don't build highways. He can't finance social services, he doesn't reflect the need for modern education, he ignores the environment in a number of his proposals, and he gives away important posts especially for loyalty. And I could go on like this, but in my performance today, I'd like to focus on two areas. The first is a permanent and proven conflict of interests of Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and the second area concerns those steps of government Andrej Babiš, YES, ČSSD with support, with obvious support from KSČM and SPD, which strangles the potential for the development of the Czech Republic, records especially the big ones and their business and does not fulfil their obligations. Nor does it bring the changes that the Czech Republic necessarily needs to make it better in the end, Prime Minister. So the first area - the criminally prosecuted prime minister in conflict of interest. We draw pirát to the enormous conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš since we joined the Chamber of Deputies, and our high-quality analysis and legal analysis also supported the conclusions of the audit of the European Commission, which arrived in the Czech Republic in May. Indeed, there is a real risk that each of us will pay for illegal subsidies by companies in the holding and under the trust funds of Andrej Babiš. At the same time, this situation harms the reputation of the Czech Republic at EU level, where there could be a threat that if things concerning these areas are negotiated, the Czech Republic will stand behind the door in quotation marks. After all, this was also the Prime Minister's argument that at some government meetings he was leaving behind the door. The agrifertization of the Czech Republic has been happening systematically for several years and it is the issue of hundreds of millions of contracts, public contracts. It's drawing subsidies. It's a man-to-man occupation. And now that the European Commission's audits have come in and Mr Babiš is caught red-handed, he's blaming everyone, kicking around, questioning the conclusions of this audit and screaming literally that he'll never resign. I believe in the impartiality of lawyers, auditors and experts of the European Commission and I also believe in the decision, the final decision of the court in the Czech Republic. I think there's a saying here, too, that God's mills go slow, but sure. Although, in most Western democracies, the Prime Minister would have resigned long ago with such a damaged reputation. So if we're comparing ourselves to those Western advanced democracies, we're kind of limping in this, but there aren't any ladders that we can walk around here, as we have responsible politicians, unfortunately. Pirates have been from the beginning those who have not kept quiet about this matter. And I stand here today with a clear conscience as the leader of a party that bears no historical brand of corruption and clientelistic ties. And I have to say, the pirát weren't afraid to deal with corruption in front of Babiš and Babiš. Prime Minister, I wonder how you see it, or how you feel - when we look at the society that is divided - how you perceive that you have brought our country into this agony with your irresponsible behavior. Those 300,000 people, about 300,000 people who arrived at Letna, it really wasn't a concert or a fun show. [[From the benches of the ANO Members, a vote specifying the number of demonstrators.]] I'm gonna... I will now... I thank the ANO Members for not jumping in and listening to me as we listened to the Prime Minister and Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u9	Prime Minister, leave it to me. I'll settle for peace in the House. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u10	The second important thing for citizens is the constant drunkenness of rolls, as the government of Andrej Babiš and with the support of now, I would say, the second league of social democracy, but also KSČM and SPD are leading this country. Ask those teachers, paramedics and social workers how much they have really been added and how their working conditions have changed. They'll answer that. They're responding to us. But this isn't just about wages, which I'm afraid to the Prime Minister, who talks to the press about how he pumps money everywhere, and he doesn't understand that citizens don't appreciate it. It is hard for him to understand that life is not only about how much the owner of the company or, respectively, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will add to it, but it is about permanent development, sustainable development. Speaking of money, that balanced budget, that's not even what the government's trying to do, and it's not planning. The budget is permanently deficitd, and he could theoretically be, if on the other hand, it was cooked up by those crucial investments that would ensure the future, which would make it better. But these investments don't happen in the real world. I must say that the deficit budget is the result of this lengthy stockpiling. For those of you who don't know what the word "punching" is, it's a sweaty sluggish at some point. This is how I see the current development of the Czech Republic. The government led by Andrej Babiš does not long-term support the citizens of the Czech country and I do not think that it is able to guarantee the competitiveness and future of the Czech Republic in an ever more dynamic, changing environment. I would like to use the term that has already been said here in the direction of previous governments. It's still the government's maintenance. A government that solves problems based on how public opinion polls are based on the problems it throws out, and then changes the solution quite inconclusively, rather than presenting and making the necessary changes that are in excess of the government's term of office, in whose half we are already in. And I am not surprised, and it was ironically said here by the Minister of Finance that the country is in such a state that progress is not going fast enough. Indeed, even though this meeting is exceptional during the parliamentary week, we must deal with government personnel problems every month, government competence problems or problems that Prime Minister Babiš causes in his capacity by acting and conflict of interest. So what do we need to deal with, and what should we have time for, and what should be a priority? We have almost a million executioners here. There are dozens of kilometers of highways missing. It does not exist, and this has certainly not led to this, the certainty of the financing of social services in the Czech Republic. So far, the state's digitization is mainly on paper. And I'm a little worried if it's not the Prime Minister Babiš's paper diary. We're actually starting to slow down, and we're slow to stop at the pace of changing the way education abroad is. We're not dealing with environmental devastation. When I look at long-term tasks, the sustainability of the pension system does not mean anything to this government. As well as the availability of housing. The Social Housing Act has been swept off the table, the Ministry has offered an investment programme that does not address this, and the housing market situation and housing market problems are constantly deepening. Thus, the state budget, and it will be a big theme of this summer, is being saved by various accounting tricks or transfers from money, which are definitely not intended to blow up some revenue holes or bad estimates, but were intended to eliminate environmental disasters or to prevent the risks of outages in the pension system. To commend here the same, ironically, what Minister Schillerová was talking about, the only real project that Andrej Babiš invented and completed despite the rescue brake given to it by the Constitutional Court is the stalking and bullying EET, which is new for the smallest entrepreneurs and businessmen and their activities. And even the real contribution, and this debate has been going on for a very long time, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance cannot support citizens through massive propaganda. In my opinion, six years from now, Andrej Babiš's work in top policy is desperately low. Instead of solving the fundamental problems of our society, we are thus witnessing the politicalization of the state administration through the deboning of the service law, but even the intimidation and expulsion of uncomfortable people, the de-honesting of opponents and experts and the favoring of powerful ones. As I said before, we are witnessing the aforementioned agrifertisation of the state. I think it has already been said enough to make it clear that the pirát will still vote in favour of the distrust of the government of Andrej Babiš today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u11	I thank Mr Bartoš. Minister Karel Havlíček will now speak with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My view will logically be from the point of view of the economy. And let me just follow up on my previous speakers. President Bartoš said, in principle, that we are doing well. I'd just like to draw a picture of what we're doing well from an economic point of view. The lowest unemployment rate means that we have the most stable labour market in Europe. Solid economic growth, a reasonable rate of inflation, a stable banking financial environment. The growing number of the smallest companies, historically we have never had more than a million active entrepreneurs, the fourth year in a row is growing, and 470,000 legal entities, once again an increase of approximately 20-25 thousand new entities every year. What I disagree with, what President Bartoš said is that it is only the credit of employees, employers, businessmen. I'm sure it's their fault, too. It is true, and it is their great credit, because we have really good companies here. We have top employees here. But we also have a functioning government. And I am actually convinced that this is also due to the government. To argue that the good result of the Czech Republic, which is an example throughout Europe today, is not due to, among other things, the government, is the same as if we were to say that the excellent results of any company are not due to management. That is, in order to stay on top of this, and I dare say that after 20 years we are driving the first-class European speedster, it means that we need to add a little more and hold our positions, to say what we are going to do, how we are going to do it. And that is what I am actually convinced that if the government were destabilized, if what had fallen here, the early elections would have a fundamental impact on our economy, but what is worse, a whole range of activities and steps that are well-directed, unfortunately, we would not be able to manage. I'm gonna try to introduce a few of these, and I'm gonna draw up what might happen if we interrupt our steps today. We are trying to put all this into the vision of the Czech Republic, the economic vision, the first economic vision after 20 years, which we are heading for the Czech Republic by 2030 as a country that should be among the twenty most competitive economies in the world. The chances for us to do this are first of all because we are based on a good basis, and this is high economic stability, good infrastructure, solid education, hardworking people and, above all, determination and ability to achieve this. In what areas we want to achieve this, and at the same time I will say what stage we are at, and therefore what we have also succeeded, or vice versa. Of course, not everything worked out for us. A complete basis for future prosperity, and I dare say one of the best business cards in this government is to promote research, science and innovation. No doubt everyone said so. The question is, who has ever done what for it historically? If we look at a few factors based first on the funding of science, I am simply pointing out that from 2015 to 2020, we have raised funding from 27 billion to 38 billion. But the fact is, it's not just about funding, it's not just about money, it's about research quality. In order for research to be of good quality, it has to be well guided. The correct parameters must be set in order to drive well. We have set parameters in a completely new R &amp; D evaluation system, a completely new methodology, both so-called institutional and dedicated support. [[12.20 hours]] Historically, for the first time, we got it, and I'm very happy for it, positive responses, I mean historically, any government, from the Academy of Sciences. Yes, from the Academy of Sciences, which was almost erased from the map of Czech history between 2009 and 2011, because a new evaluation system was set up, they lost CZK 500 million year-on-year, as a result of which the Academy of Sciences lost CZK 6 billion overall in the following years. In 2009 to 2011, and now I'm not even saying it politically, because I admit that I don't know who was in control of the Ministry of Education at the time, virtually. who were sitting at that time in the Council of the Government for Research, Science and Innovation, so at that time a tsunami was made, whose aim was to dismantle the Academy of Sciences so as to transfer some of the constitutions to some universities, or to completely erase something. Why do I say that? Currently the Academy of Sciences is on the 19th place in the world, taking into account the results of science, among the so-called. non-university institutions. At present, after a few years, we managed to get it into a way of financing the one that was in 2010, so all this time it was just playing to get at least what belongs to it. Although it may not be my place, I apologized to the Academy of Sciences during the previous government. As regards international strengthening of domestic science and research - another important step. We have managed to get and for the first time move the international council to the top level. We have a top person there, one of Israel's most important, former state scientist of the State of Israel. We've got a top-notch person from Singapore, all the results of our travels. Plus, of course, there are representatives of the United States, Germany, Austria, etc. And perhaps more invisible, we have managed to approve a key document, and this is the Innovative Strategy of the Czech Republic. For many years there has not been anything like this, it is a simple document, which after a long time did not create consulting firms for several million crowns, we made it ourselves, we made it in complete with several dozens from our point of view the most qualified people in the Czech Republic and we made it clear where we wanted to be in a few years' time. I am saying this in such detail because if we want to maintain stable growth, if we want to focus on added value, if we want to aim for final production, and I believe that we agree with most of you on this, whether you are from the right, whether you are from the left, the basis is innovation, the basis is that we must invest in this area today. That's not populist. We all know that the money we're putting in there today, and the activity we're putting in there, it can't be harvested by this government. At best, they will be harvested by another government, but rather by governments even more, which will be there. But it is a basis for all the others who will be here in 2025, like 2027, in 2030 - a solid environment where added value can be built, which allows people to have solid wages, firm earnings and a solid tax revenue. Artificial intelligence. No doubt you've all noticed, or most of you, that we've taken the battalion into our hands and started opening the door to become one of the carriers of artificial intelligence throughout Europe. We have a chance to become one of the four countries that will play absolute primam in this area. We have prepared an artificial intelligence strategy, not a political one. When we look into it, we respect science, funding, but also ethical areas, we respect re-training. And we're doing this because according to all the world's statistics in one generation, artificial intelligence will cover half the labour market. We are looking for suitable topics that we will continue to produce, show and in which we will be active. We found this in the area of safety, in the area of traffic safety, in the field of services, etc. I don't want to go into details right now, but in any case after a long time we can have a big business card of the Czech Republic and that is the area of artificial intelligence. Not only because we have top scientific backgrounds and other 500 . students, but also because the Czech Republic currently has enormous respect in this area, both in the European Union and in the United States of America. There's been a lot of digitalisation here. In any case, the Digital Czech strategy, which addresses both the digital economy and the digital society, as well as the relationship with digital Europe, has several hundred tasks to be done over the next few years, is the steps taken by a government agent for the digitalisation of colleague Dzurilla. I'm actually convinced that he's doing it right, he's not doing it politically, he's doing it factually, he's doing it professionally, and he's trying to concentrate all activities under one roof for the first time. 5G. Last week we introduced the first timetable of how we will implement 5G until 2030. Including the fact that the first city of 5G will be covered in 2020, all railways and main motorway corridors should be covered in 2025 and 70 per cent of the Czech Republic 5G should be covered in 2025. That's why we're writing a tender, among other things, and it's ready if it's not today, so it might be tomorrow, no later than next week, tender or virtually. auction, to be exact, for a new operator. The goal is not only what we declare here today and daily, but of course it is also the goal, and this is to reduce mobile data prices, but, of course, to prepare our environment for 5G. If we do not do this today, if we interrupt this, we will have a major problem with this both in industry and in the communication of citizens. Young people especially appreciate it. We have also touched on the reduction of data for mobile operators here, and I am pleased that the Chamber of Deputies has adopted a positive position on this and that the so-called 'observation' has been adopted. a legislative package that allows a faster transition from one operator to another operator and creates a basis for anyone to want the Czech market at all. I think we're seeing the first results today. It was a matter of time before the first operators responded, and they responded. Data prices - I don't want to say they're going down, but data prices are starting to go down. I am convinced that this will continue in the coming months. We have not declared war on telecommunication operators, but we are dealing hard with them, and I think that after a long time there is an environment where mobile operators see a hard negotiator standing against them. Of course, they would be very happy if there were new elections and if all of this were to go away. I'm not going to explain and show what new programs have been written here for start-ups, for small investors. I mean, small investors who invest in innovation. But the Country for The Future programme or the Trend programme, which was approved within the MIT, or within the Government Council on Research, Development and Innovation, allocates several billion crowns for the next years, not subsidy money, but money to support the environment, infrastructure, to make things a little better. Energy. I think that we are all aware that we are at a crucial time in terms of the formulation of the future energy concept and future energy mix. We will not decide everything today, but today we are creating a timetable for how the energy source will work here between 2030 and 2040 and beyond. Today we formulate how much percent there will be a core, how much percent there will be renewables, coal, or gas, and anything else. This is a highly responsible matter, which is undoubtedly above not only this government, but also this House, on which all participants in the political environment must agree. If it doesn't happen, we're gonna make a huge problem for the next generation. We have to say here, and quite rightly, that in this I feel that cooperation across the political parties also works here. And let me give you a specific example - a core committee that is absolutely essential to prepare here the model and timetable of how the core will be built. Without the core, we just don't make the energy concept. We can talk about where it will be, we can talk about what year it will be there in, but the core committee works, and I say it in a good way because I participate in it and there are members and other political parties there, and I have to say that communication works well there, that it works factually and that it works with a high degree of responsibility that today is a real future energy mix, which naturally affects prices, but also affects the environment, affects technology and affects everything else. I could say more details now that we've done here in the field of energy. Perhaps I would mention the proposal to reduce emissions, it was a big discussion, perhaps sometimes emotional. It is not true that the Czech Republic plays a secondary role in Europe. According to the Paris Agreement, we will not only comply that in 2030 we will be 40 percent lower than in 1990, but even in 2050, we have proposed as one of the few that it will be 80 percent lower. As one of the few we adhere to the share of renewable resources, even though incredible money and 3% of the electricity that today makes up solarium cost us CZK 28 billion a year. And a total of 46 billion crowns a year cost us all renewable resources. I'm not saying that against renewables. Renewables are the right way. I say this because when energy concepts and strategies were underestimated between 2005 and 2010, when this was not dealt with factually, but it was dealt with politically, emotionally, the result is that it costs us 46 billion crowns a year today. I repeat, I'm not saying this because solariums or renewables are something wrong, I'm saying this because the good idea was badly prepared. In any case, in renewables, we were supposed to be 13 per cent today according to our commitments to Europe - and we are 15 per cent. We suggested 20.8%, Europe says move it a little bit, maybe we'll get to 22, 23, 24 percent. I don't know at this point, but that's where we're going. [[12.30 hours]] And we keep what we said in our commitments to fossil fuels. Coal today is 43 percent, 15 percent over 20 years. It's a good thing to say when we're standing here, but believe me, it's extremely challenging again in terms of preparing the timetable, communicating with the miners, communicating with environmental organisations. We're under a lot of pressure, but on the other hand, I think we need to. And in this, we have to be absolutely invulnerable, absolutely assertive, and we have to be as objective as possible. Among other things, we are preparing with the Ministry of Environment, it is already finished after a long time discussed by the so-called coal commission. In the end, we've dealt with energy bastards. Those who have flown and dragged every consumer here, every grandmother in the sense that they have abused the way they offer her electricity, and by transferring it to the Energy Regulatory Authority, by starting to register them, by changing legislation, this should be done again within a few months. Investment. It has already fallen - because, of course, investment is the basis of future growth - that it shifts from 85 to 85 to 50 billion respectively, so that it will total 135 billion. If I say 85 + 50, they are national resources and European resources. That's how investments were always prepared. The package was taken, national resources were suitable, European resources. This isn't about someone hiding an investment plan today. To tell you the truth, who's gonna do the job, they're gonna find the key investments themselves. I'll find that, if I sit behind Google, I'll have it in 15 minutes. The important thing is that they must choose the ones that will be realized and those that we have a chance to unfinance in the next ten years. Yet we all know that we do not have a chance to finance them only from the state budget or from European money. That's why we're looking for other alternative sources today. That's why we're getting involved today, and for the first time, we're creating a group that starts running PPP projects here. That is why today we are going to activate resources at European Investment Bank level, the European Investment Fund. That is why today we are creating the so-called National Development Fund, which we will present in two days, when we agreed with the key players on the first few billion that will be inserted into it, and the leverage effect will be 30, 40 billion crowns. That is why today we are changing the structure of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, because it is a bank behind the zenith. It is a bank that has historically put quite right out of support in the sense of small and medium-sized enterprises and businessmen. And he will continue to do that. But b) - the bank must be given the parameters today to be the bearer of the national investment in terms of financing it through the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, or perhaps to cover the National Development Fund. That's why we changed the Investment Incentives Act here in the House 14 days ago after a slightly more emotional discussion. Yes, the law that worked here for 25 years, the law that in the finals meant that foreign entities had gained nearly 3 million per head, and did not look at whether it was value-added production or value-added production. This law has not been abolished, this law has changed fundamentally. And that means that it will be completely minimized. And minimalized only for anyone who invests in research, in development, in science. So what I said here in the introduction. In other words, we are supporting innovation growth again. And not only the innovative growth of companies, but also, of course, the development of universities. Because it's all connected to it. Those universities can't do without private R &amp; D money. In order to be able to realise these investments, we need an environment, not only technological but also construction. This is why it is being finished to prepare for the recodification of building law. Therefore, after a long time, the system begins to change completely from digitization to essential simplification for any builder, whether a big builder or a small one. On that, I believe that almost everyone agrees too. The job market. Perhaps the biggest barrier to the current growth of domestic companies. Not the labour market itself, but the situation that is critical. 350,000 employees are asking around today. Approximately 200,000 are available on the labour market in quotation marks. If we subtract about 100,000 of those who don't work and never work, we're in a situation that's never historically been here. It can't be solved just behind a desk, it can't be solved by someone saying, and we're going to roboticize. That sounds really nice, sounds efficient, but let's just robotize all small businesses, middle companies, businessmen and so on. We have a whole range of products that we just can't get into the area whether artificial intelligence or just any 4.0 format. So all we have to do is increase the share of foreign workers. So it's been a week since we agreed from 20,000 to 40,000 workers from Ukraine to the pressure of business unions, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry, the Association of Small and Medium and so on. You all know them. Of course it doesn't solve everything for a long time. But on the same day, we took measures to increase by hundreds, or by a thousand, workers from Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Serbia, but also from the Philippines. So the market demand, which was at least 50 grand, was met. Although it was not easy and, of course, we respect the fact that the unions would deal with it differently. But it's not just about basic labor. If we want to keep the trend that we have here in terms of innovation, in terms of high added value, it is, of course, about bringing talent from abroad, keeping our people here. Among other things, this innovation strategy was aimed at doing so. This leads us to create a nice environment here, a technological environment, a pleasant environment for people, whether they work in the business, no matter where they work in school, no matter where they work in the state sphere. That's why we're creating this environment for them today to get these foreign workers here. We're creating a model called working with talent, and we're getting talent from all over the world. Of course, we get them at good universities, we get them at good research sites, which, among other things, we have over a hundred. And they're not bad, they're good. Some of them are among the best in the world. But we must be able to promote them, we must be able to offer them, and we must be able to create facilities for those who come here, including their families, including their children. That's what we're working on right now. And, of course, we can interrupt. The world may not go crazy, but in any case, I think it would be a shame. Education. I do not want to talk about reform of education here. It's not my place, and I'm sure my colleague Plaga would describe it better. But if we are preparing an economic strategy, then we understand that we need to fit the education system into it as well, in the sense that when we say where we will be in 2030 in the area of autonomous management, electromobility, in the area of energy mix, for example cores, we have to raise capacity today. We can't wait until 2025, 2030. And just start preparing study programs. Today we have to tell each other where we want to be and at the same time we have to start creating new study programmes. That's what we're doing at the level of the Ministry of Education today, that's what's interfering with business quotes, that's what businessmen are interfering with. And that's what the state has to intervene in. Because he has to show the future situation and start preparing those programs, whether at high school level or universities. Speaking of high schools. In autumn, the legislative proposal for dual education will be completed and prepared after 25 years. I'm not saying we turn the wheel of history, and from the next year, everything will start working here on a dual basis. All I'm saying is that there will be a complete foundation here, including the role of the regions, including the role of the state, including the role of chambers, unions and everyone else. At the same time, we are preparing a major mix of universities especially with so-called advanced technologies in cooperation with business. Yesterday the GE centre opened in conjunction with ČVUT. Among other things, yesterday, when we returned from Dresden, or when we were in Dresden, we managed to arrange that the first Fraunhofer center in the Czech Republic would be opened next year. And what's interesting is he'll be in Ostrava, he won't be in Prague. It will be in the field of artificial intelligence and its application to material engineering. Fraunhofer don't have to introduce Fraunhofer to anyone. It is the world's most important research organization in applied research. Business. A little bit of my domain. And, of course, I understand that entrepreneurs are complaining. I have been on their level recently, and I have harshly criticized what has failed, what should be improved. And it's true we have a lot to improve. Anyway, there's no point in doing hundreds of homework today. All you have to do is have six, seven, ten keys, but you finish. And we have them, they're ready. And we're even starting to make them. A small single collection point. We call it marketing. But that's what maybe 15 years of talking about again. It won't be a so-called big single collection point. But for all who have incomes of up to one million inhabitants - 420 thousand businessmen - one levy at the level of social, health and income tax is ready. [[koruna]] It should be put into life next year. We're working with the Treasury. On the same day and during the same period we quite significantly reduce all operations in the field of statistics. I don't want to burden you with this right now, but for 35,000 entrepreneurs alone, we have succeeded in the last 14 days - it is not yet such a high number, because of course for 1.5 million entrepreneurs it is not yet a victory, but at least the first step. All information for businessmen will be in a new central location or old-fashioned place since autumn, we will not invest anything new, it will be business info. We'll concentrate everything in one place. Entrepreneurs will find everything there, in a new interface, quickly, nice graphics. And we're introducing a new tracking system, so it's fair for everyone. He's based on the fact that he's going to be watching exactly every day for what he's done and what he hasn't done. So everyone will be able to see what we have promised, what has been done, what has not been done. So we're confusing the whip for ourselves. [[12.40 hours]] Craft. I've met about 40 craft unions in the last month, together we meet, of course. After a long time, a master test is prepared. Someone's up for it, somebody's up for it. In any case, there will be a voluntary master test and it will move us to where the other countries are, e.g. Austria, Germany, Switzerland. It's a traditional view of quality. Whoever doesn't want to do it doesn't have to do it, they'll have it, but they'll have that opportunity here. If you registered this, then another requirement, not only for craftsmen, but also for technicians and, frankly, for all those who are in the field of new technologies, was in the final inclusion of a new subject of technology and polytechnic teaching at elementary schools. The course is ready, in autumn it starts in the order of 50 to 60 schools, exactly 53 schools, the object of technology. After many years, this subject - which everyone made fun of because they compared it to workshops, it is not workshops, on the contrary, it is practical lessons associated with drones, with the latest technologies etc. - start to run at 53 top schools, and in 2022 it should be standard. I'm about to finish, and I'm just gonna point out one last thing, and that's that we shouldn't be ashamed of our results. We can argue here, we can wonder who's better, who's worse, anything can be created. But in any case, the fact that we stand well, economically, innovatively, scientifically, that we have top people, we also need to be able to sell well. And this is the last change that we are going to make to the new economic strategy is another presentation of the Czech Republic. We've introduced a new brend, a new logo. We're changing the original Land of Stories for Country for The Future, Earth for the future. We are circling the world, showing our country not only as the Land of Stories, not only as a land of cheap beer, not only as a country of top hockey, good athletes and nice corners, but, among other things, because we do not, of course, negate it as a country of huge opportunities in the field of technology. The land of smart people, a country that appreciates everyone who comes to us. A country that is trying to keep our skilled young people here, a country that is ready to prepare the environment. That's what we're headed for, and that's what the new brand's headed for. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u13	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade and Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček for his speech and we will continue with the performance of the President of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u14	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, we are having a rather fundamental debate on the functioning of this government of the ANO movement and social democracy with the support of the KSČM. I confess that I am a little surprised to look to the left of my hand, where we have a Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, and I don't see any ministers for social democracy here, so I don't know if it's any kind of signal, their exit from the O.R., and I don't care about this debate, but I think it's some kind of message in the direction of how they perceive or don't perceive the functioning of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we heard today? The Prime Minister said we have something to show off. On the contrary, you, the opposition on the right, want to destabilize our country, etc. etc. Prime Minister, no one, for example, has spoken here but you, and is not talking about early elections. You say, we work, we work. You're fencing numbers here. So I would also like to remind you specifically of how this government of yours is managed. And I will compare it with the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, where you sat as Minister of Finance and where the ministers for KDU-ČSL were. So Bohuslav Sobotka's government discussed a total of 828 points in the first six months. Your current government has only discussed 567. Government bills your government discussed 20, eight of which were simple transpositions of European law. Sobotkův's government also discussed 51 government proposals with KDU-ČSL ministers. And I could go on and on like this. So sometimes it's good not to have numbers and pour, Prime Minister, pure wine. I do not want to discuss the specific work of this government and of the ministries here, my colleagues from the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club will look into this in more detail. Unfortunately, this is what is really important to the current government. And I asked myself what word this government really describes. And the result? It's a desperate word. Desperate is the position of Andrej Babiš as Prime Minister, who is desperate to convince people that this Agrofert is no longer his because he is in trust funds. And because his wife sits on the counsel of the protectors of both of these funds - they don't even talk about him at home. It is as desperate as the Prime Minister's explanation that the exchange of the Minister of Justice just before the prosecution is brought upon him is just a coincidence that has nothing to do with it. By the way, the word related is another enrichment of the political dictionary by our Prime Minister. And I must also stress that the position of social democracy, which seeks to convince the nation and, above all, itself, that it is almost against its will in this government, that it is the last democratic insurance and that it is actually a sacrifice from it. Social democracy is desperately afraid to admit that it has itself and voluntarily decided to play its undignified inferior role as a statist, whose sole task is to provide a criminally prosecuted prime minister with an alibi and the appearance that his government is a democratic government. In doing so, the government of this oligarch really relies on the support of communists and extremists, as we have finally seen in many votes here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies or, for example, on the election of members of the ČTK Council. It's just the last few weeks. During the desperate stafage, the social democracy received five ministries, and Minister Maláčová occasionally played such a fun game with Minister Schillerová about who would throw more money out of the state budget and who, when they finally come to an end, would tweet the first so that the minister concerned could add his mandatory political points. And when it comes to caring for disabled people, seniors and other needs, both ladies argue like bucks on the market. We all know that despite all the assurances we still lack in the semester, it is one billion to finance social services. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received many questions in the media before this vote, what good is it if the opposition does not have votes to voice distrust? But that's not the most important thing today. The most important thing is that people have really had enough. A quarter of a million citizens of this country have sent a clear message to the Prime Minister this Sunday that they have had enough. They know that the current distribution of forces in the House isn't gonna change anything, and yet they figured out the Letna. They came because democracy is a debate and they want to be heard. Another quarter of a million citizens were watching the PM's messages on TV this Sunday. Really, Prime Minister, do you live in such a bubble that you are saying very seriously here today that these citizens are destabilizing the situation in the Czech Republic and spoiling our image? The only thing that may be corrupting is the image of your face, your person who's telling us that it's gonna get better, and yet many people aren't better. And I'm glad, and it's great that the public isn't indifferent to it, as maybe a few years ago. And as our citizens stand and stand on the squares of this country, so today I stand in this House and will relentlessly repeat what we may have forgotten in recent years. That there are values that are more important to every country and society than money and success. That one of these values is democracy with independent justice. And that all the lies that we hear here and which the Prime Minister has raised over the years, for which he has made his grant fraud a problem not only his own, then his family, then his governments, and finally the whole Czech Republic, are now sticking to our republic like mud. They're pulling her down while she wants to fly and be a successful country. A land that will finally begin to catch up on that huge economic and economic loss. [[12.50 hours]] Colleagues, colleagues, we are here today to defend the rule of law. To defend the equality of citizens against the law. To defend the rule of law against conflicts with the Prime Minister's interests. We often hear the words that when someone wins an election, they have the right to rule. Yes, he has the right to rule, but not to rule the law. Guilt and punishment are not decided in elections. Whether anyone violates the conflict of interest law is not a decision made in elections. It is also not the election that decides whether there is a breach of the rules in the distribution of national and European subsidies. There is simply no vote on the law. The law either stands or it doesn't. We are here today, and let us all be aware, and we are not going to vote here today that YES - YES movement - must not rule. We will vote on one simple thing - whether the law applies to all alike, or whether our democracy has demoted since 1989 in the spirit of Orwellův's Animal Farm, that it applies again to winged "all equals, but some are more equal" In a functioning state of law, it is not possible for a criminally prosecuted person to become Prime Minister. It happened with us. In any case, we would spare ourselves questions and suspicions that we do not have equality before the law if someone else was Prime Minister for YES. Or is there no one in the YES movement? Is the YES movement really one man's movement? In a functioning legal state, too, it is not possible for anyone who has a major influence on the distribution of public money from the prime minister to be financially involved in these subsidies. The business group, which Andrej Babiš is still the only beneficiary but receives billions from European funds and ultimately from Czech national budget funds. Sadly, the government has not been able to deal with this obvious conflict of interests of its President, and until a preliminary audit by the European Commission has said that it is not okay and that the rules must fall to whom even if it is the Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister, I understand and understand those who voted for the YES movement because they were disgusted with politics and believed that you, Andrej Babiš, would clear it. The problem is, what you said and promised them wasn't true. And now you're cheating voters today when you say you're pumping people's money. You didn't make the money, you made it, and you paid it in corporate taxes and employees' taxes. And you're pumping that money into yourself, among other things, to your businesses that receive two billion subsidies a year, and yet there's currently one billion missing from social services. Even if the economy is working, you're not able to provide enough money for the needy. The budget deficit is being eaten, not to mention investment. Traditional democratic parties, and I also say this quite openly, have rightly paid the tax for their failure. But why do citizens have to pay the tax? Tax for bending the law, for a billion-dollar grant feast for your holding. Why should they pay for the loss of tens of billions of EU funds? And that's why we're here today. That is why we will vote on distrust of your government. And those who will vote for the fall of this government are those who care about the rule of law. Those who will vote against are those who, in the first place, do not care about the rule of law, but about your right to rule. The democratic government is not standing and must not stand over the law. For your information, Prime Minister, the 250 or maybe 280,000 people on Letná demonstrated for the rule of law - not against the outcome of the election. There was no question about the outcome of the election. We don't do that either. Whoever wins the election gets the right to run the country. But that's also the duty to obey the law. In the end, however, this is also about your rights and freedoms, Prime Minister, because you also have the right to a fair trial, whether it concerns your prosecution or the right to allocate subsidies. And you will not have a fair trial as long as you sit on your chairs - Prime Minister and prosecuted, Prime Minister and entrepreneur. It's better for you to leave the first of these chairs. I don't just want to criticize the first time. It really bothers us, and we repeat it over and over again, that here today and in recent weeks almost every week we solve the problems of one ball at our feet with the initials AB. Balls that are not just at the foot of this government, the government coalition, but the entire administration of our country. We need to address the alarming problems of drought, landscape care, natural wealth entrusted, and the government is not losing any concrete measures. The National Council that was mentioned here - what did it come up with? KDU-ČSL currently comes with the program package of VODA-SUCHO-LAND. KDU-ČSL strives for fair pensions, including for mothers who also raised children and have the greatest credit for the sustainability of the whole system. KDU-ČSL promotes an accelerated solution to the problem of 800 000 citizens facing executions. KDU-ČSL has proposals to address support for families, because, by the way, successful and high-quality national policy is the best pension reform. How do we deal with housing? How do we deal with social housing? What suggestions do the government come up with? Conceptual - another thing - conceptual, long-term and mainly predictable financing of social services. Everything's out of sight. On the contrary, when we look at the draft state budget for next year, we again come across zero funding for social services, so once again we can assume the same awkward situation as this year and next year. And so on and I could go on, take it point by point. Unfortunately, this government, the government of the ANO movement, social democracy and KSČM, is indeed the government of the pledgeors and, at the same time, the government of the delayers. Promise and delay. Promise and delay. We are in an absurd situation - let's face it, because in a standard democratic state it is supposed to work completely backwards - we are in an absurd situation where no concrete - fundamental - fundamental reform points in the field of education - we need modern education, we need to strengthen the prestige of the teaching profession, we need to improve teacher training. There's no such thing as government. Let us look at the question of execution, the fight against drought and climate change. We are in a situation where fundamental points are presented by the opposition, even though it should be completely reversed. This is what the government is supposed to do, and the opposition is supposed to come up with constructive comments. And so are our positions in European institutions. In recent weeks, I have been speaking personally with key partners within the European People's Party, and I must say that the current position of the Czech Republic, by virtue of our Prime Minister, is clearly damaging our national interests. It's not what the Prime Minister said. Some gestures within the European Commission, for example, are simply forbidden due to the conflict of interests of our Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. We all know that. The Prime Minister knows that too. And do you really think, Prime Minister, that the indiscretion on your part in the case of a private meeting with Manfred Weber is what creates a positive picture of our government and the Czech Republic in Europe? Ladies and gentlemen, we may not have enough votes today to voice distrust to the government, but I and each of us have our vote, and we can and should speak up and say out loud that we see something wrong here. That's democracy. That's a discussion. It's pointless to be offended, as Minister Schillerová did. These are the values on which the Czech Republic must continue to stand, because without these values, our country has no future. Yes, it is sometimes slower, more cumbersome and more complex than some authoritarian decision-making by the owner of one company, but in a democratic society such decision-making is simply not possible. And you, Prime Minister, do not like it. You don't want to run the state as a company, no, it was just another one of your lies. You want to run the state as your own - as your own company. [[emphatically]] And democracy is holding you back and bothering you. Independent press, strong public media, independent justice, openness and public control, respect for law, support for civil society are all values on which we should really stand. And they shouldn't bother us. Unfortunately, we need to learn words such as campaign, purpose, subsidies, manipulated audit, conflict of interest, etc. [[13.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, they say that every nation has the government it deserves. That's why I'm standing here today, and I'm saying that voting on government trust makes sense. I firmly believe that the Čech really do not deserve such a government. And the only question I'm asking myself today is this: What else must happen in order for Andrej Babiš to understand that enough has been done? How many people have to go out on the street to understand that he can't ignore them anymore and pretend that nothing's going on to understand that they really didn't go to a concert because it's nice out there? And what must happen in order for every Member who supports this government to understand? This government has had its failure built in its genetic code from the very beginning. It's the government of a criminally prosecuted prime minister, it's a government with the support of communists and extremists. By the way, the coalition deal was signed last year on the exact day of the 68th anniversary of the judicial murder, the execution of Milada Horáková. Today, after a year, on the eve of this anniversary, we are talking again about the balance of this government and, above all, the personal problems of its President. That is why we have dedicated the film Milady to MEPs YES and ČSSD to realise this symbolism. Indeed, this government does not, in our view, stand on almost any democratic values. Therefore, it can never really be successful and therefore I and the entire KDU-ČSL will make it clear today that we will not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u15	That was Chairman Marek Výborný. Before I give the floor to Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes from 12 to 13.30 for business reasons. Now the Minister of Defence, Lubomír Metnar, will prepare Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the work of the Government and the Ministry of Defence in the field of defence of the Czech Republic. Security situation. I do not need to mention much about the current security situation in which the Czech Republic and the EU and NATO are located. Development is not only very dynamic but also increasingly predictable. We are very aware of the situation and are preparing our strategic documents and plans so that the military can respond to all the challenges, whether as a trusted partner of the EU, NATO, and especially at the very level of our state's defence. Our government and the Ministry of Defence are doing everything we can to be prepared to respond to all threats as quickly as possible. The modern army needs modern equipment, equipment and technology. The government's programming statement to our department shows many important tasks, which of course we do. But the road to a strong army of the 21st century is not easy. However, we do everything we can to ensure that Czech soldiers continue to have a great name at home and in the world. This, of course, is related to modern equipment, equipment and technology that our soldiers need, and we need to get it for them. In 2019 we concluded 310 contracts, amendments to contracts, framework agreements, 125 orders and calls with a total value of more than CZK 13.5 billion on 24 June this year. Maximum involvement of the Czech defence industry. It is classified in our documents as one of the cornerstones of the state's security structure. The extent and importance of the Czech industry's involvement in the Ministry of Defence's procurements is mainly evidenced by the fact that from May 2018 to this day, 74 contracts over CZK 50 million were concluded with the Czechs - I stress with the Czechs - in total more than CZK 31 billion, which is more than 90 percent of all funding from the concluded contracts. If we shop abroad, we always strive to transfer technology to the Czech Republic and to involve the Czech defence industry to ensure security of supply throughout the life cycle. A good example is the current purchase of infantry belt combat vehicles. We received the answers of all four possible suppliers, where they confirmed their interest in participating in this tender and at the same time expressed their comments on the so-called. and often much discussed no-go criteria, which we now carefully assess. Of course, we expect a large involvement of Czech companies in the range of at least 40 percent of the acquisition price. The so-called integrator of Czech companies' involvement in production and maintenance and logistics support of vehicles throughout their life cycle will be the military repair company Nový Jičín, the Ministry of Defence of which is the founder and whose capabilities are strategic in this direction for the military. From practice we know very well how dangerous the consequences can be to create dependence on foreign suppliers, which can in crisis situations cause limitations or loss of defence as a result of the failure to supply the necessary military material or service. I would also like to briefly mention the fundamental progress made by the Ministry in the implementation of other core, complex and unfortunately sometimes controversial contracts. This shift was mainly due to intense negotiations and the resetting of some important processes. We achieved a significant shift in the project of acquisition of the MADR radar. Without treatment in deeper details, I would like to state that it is currently possible to assume the signing of the contract by the end of this summer. As far as the acquisition of helicopters is concerned, you all know from the media that the US party has officially approved us the possibility of selling several types and versions of helicopters for the Czech Republic. We still want to purchase 12 helicopters in configuration according to the requirements of the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic. I've officially accepted offers from the U.S. Ambassador on Monday for these 12 helicopters. They were for both versions. And then I took over, which is a lot discussed, an offer for, of course, the involvement of the domestic industry. These documents are now evaluated in detail by a team of 40 experts, and if everything goes well and this contract, this delivery, this offer will be advantageous for the Czech Republic, we plan to sign the contract by the end of this year. We count, as I said, with the involvement of the domestic industry, in this case in the helicopters Air Force repaired Malešice Prague. I would also like to mention that on 21 June of this year we signed a long-awaited contract for 62 wheels armored vehicles Titus. We have successfully completed a project that has been addressed since 2015. Our army will acquire new fighting vehicles, which will be produced in the Czech Republic, and will contribute significantly to the modernisation of the ground forces. I would also like to mention the defence budget. To ensure effective state defence, it is essential to continuously create a sufficient and stable source framework. We're increasing our defense budget. There are still milestones of 1.4 percent of GDP in defence in 2021 and 2 percent of GDP in 2024. This 2% corresponds to an alliance commitment approved at the NATO summit in Wales in 2014, to which the Czech Republic, together with other alliance allies, signed up. The minimum amount of investment in major types of technology, including related research, will reach a share of 20 per cent of the total budget in 2020 and will not fall below this level. [[13.10 hours]] I also like to mention recruiting soldiers. We're doing well recruiting professional soldiers. As of 1 June 2019, 25 349 professional soldiers worked in the Ministry of Defence. We continue to fulfil the commitment given by the Government's programme statement to achieve at least 30,000 professional soldiers by at least 2025, and thereby increase our country's defence. We're not even in the back of active backups. As of 1 June 2019 was included in active advances of 3 034 soldiers, with the planned number for 2019 according to the construction concept of the Army of the Czech Republic being 2,400 soldiers in active reserve. We're picking up an increase compared to a plan of 634 soldiers in active reserve. We are now two years ahead of this project. The phenomenon of a hybrid threat. In this area, we are also fighting against hybrid threats, when the Czech Republic joined the Estonian Centre of Excellence to combat hybrid threats in Helsinki in May last year to bring together EU and NATO states, to share their know-how in the fight against hybrid threats. On the first January of this year, the Ministry of Defence also created an organizational element for the construction of the Cyber Force Headquarters and information operations. As of 1 July, the headquarters was established. This is closely linked to the upcoming amendment to the Military Intelligence Act, which has already been passed through the commentary procedure and in the coming weeks I will submit it to the Government and subsequently to Parliament for discussion. This is how we respond to one of today's greatest threats, thereby fulfilling the commitment once again given by the government's programming declaration. Foreign missions. Of course, we protect the country and citizens outside the territory of the Czech Republic, when in 2019 we can have up to 1 191 of our soldiers in foreign operations according to the mandate, but currently almost 900 of them operate in foreign missions. Our soldiers are in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali, performing tasks in the Baltic countries and are also assigned to the fighting groups of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. We fulfill our alliance commitments and are a reliable partner. In conclusion - bottom line: In the area of defence and military security, the government is doing what it has taken. The military budget is growing as well as the number of professional soldiers and patriots in active reserve, major modernization projects continue. For allies, we are a readable and creditable partner. We are the sixth safest country in the world according to ratings. We set out on a road that has meaning and clear goals, and there is no reason not to continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. Miroslav Kalousek will now perform. Secretary Klára Dostálová will be ready. I ask the House for peace, colleagues and colleagues. [[Member Kalousek: Thank you for the floor, Mr President.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Chairman, I just want to make sure it's as quiet as the rest of the performances. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind the House, and particularly in this case, Members of Social Democracy, of a historical story that has fundamentally influenced the modern history of the Czech Republic. [[Members and ministers for the ČSSD are not present in the hall.]] It was spring 2009 and the members of social democracy, then the opposition party, called for a vote on distrust of the government for reasonable suspicion, there was no evidence, but it was reasonable to suspect that the Prime Minister's advisor was trying to influence one report on the Czech Television broadcast. This was sufficient reason to incriminate the government, and social democracy members argued that this is an entirely unprecedented abuse of power and that abuse of power is contrary to the attributes of the democratic rule of law, and that the government therefore has no right to rule. There was a vote on the basis of which the government of the Czech Republic fell in the middle of the successful Presidency of the European Union for this reason. I still think it was a mistake. To this day, I think we have a shame about this in the European Union. But I recall this because, ten years ago, social democracy, at least verbally, was extremely sensitive to abuse of power, conflicts of interest, and violations of the attributes of the democratic rule of law. Ten years have passed, and we are witnessing an incomparably larger conflict of interest, greater abuse of power and greater violations of the attributes of the democratic rule of law. And the case doesn't only take place within the Czech Republic. Believe that the Prime Minister's advisor's interview with the editor of Czech Television did not really interest the countries of the European Union or the world media, while the current conflict of interests of the Prime Minister is already of interest to all the countries of the European Union and most of the world media. It may be difficult not to care, because we have a Prime Minister who is criminally prosecuted for reasonable suspicion of fraud and damage to the European Union's financial interests, which, of course, is of interest to every taxpayer in the European Union. Why should an average Němec, Francouz, Fin, Holanďan contribute to the larger property of the Czech Prime Minister? At the same time, we have a preliminary report from the auditors and the legal services of the European Commission on the table, which clearly states that the conflict of interest persists here. I can imagine that there will be some technical change on the part of the Czech institutions based on the opponent. But I cannot imagine - and the Prime Minister also knows it well, and the Minister of Justice also knows it well - that we could reverse the view of the European Commission's legal service and the European Commission's auditors that the Prime Minister is in a fatal conflict of interest in drawing subsidies for the Agrofert Group. That is why I am addressing colleagues from social democracy again. Are you really going to be so inconsistent that that little scar ten years ago was worth throwing down the government? You argued with the democratic rule of law. And the current unprecedented international disgrace, in which no Prime Minister of the European Union has yet found himself, is it not worth it and do you feel that it is correct? [[13.20 hours]] What happened to you, absent colleagues from social democracy? Social democracy is the oldest democratic party in the Czech Republic and it has always been a state-law party and it has always been a democratic party. If you all want to stand up today and say yes, I trust Andrea Babiš, then I have no other explanation than that the word democratic is no longer so important to you, and you see this primarily as a social consideration towards yourself. But I still find it hard to believe, I still firmly believe that Members of Social Democracy will take a consistent position, and for that consistency, I offer that historical memory ten years ago. Does anyone really believe that the situation in which the Prime Minister's advisor tried to influence one public television report is comparable to the gigantic problem that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic has today and which is burdened by all citizens of the Czech Republic? He said here in his speech: I am Prime Minister of all citizens. I don't think that's true. He's the Prime Minister. But he's right about one thing. He is really burdening all citizens of the Czech Republic with his problem, in a very fundamental way. And, of course, social democracy can get citizens out of this problem or may not, depending on how consistent it is in its opinions and whether it means more to it the current interest of its own, or the interest of the Czech Republic and its honour and its reputation abroad. I understand that all Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic have been given a mandatory essay task to speak on how well it is and will be even better. I understand, of course, we listened with interest to the speeches. I just want to say that really, thanks to the extraordinary boom that lasts six years, we're really good, but this government hasn't done anything to make things better in the future. On the contrary, she did not prepare the Czech Republic for a situation where the economy will cool down and when, I do not want to summon it, but when the crisis can come. For the sixth year, we are a state where spending on a growing state apparatus and gifts to voters is growing faster than the economy is growing, while spending on investment in the future is growing slower than the economy is growing. That's the way to backwards. Even the outline of the large budget figures that the government has now approved on Monday, for the first time in history in disunity, if I am well informed, not all ministers voted for it, so the Minister is talking about a record 135 billion investments. Please, the record 135 billion investment is 8.4 percent of the total expenditure. That's really not something to brag about! The percentage of total investment spending was much greater even in times of crisis, let alone in times of growth, and 8.4 percent is not great news, it is a disgrace to this government and the path to backwardness! In this context, I would like to point out what I have said several times, that however much we have thousands of reservations about this budget, and it is a typical socialist redistribution budget without a vision and without a strategy, so that if the government finds the courage to release at least 10 percent of total expenditure on investment expenditure without increasing the deficit, we are ready to discuss supporting such a budget. But the government doesn't have the political courage to do that, and I'm afraid that when the government parties' negotiations are over, the total numbers will be even worse than the ones we know from the government's meeting on Monday. In the speeches of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, this government has been saying how strongly it is increasing pensions and reducing debt. For pensions, they talk about absolute, nominal amounts, whereas for debt, they are essentially talking about relative relation to GDP. And that's a pretty simple manipulation, please. Either one or the other. Yes, pensions are growing nominally, but there is also a nominal increase in debt. And if we take it relatively, the pensions are falling, because at a time of crisis in our government, the ratio of average income to average wage was 42 percent, while now falling somewhere to 38 percent, and, of course, because GDP is growing, so is debt. So either one or the other, Madam Secretary. Either pensions grow and debt grows, and it is true, or debt falls and pensions fall. That's also true. Depending on what methodology we use, whether in nominal numbers or relative numbers. But mixing it together, saying that pensions are growing and debt is falling, it's just a manipulative lie so typical of Babiš propaganda. I could continue the chapter from the chapter like this. I can vividly imagine what the Minister of Health and other ministers will say. I would just like to say to the Minister of Health that what has now come out of him that, at a time when he was Secretary of Finance, he was working with the underworld to seek compensation for his coalition partner, in Palermo's time, in those dark times of government before Andrej Babiš arrived, would be enough to end his political career in ten minutes. Everyone's pretending that nothing's going on today. What would happen if the Prime Minister was in a thousand times more trouble? So any act that is totally unimaginable for political culture, absolutely unimaginable, is actually fun in the face of what the Prime Minister is facing. So the Minister of Health can be at peace, even if he has a crazy shame in front of all decent people in the Czech Republic. So they won't go one step at a time. I just wanted to comment on the manipulation shown here by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, but the main reason we want to voice distrust to the Government is the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, the gradual liquidation of the principles of democratic rule of law, and the incredible international disgrace that the Prime Minister is doing to his country abroad. And once again, I very much ask all Members of Social Democracy to consider this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u19	That was Miroslav Kalousek with my performance, and let me read the apology. Between 16 and 21 o'clock, she apologizes for Mrs Eva Fialová's meeting. In accordance with the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, which was concluded at the meeting of the Gremia, I am declaring an hour lunch break and we will continue at 14.30 hours. The first to perform after lunch break is the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová. I'm interrupting the meeting until 2:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30, we will continue today's negotiations. In the meantime, there was another apology during the lunch break. Mrs Eva Fialová apologizes for today's meeting between 16 and 21 o'clock because of negotiations in the electoral region. We will continue in the order in which the speakers with priority rights have signed up. It is now Madame Dostálová's turn, followed by President Rakušan. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, thank you very much for the floor. I must say, then, that, of course, after I have actually listened to the contributions not only of my fellow ministers, but also of course of the representatives of the parliamentary clubs, I am very sorry that the opposition, in particular, does not focus on the work in the Chamber of Deputies. It is clear that we have many tasks ahead of us from the government's programming statement, and we are doing a lot of work very well. But these are not the tasks for us here, for Members of the Chamber of Deputies, those are the tasks that make our fellow citizens' lives better, all of us. At the Ministry of Regional Development, these are tasks which, of course, carry with them the improvement of the quality of infrastructure or of all the needs that mayors and mayors have, that is, within the development of cities and municipalities. And since some things need to be recapitulated, so that we can really focus on work, let me mention a few things here. I am, of course, sorry to hear that the government, the current government, is solving the Prime Minister's problems. Well, that's completely nonsense, of course. The government is here to work for the citizens, and I always thought, and we made a promise that we're all here to work for the citizens. As far as the Ministry of Regional Development is concerned, we are indeed a resort that has a huge range of partners, because the Ministry of Regional Development's agendas are really very diverse and wide. That means we've always been, we're and we'll be ready to work on all our agendas across the political spectrum. So I can say for myself that I am really glad that this is going well in many areas. Each of you specializes in a little bit of a different thing, and mostly those steps lead to the Ministry of Regional Development, whether it be tourism, whether it be the drawing of European funds, whether it be the needs of cities and municipalities, which means mayors and mayors. Whether it's building law, whether it's the Public Procurement Act, but last but not least, many of you are also dealing with certain stages of life associated with burial. So, of course, here too, you'll find a defense at the Ministry of Regional Development. So if I am going to talk about the most important agendas that the Ministry is in charge of, then of course, first of all, it is drawing on European funds. You may not see it as I do, because I have been in this drawdown of European funds for many, many years, it could almost be said that I am an inventory of European funds, because I have also experienced pre-accession instruments. But the fact that the Czech Republic is currently succeeding in exhausting, we have fulfilled so-called. the N+3 rule, maybe it's the Brussels rule, of course, but it's not obvious. For example, colleagues from Slovakia have significant decommitment. The Czech Republic has none. We're not returning any money to Brussels. The Slovák have a decommitment of 122 miles. EUR. That's three billion. Crowns. So please also appreciate the fact that, of course, we want to move those European funds in the right direction. When I talk about moving in the right direction, our only goal is to drain everything into the final crown. That is why we are not waiting for someone to peek and say something somewhere, but we are actively involved in the management of European programmes. We have already moved money from programs that may have some problems to the program, where for example. The demand is really huge. There's been a six-billion transfer. CZK from the operational programme for entrepreneurship to the regional operational programme, so that all kindergartens can be supported. We supported schools, increased resources for regional roads, increased resources for health care, funded all hospital equipment. We'll fund all kindergartens. And, of course, we're going to be looking for more resources, because in the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which runs the Ministry of Regional Development, it's one of the biggest overhangs of demand. To avoid touching, of course, the second operational programme, which has such enormous requirements for municipalities and cities, is the Operational Programme Environment. Speaking of sums, maybe the audience really don't know what we're talking about. Only from European funds for this programming period do we have 609 billion. Crowns. It's already been allocated over 435 billion. Crowns. And just for your comparison, it's about managing 233 thousand. projects. Just as part of our program, the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, we've already crossed the 90 billion milestone. 120 billion. Just to clarify the programming period, that is, all resources must be exhausted by this programming period until 31. 12. 2023. So we still have three and a half years to go. Of course, intensive work especially on finance. When I have a very specific conversation, and it needs to be remembered, it is important to remember the importance, so we supported over 800 km of roads II. and III. Class. We upgraded over 280 kindergartens, we purchased 644 environmentally friendly public transport vehicles. So I think we're doing really well. And besides, we also have programs called. cross-border cooperation, where e.g. on the program - and now I will take one Czech-Saxon, 99 percent of the allocation is required. The allocation for all those cross-border programmes is approximately 676 miles. EUR, which is about 17 billion. Crowns. Of course, if we pay the subsidies, we support the successful applicants, that's not the end of it. Of course, we are always right in that period where we negotiate a new programming period. We are currently negotiating the period 2021 to 2027. And here I am very happy because, not only here, opposition MEPs have confirmed that we are doing well, but the European Commission also confirms this, because we have so good economic results that we are already in the next programming period for the more advanced regions, but this will mean a smaller level of support from European funds for the Czech Republic. Therefore, we are working intensively with the Minister of Finance to ensure that even from national sources there is a greater volume of investment, so that, of course, we can match the differences. So for the period 2021 to 2027 for the Czech Republic it will be roughly 520 billion. Crowns. I must say that, finally, for the first time, and we have actually had European funds here since 2004, so for the first time, we have come to the European Commission with real demand for what the Czech Republic really needs. And what helped us do that is the National Investment Plan. Thank God we made it. That we have mapped the demand, because the European Commission, before the negotiations, or so-called. he sends the so-called negociation. country report to the Czech Republic, or actually report on how it is doing in the Czech country. And for the first time in history, we don't have a so-called country report. Negative priorities. This means that there are no activities that the European Commission does not want to finance. This means that we are really succeeding in promoting what our cities and municipalities are promoting. Finally, we will have support, more support, for rural things such as local communication. Finally, the word "senior" is not a forbidden word for European funds. That means we're going to support the infrastructure for seniors and others. I must say that we are very active in the negotiation of European funds and we have pushed through things that have been absolutely unthinkable so far, such as. the possibility of transferring money between individual funds. We were able to convert those between priority axes. We're good with programs. But to be able to do, for example. from the European Development Fund to invest in a social fund or vice versa, it failed, but the Czech Republic managed to negotiate this for the period 2021 to 2027 so that we could really respond really in time to the economic situation in our country. We also managed to negotiate VAT. It was a big problem if VAT was incompetent from 5 miles. EUR, it would be a huge impact on the co-financing of individual projects. So the negotiations really are very successful. [[14.40 hours]] We are also successful and leaders and, on 1 July, we are taking over the V4 Presidency for a year. This means that we will have a really big say in how to set up positions within the V4 for negotiating the very European funds. In what the Czech Republic is once again among the best and pilot regions within the whole of the twenty-eight, they are called. coal regions, or platform for coal regions. We succeeded with three regions right away. Indeed, none of the Member States have succeeded. This means we have secured support for the Karlovy Vary, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region and this support will be beyond the cohesion envelope, i.e. the money will actually come for the development of the regions. It is clear that we are not just dealing with European funds at the Ministry, we are preparing a new regional development strategy by 2030, because in the Czech Republic we do not only have the three affected regions after coal mining, but Jesenicko has a huge problem, Broumovsko has a huge problem and this is how we can identify individual areas where we should focus not only European but also national subsidies. It is precisely that the Ministry communicates so intensively with its partners, such as cities and municipalities, that we have created a completely new system of national subsidy programs. These are programs that the municipalities really need, and not that we in Prague think that the municipalities need something. They're telling us what they need. Therefore, a new Brownfield programme, therefore a new public space programme, a new programme and an extended programme for local communications, as well as for larger municipalities than only up to 3,000 inhabitants. That's why we're making new elevators to buildings that don't have elevators for housing policy so the seniors don't have to move out. Therefore the new sport centre, therefore the revitalization of public buildings. That's how I could name one after another. Indeed, these are the programmes that the municipalities are asking for, and on the contrary, I am in a position to see that the demand is huge and, of course, we will be looking for more and more resources. As for these investments as such, our ambition is not to add up to one date and we are satisfied, checked out. On the contrary. We must build an investment management system in the Czech Republic. Our ancestors could do it, really since the first Republic, planning was the right word. We've forgotten, but we have to learn to plan. The word "planning" is definitely not a dirty word. As far as housing policy is concerned, we have come into this very intensively, we have supported young people's housing, we have supported them especially in small towns and rural areas. Of course, big cities respond, but there is a need to go by supporting affordable and social housing. We've already opened programs here too, i.e. We wait for no laws, no other methodologies, we respond immediately to demand and, of course, grant programs are very ideal for this. As for the available, or rental, housing in large cities, it is precisely that if they are actually going to be planning and the municipality is going to renew its housing fund, it is going to be for those social housings that are going to be for example. 20% of the total volume, gets up to 100% subsidy. It's very interesting for cities. I am very glad that some cities are taking this very proactively, and we will certainly also deal with the revitalization of brownfields for housing needs. We are also developing cooperative housing. It is a phenomenon and it is of course necessary to work on it so that the demand for housing as such really increases, but also the supply. So, of course, if there's a bigger offer of free apartments or those possibilities, the prices will fall in real life. Speaking of housing construction, of course, I can't forget to touch the recodification of building law. Of course, the problem of housing construction is linked to the fact that we have an inflexible construction law. Yes, we do. That is why, of course, we have come to the conclusion that no further amendment will help this. They must really revolutionarily enter into this and build a new building law so that we can really get out of the traps that we've got ourselves into. We've got legislation, we've actually got all that related building law stuff in 89 laws. Yes, you hear me, 89. We made 49 round stamps. Of course, there are 49 possible appeals against these stamps, 49 possible reviews, etc. etc. No wonder we're in 157 places on these world ladders, which is certainly not flattering. I am very pleased that the government approved the substantive intention of the construction law on Monday, and we are really very intensively starting to work on the paragrafo version. Of course, digitization is part of the exact recodification of building law. And here is a thank you, and I am not afraid to say it out loud to the opposition Members who are working with us on this. We are not trying to politicize in this building law, because only and only if we pull together, so we can all, all of us together, look our voters in the face and say: we have finally done something about it and we are going back really to the advanced states of Europe. If I am talking about housing as such, it is also important to mention perhaps another whole series of laws that the Ministry of Regional Development is making, whether it be housing joint ownership, huge problems, of course, by the community of owners of units. We have prepared a law that basically deals with pre-emptive law, e.g. for garage parking, etc. This will affect more than 4,300,000 housing units of housing cooperatives and another approximately 1.5 million housing units in the owners' community. That's a huge bunch of people who are obviously hit by something that wasn't right, and we put it together. We can also pride ourselves on this, and it is still being challenged here that the Czech Republic does not have a strong voice within the EU. We won and won the partnership within the so-called. urban mobility. It's obvious why we took it so hard. The air in the cities is really not a stranger to us and we need to do something about it. So I am very glad that we, as part of the European Commission's initiative, are, as the Czech Republic, a leader in urban mobility. As far as tourism is concerned, I am so glad to be able to perform today. We are starting our holiday season and the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared an amendment to the law, where the rights of customers are significantly expanded. All people, if the travel agency has any problems abroad, will be sure to be entitled to 100% of the eligible costs. No one's gonna get hurt if he gives $15,000 for the tour that he gets $3,500 back. He'll get everything he put into it. Of course, these activities are a whole bunch, but I really don't want to usurp the space to talk about every detail of the Ministry of Regional Development agenda. Really believe that apart from everything I've listed here, we do real estate things, we do auctions, we do public procurement laws, etc. etc. Please, let's work, let's work for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u22	Mr Vít Rakušan, then Minister Kremlík, will take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic, we have heard many words here today, we have heard from the Prime Minister that he is a European politician, that he is a politician who represents us well in Europe. But the European policy has traditionally also certain standards of conduct, but certain demands it places on its policies. Please allow me to give some examples of when and under what circumstances European politicians have been resigning from their duties. German popular defense minister Karl Theodor zu Guttenberg in 2011 resigns on suspicion of plagiarism. The French Minister for the Environment, which is probably something completely unthinkable in our environment, is resigning because he does not feel good about the government's compliance with its environmental commitments. So that we're not just far from our borders in the west, let's look east. Minister of Education Peter Plavčan, Slovak Minister, resigned in August 2017 because he was suspected of a non-discriminatory distribution of European money. To the south of us, Austria, Vice Prime Minister Strache is launching a government crisis in Austria because it was recorded on camera that he met with the supposed oligarchs. [[14.50 hours]] But let's go back to the environment of the Czech Republic, to the period that the Prime Minister calls the period of darkness, the period of Palermo, the period of evil times for which history has gone by. Jan Kalvoda resigns himself after admitting that instead of being a master, he uses the title of doctor of law. Prime Minister Gross, who, following the discovery of the then free Young Front, was suspected of being unable to finance his own apartment - who financed it - is a big question until today - is forced to resign. And that's when social democracy solves the situation. The solution is that within the current government coalition, it comes with another nominee and then the government regains confidence. Minister of Industry and Trade Kocourek in the unpleasant situation of his divorce proceedings was suspected of diverting funds. And what did he do? He responded by resigning from his post. Prime Minister Babiš here tells us that he makes good advertising for the Czech Republic. He relies on the fact that people probably only read group media, only one that has an immediate effect on them, and of course he's applying it. And that they're not able to look at the foreign ones. I will take the liberty of short translations of what has been published in those foreign newspapers about the Czech Republic in recent months. Telegraph. Eastern Europe is blocking the climate agreement. The opening photo - it has Prime Minister Babiš on it. And Prime Minister Babiš has a quote there saying, "Why should we decide 31 years in advance what will happen in 2050?" Well, isn't that typical of his rule in the Czech Republic? Why should we actually deal with something that awaits our country or Europe in the future, what are the challenges here? Financial Times. The premiérův Minister's conflict of interest is a weight on Czech democracy. On the front page. The New York Times. The biggest protests have taken place in the last decade. The Čech are demonstrating for the resignation of their Prime Minister. We're still hearing here that it's some kind of hate campaign for that crazy opposition that's just trying to get Andrej Babiš out of his position. But we're not judges, we don't say Andrej Babiš is guilty, not guilty. We respond to the report that came to the Czech Republic, which is prepared by auditors, which gives us some objective, albeit still preliminary findings. But it is necessary to say, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of Andrej Babiš objectively exists and the problem objectively affects the Czech Republic, its reputation abroad, but also the functioning of the Czech Republic itself. There are demonstrations in the squares, and the Prime Minister said in one of his journals that he doesn't actually understand why the demonstrations are taking place, that he doesn't understand these people. Well, I was there to see and I listened to the protesters. I would try to make a brief translation of what people are telling him. First, the election winner doesn't take everything. The election winner doesn't have a patent on the truth. The election winner doesn't even have a monopoly on the right solutions. The election winner doesn't even have an information monopoly in the Czech Republic. Then the protesters say to him: Have fun with us, Prime Minister, talk to us. Don't just talk to people on the streets who want to make a selfie with you, and you'll be happy to give them a little service and then post it on your Facebook page. Have fun with people who don't agree with you and who were able to fill the flight plain this weekend. They also tell you that you promised a government of experts to solve this country's fundamental problems. The government of experts isn't here. You promised the experts, they're not here. You're changing the government like you're on a treadmill. You're not doing it completely, because the president clearly refuses to replace some ministers, even if it's not his place. But you, besides solving personnel problems, don't solve this country's problems. The protesters also tell you that the media are supposed to control, the media is not supposed to serve. In the Czech Republic, no one doubts that as the owner of a large media house, you simply have an immediate influence on how your media informs about you, your movement. Today, in your speech, you said that you do not threaten the public service media, that you do not threaten Czech TV, Czech Radio, what it gives you. What do you mean, no? You have the strongest MP club, and how is it that we still have unnegotiated news from Czech Television? Is it the evil opposition's fault? It's not. You are creating political pressure on the Czech Television Council. You're suggesting that there's a possibility that they'll be replaced in the future. Show me it's not like that. Put those points on the table in such a time that they have a chance at that particular meeting to be discussed, and convince the public that what you are saying is not phrases and speeches, but that it is a fact. Discuss the Czech Television reports here and show that you are serious about the independence of the public service media in the Czech Republic and not that you only talk about them when it suits you. You have said here that no politician has done as much for the Czech Republic abroad as you have. Well, I'd remember a few. For example, I would remember Václav Havel, whose reputation, the good reputation he built over the ocean, benefits your administration. Because this bond is traditionally strong thanks to politicians like Václav Havel. I don't know if you've ever heard the concept of Maslowův's pyramid of needs. It wasn't much learned in socialism, but you studied at a prestigious Geneva school, so maybe you heard. It's a pyramid that determines the needs of people in society. She's got different floors. And you and your government decided to focus only on the ground floor, on the physiological needs of the people, on the first signal, but you don't see one thing that the protesters also tell you. They're telling you that there are people here who have needs from the top of the pyramid. This, for example, requires self-realization, self-application, the need to speak into public life, to comment on it. These are the people who tell you, Prime Minister, that it is not enough to vote every four years and let someone win. These are the people who tell you: we have the right to our opinion, to go to the square, and we want to communicate with you and talk even at a time when there are no elections. This part of the company, Prime Minister, you don't notice. You are not Prime Minister of all citizens of the Czech Republic. You know, you don't get any major votes from this part of society. That's why you despise these people, even if you refuse to meet them simply. I would like to give one local example, I apologize for how your behavior affects social standards. A local politician, Vice-President of the Central Bohemia YES, Regional Investment Councillor, ordered a flyer for me before the municipal elections. I filed a criminal complaint against him, and it was discovered that the gentleman named Herman ordered the flyer under the name Jaroslav Havlíček and made up an address. The gentleman ordered dirt, a proven lie. A member of the ANO movement, the progressive movement that used to have a code of ethics that went up against other parties. But the Code of Ethics is shifting according to what the Prime Minister's problem is. So this guy under a stranger's name ordered a defensive flyer. I invited him to resign at the Municipal Council in Cologne. And you know what this guy told me? I'm not resigning. He forgot to say "I will never resign," Prime Minister. That would be a literal quote of what you're saying. You're a negative example. You are a negative example not only for your own movement. You are a negative example for the whole Czech society. And then some concrete examples of this government's failure. Well, where do we look? Where is the upcoming reform of the education system? Ministers change. We have the Third Minister of Justice, and the last Madam Secretary is on the move when your case is starting to go over your head. She's gonna get in at that point. That's how you triggered those demonstrations that logically turned against you. Digitization, the simple state you're talking about, and you don't understand it at all? The fact that Members - not the government, but Members had to come up with a draft law on the right to digital service is simply a failure of government in this area. That there is a solution to the problems of drought with the parliamentary proposals that the problems of agriculture, which is unecological, are being dealt with because it supports large agroholdings, which, once again, suits you very much personally, is another fact. We're missing the labor force, and what did the government come up with? With such a proposal of a foreign law, which applies a long-standing system of gastarbeiter. Western Europe has long deviated from it, we are now introducing it with a great pomp as a modern legal standard here. [[15.00 hours]] Minister Dostálová spoke here about the construction of flats in the Czech Republic. When else should apartments be built, whether private or developers, than in an objective economic boom? Why isn't he coming over? Because you've complicated the construction process. You are responsible for the Ministry of Regional Development all the time for the government's involvement in the ANO movement. The construction proceedings in the Czech Republic are not working. You promise a big amendment and do not reflect on the fact that there were opposition amendments that could significantly improve the current situation with building law. You, the YES movement, have blocked the construction of flats in the Czech Republic. And when we talk about social policy, I, as the mayor, - so as not to accumulate functions, gave up my mandate on Monday - have experienced your social policy in practice. Paying social benefits instead of creating social motivation and social incentives. Undefined social housing policy, when again you transfer all responsibility to cities and municipalities. And now that you mention it, maybe Secretary Schillerová, about how this state is doing well - thanks to whom? Thanks to cities and municipalities, which, fortunately, have their budgets still in order compared to the state budget. We are fighting here in an outrageous way by two billion crowns for the most needed in the Czech Republic. There are two ministers here who will eventually take the credit for finding the money somewhere. But we no longer see the person in the Czech Republic, the most needed, the last person who, of course, needs the money from the state. In conclusion, I would just like to say that this government, of course, does not have our trust because it is the government of the past, is the government of non-communication and the government of absolute closure in its own and only truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Pikal apologizes today from 15.15 to 17.30 hours for work reasons. Minister Vladimír Kremlík, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura, will now speak with priority. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, to the left of me at the gallery, I have noted one thing with my previous speakers. In two cases, it was mentioned that the government allegedly did not build motorways. I would like to prove that this government is building highways and roads. And I'll show you on the numbers. This government is building new highways, building city bypasses on the first-class roads, currently at a total of 243 kilometers. The green meadow motorway consists of a total of 132 km, the modernization of D1 is at 52 km and 59 km are new urban bypasses on the first class roads. Those are numbers. Now I'd like to show you the charts. [[It shows the chart board.]] Here you can see on this board -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u26	Minister, if you don't speak to the microphone, he won't hear you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u27	Here on this board you can see what this government is currently building. Red sections are projects implemented in 2019, blue projects are in the medium term. So please, this is how you all see them. I'm gonna leave this board at your disposal so you can all take a look and get to know what I'm talking about. [[He's taking the second board off the newsstand table.]] Here in red, the projects, which this year, in 2019, are implemented on Czech motorways and roads. I'll leave it on the counter again. [[He's putting the board on the newsstand.]] And I'd take the liberty of going on. What happened Monday, this Monday? Perhaps many of you know. On Monday we opened on the South Bohemian highway D3 another eight kilometers, in the section Bošilec - Ševětín. The total amount for this construction was approximately 1.2 billion. Crowns. Another 30,5 km is currently under construction and in two years we will have a complete bypass of České Budějovice. Isn't that enough? These are things that serve the public that serve all of us. Yesterday the ŘSD opened for the driver bypass Lechovic, on the I/53 road with a total length of 4.4 km. So I say, this government, the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways are building. We're simply building the way it hasn't been built in a long time. Many of us see it when it travels the territory of the Czech Republic. As I have spoken with representatives of construction companies, there is a situation where construction companies have no capacity, no people, no workers who could work. In the past year alone, that means in 2018, a total of 57.5 km of motorways and I. class roads were opened. Completely new were 12 km of motorways, rebuilt and upgraded D1 then made from this number 26 km and subsequently 19.5 km. What's going on? We're catching up on debts from the past. For example, remember all of you for 2010, when preparation stopped. How can we open new highways if the preparations for these motorways have been suspended? Even so, we can deal with this and we're moving forward as I'm showing you here on the spot. At the same time, we had to intensify the work on D1, where a total of 52 km of highway on five sections is currently being kicked in. And this year we would like to start the modernisation of two sections, i.e. a total of 19 km. A total of 90 km of highway, which is built practically new in the same track, is completed to date. If we hadn't, we wouldn't have been able to ride this highway. As far as railroads are concerned. Many of you remember that last year, the longest Czech railway tunnel was completed, the railway tunnel in Ejpovice, which is 4.1 km in total and which shortened the path between Prague and Plzeň by 11 minutes to 1.14 hours of time. It is now tested in the tunnel to increase speed up to 200 km per hour. Again, these are concrete steps, concrete measures for the public. Furthermore, the construction of the railway to Václav Havel Airport continues successfully with the complete reconstruction of Negrelli viaduct. This reconstruction is expected to be completed in the middle of 2020, 1 June. The construction of the railway corridor Sudoměřice - Votice continues. Modernization of the line to Hostivař is currently under way. This year, further work on electrification and capacity capacity of the line Uničov - Olomouc will begin on the railway with a total length of 29 km. Optimization of 15 km of line section Mstětice - Praha-Vysočany. Revitalization and electrification of the line Oldřichov u Duchcova - Litvínov. Extension of subways to Prague's main railway station towards Žižkov. We also engage in railway stations. A total of 102 railway stations for a total amount of 1.2 billion are being reconstructed or reconstructed. CZK, for example in Prague, in Havířov, in Břeclav, Přerov. Finished in Kuřimi, Sokolov, Lipník nad Bečvou. In addition to the reconstruction of the buildings, there is also an offer of unused railway stations, public administration and commercial entities. Isn't that enough? I'd ask the opposition. Here you can see clearly that we're building. Not just the roads, but the railroads. We have also introduced a significant discount on the fare on trains and buses for seniors over 65 years of age, but also for pupils and students until the completion of the 26th year of life. Our 70% discount took advantage of a total of 38 percent of children and pupils from six years of age, 36 percent of students from 18 years of age and 22 percent of seniors from 65 years of age. From 1 July 2018, it is possible to apply for a driving licence at any office of the municipality with extended scope. These are 206 places where a citizen can now issue a driver's license. Isn't that public service? The photo will then be taken directly at the point of processing. No one has to carry photographs with them. That's how we ended up with the paper photos. With the fact that we have to go somewhere to take pictures and not forget a photograph on our way to the office. Drivers can also find out when their driving licence expires on the Portal of a citizen, or they will find out the status of their spot account. From 1. 4. 2019 The vehicle register automatically informs the vehicle owners who own the data box by sending a message to the data box about the expiry of the periodic technical inspection within 60 days before the expiry of the technical inspection date. We also take action in the area of road safety prevention. The Department of Transport has prepared a campaign to create an alley for the paramedics. Inattentive driving or risk situation on a motorcycle. The connections to the alley for paramedics, repeatedly broadcast in the main news of Czech Television, Prima or Novy recorded approximately 5 miles. spectators. Furthermore, at closed circuits in regional hospitals and with practical doctors, they watched these shows for 2.5 miles. People. So this is very briefly behind the Department of Transport. Here I tried to show you all that the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, that we are doing. We're doing it, we're building it. And we build for our people, build for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u28	Mr. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura will be present, Minister Plaga will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens, I will make it clear at the outset that this government, where the CSSD is completely untrustworthy, does not promote the SPD's programming priorities. So we in the SPD have never given her confidence, and we will not support this government today, because it often promotes a completely opposite program than the SPD has. First of all, the CSSD has to leave. The damage has already done enough and enough in the past and continues to do so. That's not good for our citizens. However, we in the SPD will certainly not be associated with the Kalousek, Bartoš, Fiala or Bělobrádek. We don't need their advice. The SPD has its own agenda and owns its own policy. Our only goal is to push through our programme, which we promised the voters, democratically and on the basis of political negotiations. And so it will be in the future. I will be quite specific in my criticism of the current government. This government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement not only refuses to promote SPD programming priorities, but even deliberately blocks them here in the House. At the same time, the SPD has proposed a number of very necessary laws. For example, we have proposed a law to help people in debt traps, a law on minimum dignified income of CZK 12 000 for everyone, which would be linked to the poverty line declared by Eurostat's European Statistical Office and, from this amount, to merit, of course, only for those who have worked years. Furthermore, we have proposed for the SPD a law on the direct material responsibility of politicians and all those who manage public money and property, which would end corruption. All these laws are rejected by the coalition of YES, ČSSD and KSČM. We also proposed for the SPD a law to ban the promotion of Islamic ideology, a law to ban Islamic cover-up, a law on referendums, a law on the direct election and rebuttal of politicians, a law on the end of usury, where we propose to impose interest rates, so-called. RPSN, which will help people not fall into debt traps. This law applies in most countries of the European Union. Yet the government coalitions of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement reject these proposals from the SPD pen and do not design and prepare anything similar themselves. We also passed the SPD Act on Direct Choice and Revocation of Politicians, the Act on the abolition of EET for small businessmen and small entrepreneurs, with EET replacing flat-rate taxes, as is the case in Germany. That means taxes are due, but if we introduce a flat-rate tax for small entrepreneurs like Germany, the state will have its own, bureaucracy will not grow, both on the state side and on the business side of small businessmen or entrepreneurs, and now I'm talking about the small ones, the small ones, and they're all profiting from it. We also proposed for the SPD law to abolish the payment of copyright fees, the so-called OSA, and so on, for operators of health establishments and establishments that are not operated for the purpose of making radio and television broadcasting available. So by this law of ours, we would greatly relieve businessmen and small entrepreneurs. Even these laws of the government coalition of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement do not want to support and do not want to support the SPD programme. The SPD is also a co-president of the Act against Animal Abuse, a law on the great simplification of formalities and a discount in starting a business as a businessman or limited liability company in order to reduce bureaucracy. And we are also co-chairmen of the law to digitize the services of the state administration and others. But even these necessary laws of the government coalition of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement do not want to support us. All of our proposals are persistently rejected by this government. And this government refuses to talk about other SPD proposals. As you can hear, these are very necessary laws that would help decent and working people in the Czech Republic. We in the SPD want to end social support to the inadaptable, we want to end financing of political non-profit organizations, we want to end foreign expansion missions of the Czech army, whose priority should, on the contrary, be the defence of the territory of the Czech Republic. We also want to end the failed inclusion in education and nationalize the executives. We also want to push for Czech Television and Czech Radio to stop manipulating broadcasting and start following a law that tells them balance and objectivity. Of course, we would also like to cancel the licence fees and we would like to transfer Czech Television to a state contribution organization and introduce in-depth control of the management by the Supreme Audit Office, as is the case in many developed Western countries. But even our proposals do not want to support the current government coalition of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement. The foreign policy of the state, which is fully in the service of the European Union, is also catastrophic in the administration of this government. After all, Minister of Foreign Affairs is Petříček from ČSSD. The government supports migration and Islamisation, the government supports the adoption of a global refugee pact that allows and opens the door to further migration. It also supports the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. This state of government is the result of Prime Minister Babiš's policy, who is trying to sit on two chairs. The coalition with ČSSD serves the interests of Brusel and has no trust of citizens. If Andrej Babiš continues this policy, the voters' hopes of a fundamental change in politics will be thwarted. We also reject this government's proposals for tax increases in the SPD. Literally crazy are considerations about increasing the retirement age. We in the SPD say no to these proposals. These are all the reasons why the SPD will not support this government, because this government refuses to promote these important SPD programming priorities. That is why we will vote in favour of distrust, because we want to push through our program, we want to push through our program points. I think it is quite obvious that the current government of the ANO, CSSD and KSČM movement is not working well. As I have set out here on many specific examples, and I have set a long line of them, it is working completely contrary to the SPD's political programme. The increase in salaries and pensions absorbs the rapid increase in prices, this is the situation in the current government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement. The increase in food and energy literally crushes citizens. When the electricity bill comes, it's gonna get worse, and I think a whole lot of people, especially seniors, are gonna be in shock. All citizens will feel negatively about bad government policy. While in Poland and Hungary, the governments have imposed electricity prices at last year's prices, Andrej Babiš, ČSSD and KSČM bailed. That is why the SPD has filed a constitutional complaint this month about electricity prices, because we want to help people not to have to pay so much. It's an unbearable state. So the SPD is taking concrete steps to protect citizens from having to pay such expensive bills for electricity. Because in Hungary and Poland, governments stood up for citizens and helped them not to pay such expensive energy prices. And public finances are sinking. Now, in mid-2019, into a huge over 50-billion-dollar deficit. The government's reckless actions make governance increasingly expensive. It continues to favor the inadaptable. The government does not fundamentally address the senseless form of inclusion in education and does not conceptually address the support of working young families with children and the issue of financing pensions. How many times have I told Andrea Babiš that it is necessary to fundamentally support working families with children in order to increase birth rates, otherwise in the medium term the Czech Republic will not have the money to finance pensions. But the Prime Minister doesn't care, and pension reform is completely out of sight. And that's already in the government, you might say, six years. And rather, this government continues to support inadaptable and political non-profits that are useless. [[15.20 hours]] I consider it outrage to be the proposals of the YES movement for a large increase in the price of motorway stamps. The YES movement suggests that the price of motorway stamps should be increased, annual motorway stamps, from CZK 1,500 to CZK 2,000. This is another attempt to really tax citizens more and get money from people. The state of transport infrastructure is terrible and the road on our highways and roads resembles horror. The passageways of the cities are catastrophic and are accompanied by collapse. Repairs are carried out in a non-conventional manner and the same sections are managed repeatedly. Nor do I agree with the Government's proposal to increase the deposit fee to the real estate register from a thousand grand crowns to CZK 2,000, which means a hundred percent. The SPD movement promotes a fundamental change in government. The departure of the ČSSD from the government and the appointment of the government of experts nominated by the winner of the elections by the ANO movement. We will support such a government if we agree to enforce the SPD's programming proposals. As we all know, without the support of 78 members of the ANO movement, it is not possible to form a government in the current composition of the House. And it's two and a quarter years long before the election. We in the SPD are a constructive and positive movement. We want to improve citizens' lives so that they have more money, security and justice. We reject the constant fights and attacks that the ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN, ČSSD and TOP 09 here. They say A, but they do not propose any B. Their proposal would only cause chaos and destruction of the Czech Republic, because without 78 MEPs unfortunately it is not possible to assemble any government constellation in this term. This means that one who is constructive must negotiate with one another how to build a functioning government so that we can work for better citizens' lives. And the SPD is proposing in this situation, and we've been saying the same model for two years now, and two years later, Andrej Babiš hasn't heard it, he can't hear any other parties to back it up, so you can look back at your personal interests, so we can work for the citizens and come out of the reality that is here in the House. And maybe the next election will decide on a different composition of the Chamber of Deputies. But those aren't scheduled for another two and a quarter years, which is an incredibly long time. And citizens are waiting for us to improve their lives. And we at the SPD want to do that, and we're not going to politicize. The SPD movement programfully promotes the direct choice and recallability of politicians. We are pushing for a binding general referendum. Our proposals are rejected by the same politicians who speak at the current demonstrations demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Babiš. Politicians of the so-called democratic bloc, or rather a demagogic block, play a false game and only care about power. The most embarrassing role played by ČSSD, whose politicians support demonstrations, while ČSSD itself is part of the government of Andrej Babiš. Government posts stick to their nails. And he'll stay away from them. Politics of these parties is not about democracy and justice, they want to power, so that they can ensure further liquidation of the Czech state and nation in the interests of multinational corporations and elites of the EU. The SPD movement will never support a government composed of the sides of the so-called democratic bloc, i.e. ODS, TOP 09, Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL. If the ODS, Pirates, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD were serious about democracy, they would help us enforce our Act on the Direct Choice and Revocation of Politicians, and there is no problem with any politician who loses trust in citizens, and it is a solution that is legitimate and democratic. But these parties do exactly the opposite, and they block these laws in the House. I must say that the YES movement is blocking them, of course. Democracy is not a government without rules, but a democratic government pushed through the votes of citizens in proper elections on the basis of legal rules. But, of course, this is not what the anti-democratic, demagogic bloc wants, because it's afraid that people would call them off, too. The cause of the unrest is the conflict of interest of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who stated a preliminary report from the European Commission. We at the SPD will wait for the final, final report and the Prime Minister's verdicts, and we will follow that. Of course, any illegal act is unacceptable to us. So let's see what the conclusions are. The courts in the Czech Republic can and must decide whether Czech law has been violated. That is not what they have done to this day. And I know why I'm talking about this. Because it was the parties of the so-called demagogic block - ODS, Pirates, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD - that accused me of tunneling the Dawn in the past or accused me of denying the Holocaust. Or they said we were extremists. The SPD is not on any list of extremist parties. But all these charges were investigated by the police on the basis of expert reports, and nothing was proven, nothing was done, it wasn't true, it was a lie. And they also wanted to falsely and fraudulently call me off. So that's why we're saying that we're definitely not going to put up with the screams and dirty campaigns of these political parties, and we're really going to wait for the final conclusion about the conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, and that's how we're going to deal with it. Of course, if the Czech authorities found any contradiction with the Czech laws, that means that there would be some illegal influence on subsidies for Agrofert or anyone who acted illegally, against the law, and it doesn't matter if his name is Bartoš, Babiš, Fiala, Bělobrádek or Hamáček or anyone else, then simply such a person, if it were actually proved and it would actually be confirmed, cannot, of course, be Prime Minister. But nothing like this has been proven at this point. And of course, the big memento is, among other things, the case of former Minister Vladimír Mlynář. Because for those who don't remember, it was the Minister of Informatics. And this minister was even finally sentenced by a lower instance, basically to prison, hard, unconditionally, and until the appeals courts gave him the truth and freed him completely, and after his departure from politics it turned out that he was completely innocent. So we really do not believe in the current judicial system and in the current legal system of the Czech Republic. We in the SPD want to change it, and we want to change it in the direction of a direct democracy, introduce a direct choice, rebuttal of politicians, a referendum law. We would like judges to have a time-limited mandate, such as in the United States of America, so as not to be irrevocable to death, as it is today, but to strengthen their responsibility by a time-limited mandate, for example, for five years or for seven years, so that, for example, we have a direct substantive responsibility, so that we do not have to pay them, the million-dollar compensation for their misconduct. And that, by the way, applies to prosecutors. And that is precisely the strengthening of democracy, the strengthening of responsibility. Because we know that the legal system in the Czech Republic is working badly, and SPD voters are legitimately complaining about it massively. But that's why, after all I've said here, we just have to wait and we want to wait in the SPD for the final verdict, for the final conclusion, when I say it figuratively, with a round stamp, so that we know who made that conclusion and that it's really final, and that's how we're gonna make our decisions. Fuck you, of course. In this context, I will also take a short tour into the past. Let us remember, for example, Mr. Řebíček, the owner of Viamont, who transferred it to his brother when he became a minister, but he also did not hesitate to pass on the hundreds of million-dollar contracts. And where were the protesters or moralists from the ODS back then? Mr. Kalousek and his business with Mr. Háva are also a well-known chapter. In recent years, ODS governments, Kalousk People's Party, ČSSD and others have literally robbed the country, deprived citizens of billions of public property, and, oddly enough, no one has protested. Consider, for example, Karel Schwarzenberg of Kalouskova TOP 09. Do you remember the suspicion of abuse of mud subsidies when he used them for sand mining? And if, in another case, he was given a penalty for violating the terms of his Treasury Minister, Mr Kalousek forgave him the penalty. And that was okay? What certainly does not belong in a democratic state is condemned without judgment, without judgment, only on the basis of mood and impressions. This is a fascist approach that should be repulsive to all parliamentary parties and people who care about justice. I remember, and I've already said it here, just like I did, and I'm going to repeat it once again, as the sides of the so-called demagogy block have falsely accused me of tunneling Dawn and denying the Holocaust. And again, the police have investigated everything, and none of you have proved anything - and none of you have apologized to me to this day. Not even journalists. [[15.30 hours]] If I was talking about the anti-democratic bloc of Mr Kalousek, Mr Bartoš, Mr Fiala and Mr Bělobrádek, I am talking about parties rejecting democracy, i.e. a change in our system for citizens to take the lead in it and he can and has the last chance to break or accept the laws in referendums. It should also have the right to vote not only directly but also to appeal directly. The parties to the bloc of Mr Kalousek, Mr ODS, the People's Party, the Pirates and the STAN reject direct democracy. The pirát, who reject democracy in fact, are special in this regard, but in theory they say yes, democracy is fine, but the Čech are not yet mature for it - a big slap to the voters of the pirát. Under the leadership of the pirát voters, they voted for a party that promised a referendum, and then in the House, the pirát boasted that, on the contrary, they helped to stop the referendum. That's what I heard in Mr. Bartoš's interview. It is still clear that the pirát here in the Chamber of Deputies are pleased with the elitist view of the world and the transfer of power to the citizens beside Mr Kalousek and his associates. decided to block. And, as I said at the outset, the referendum law, which the government has consistently blocked, is one reason why we cannot give confidence to this government. I get it. I get it in quotes. Indeed, most politicians resent democracy because it means limiting the effective power of party elites. But we trust citizens in the SPD. Minister Petříček or Mr Hamáček of ČSSD, Pirates, TOP 09, People's Party or STAN would hardly convince citizens that it is right for the Czech Republic to give up sovereignty in favour of an unelected government from Brussels under the direction of Mr Juncker, Macron and Mrs Merkelová. They would hardly convince citizens that it is right to accept migrants and tolerate Islamisation, as they do today. That is why they are against a democratic, unlearned referendum. I will stop by this government's foreign policy, which is also one of the reasons why we cannot support this government and we want to exchange, change. Indeed, this government supports all the negative trends of the Brussels administration, as the Prime Minister tries to say otherwise in the Czech Republic. But we're not fooled by the SPD because we have first-hand information. And I'll be specific again. As we know, the European Commission has proposed migration quotas. It also includes Euro Commissioner Věra Jourová from the government side of the ANO movement, which I have never heard protest against quotas in the Commission. And these quotas have also been approved by MEPs for the Czech Republic from Czech government and non-governmental parties, while the European factions of socialists and liberals, in which the Czech government coalition parties are ČSSD and the ANO movement, are directly a leader in catastrophic migration policy. And, in order not only for migration, they are also towed by an entirely open process of abolishing the national states in favour of the Brussels bureaucratic pier. Of course, the Brussels Powers have said many times that citizens have no say in the elite project. And here, too, we have one of the fundamental reasons why the Czech political elites from both right and left block democracy in their own country. Because it would mean, among other things, the immediate end of their dream European multicultural superstate. These are, of course, the basic principles in which we disagree with the government. This is a view of national sovereignty, of our position in Europe and of democracy, which means a truly enforceable government and the power of citizens, not party elites. And for all that, for this program of ours, we just want to replace the ČSSD government to force the government headed by the YES movement to promote the SPD program with at least partial fundamentals to change the course of this government. We in the SPD are also fundamentally opposed to public subsidies for large private commercial companies - including Agrofert. We are against EU subsidy policy. The subsidies to private firms are crooked by the market and are a conquest of corruption. After all, how ridiculous it is to beat an EET businessman somewhere in the village for a few untaxed hundreds, which will eventually collect from citizens' taxes in the form of subsidies from a billionaire company. That's a really big paradox. Here I would like to remind you that the public-money subsidies, i.e. citizens' taxes, are basically all Czech billionaires, including Mr Schwarzenberg's Honorary Chairman of the TOP 09. It is by far not just Prime Minister Babiš. Remarkably, no one has ever protested subsidies in this regard, such as Chairman TOP 09 to Schwarzenberg. As was done by public sources, and from 2010 to 2013, when ODS and TOP 09 ruled, for example, only one Schwarzenberg company named ORLÍK NAD VLTAVOU, s. r. o. received a subsidy of 108 454 010 CZK. That means more than 100 million crowns. It will be fine, then, once again the House's extraordinary meeting on the topic of missing money for social or other departments - missing money for pensions, missing money for support, but also for disability pensions, to support working people with children - and when all former ministers and members of government coalitions perform here on that occasion and tell the truth: nice nurses, nice pensioners, nice disabled people, money is not, they got them instead of you billionaires and hundredsionaires on golf courses, hotels and other residences. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, the SPD will vote for distrust of the government. But not because there was a personal hunt going on here, but because we cannot and do not want to support the government in the current composition with the ČSSD, which promotes anti-national policy. We cannot support a government that refuses to accept many beneficial changes and which, despite all the declarations, clearly violates its pre-election promises. Again, I stress that we are voting against the government with the ČSSD, with the fact that we also offer a constructive and positive alternative - the appointment of the government of experts nominated by the election winner, the YES movement, and we are willing to support such a government, provided that we agree on the implementation of the SPD's programme priorities. Once again, as we all know, without the support of 78 members of the ANO movement, it is not possible to bring down the government in the current composition of the Chamber of Deputies. We all know that. And it's two and a quarter years long before the election. So either we bring the country into chaos and destabilization and citizens suffer even more, or we work to improve citizens' lives. And we in the SPD are a constructive and positive movement and we want to bring society together, we want us to pull together to live better, not to break society apart and divide, like others, including journalists and various activists. We in the SPD want to improve citizens' lives so that they have more money, security and justice. We reject the constant fights and attacks that showcase ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN, ČSSD and TOP 09. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u30	We will continue to speak with priority prior to the opening of the debate in the order in which they came forward. Minister Robert Plaga is next. Secretary Benešová will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's zipper or in the ping-pong that we are playing here, let us move back into a material, concrete area. I mean, if it's been happening repeatedly, that we may be missing modern trends in education or that our system of modern trends is not reflecting and that nothing is happening, then I would like to take the agenda of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports here and at this point, and he said that since I've been in the ministry as a minister, it's not that nothing has happened, but things are happening. And there are positive things that have not been solved here in the last 15 years in the field of education. Yes, it is also because the country is experiencing economic growth. But we had economic growth here in the past, and the resources just didn't go into the field of education. [[15.40 hours]] So if I take it bilaterally, factually and without any emotion in the individual parts that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports deals with. In the field of science and research, not that nothing has happened, but we have extended our cooperation with the United States in the field of scientific and technological cooperation and there are joint projects with a technological leader of CZK 310 million. At the same time, we have done not completely lightly, and this is putting into operation and supporting the most powerful laser research infrastructure in the world ELI Beamlines, a piece of Prague, in Lower Břežany, and the capital investment is almost CZK 8 billion. It's not just people who go to see it, but mostly researchers from all over the world want to work here, they want to work here because the machine is just one of the best in the world. And without acting very actively not only at that stage of construction, but also at the negotiation stage, we would not have moved further support for this key infrastructure. With regard to the next initiative we took in 2018, it resulted in a concrete result 14 days ago. We took the European initiative in the area of supercounting, and behold, 14 days ago, the Prime Minister and Minister Havlíček were in Ostrava, and yes, the Czech Republic succeeded. With regard to some soft achievements, it is precisely because we are speaking with other partners at European level for the first time in history, so Dr Hrušák is now elected to the post of President of the European Strategic Forum for Research Infrastructure for the next period. By the way, the first President of Central and Eastern Europe, which, by the way, is a huge success, and it is not only a huge success with all due respect for Professor Hrušák as he is, but, above all, that we have acted on this matter as the Czech Republic and we have been able to agree, agree on an international level, and also promote our candidate. As for European funds, which - a while ago it was here too - are being criticized, so I have to say that the money administered by the Ministry of Education - now I will feel a little bit like in the Cimrmany citing the occlusion front - but before taking up office it was sent to recipients of CZK 9.5 billion, yes, based on the logic of the program, and from that on the hard infrastructure, i.e. investment, it went 4.7 billion. After taking up the position, we have accelerated the drawing considerably - 13 billion is in investment and over 20 billion, perhaps already at this time more, because these are spring figures, for recipients. And back from Europe, 10.5 billion crowns have already arrived. And again, did something good happen? You're saying no. I say yes. Thanks to the fact that we are making templates that help finance regional education and many positions in regional education, we have reduced the administrative burden, even if each of us would imagine, and especially from the beneficiaries that it will be lower, but this simplified reporting is referred to by the European Commission as a pioneer and is likely to sign it into another programming period for other countries, because it is just good and it works. Regarding the area of sport, which has been widely discussed here in recent weeks, a few numbers and developments since 2016 respectively. 2017. In investment in sports, because it is often heard here that we have neglected sports, so the investment from the Ministry of Sports in 2017 - yes, even as a result of the case that took place - was CZK 86 million. In 2018, we supported investments in the territory, investments in cities, municipalities, bodybuilding and sports clubs for CZK 1,139 million, i.e. 1.1 billion. [[Nesroz. - the speaker was being corrected]] This year we are approaching billions of two, i.e. the debt that is here, and I will also talk about the debt in regional education and higher education, we are paying back. Maybe slower than he would have imagined, but to the maximum extent possible, given the budgetary possibilities. So often the criticism that goes on budget management is not entirely justified, because maybe if we treated many of these things carefully in the past, we wouldn't have had to put it out in recent years. With regard to another area that is crucial, I believe it is cross-cutting and not conflicting - sporting children, so two years: 2016 - 3 thousand clubs have signed up, we have divided 310 million crowns, this year 6 thousand small Czech, Moravian and Silesian clubs will sign up for support and will be divided into about 1.4 billion crowns. This is a significant promotion of sports right in those municipalities, right in those regions. At the same time on the line that goes to schools, from 160 schools, where 7,000 children played through the program Sport in school before my entry into office, so after my appointment to this period we expanded it and this year it will affect thousands of schools and at least 40,000 children. With regard to the promotion of talented youth, which is directly a programme that goes through sports unions and where we as the ministry can, unless we change the logic of the program, influence the amount and ask for those sports unions that are directly responsible for performance, and the coaches of the talented youth, respectively. not their performance, but ensuring conditions, so they want clear projects to do with them, so we also increased support three times, i.e. from 324 million to 900 million crowns, including significant reinforcement of resources that go to the salaries of coaches. And it is not easy, and yet necessary, even the payment of subsidies has accelerated significantly this year, so many of those unions, which have always waited until summer for the first money from the Ministry of Education in any time, got to the funds already in spring, respectively. during the end of the winter season, which, for example, in the case of winter sports is quite crucial. Moreover, what it is to build on, what I have just said in the field of sport, can be further developed through the National Sports Agency, which I believe we adopted cross-cuttingly here last week. So in the field of sport, not that nothing is going on, but the situation from two years ago managed to significantly straighten out, fix and, of course, the ball is now on the side of the sports unions, but also individual unity. We as the Ministry of Education and subsequently the Agency can provide resources, can set rules, but the creation of these specific conditions is on the clubs and on the sports unions. And let's go to school. In the field of higher education, I have been hearing for a long time, and there is such an example of it, and I have experienced it, when senior dental clinics came and talked about the fact that they once warned - once meant ten years ago - that the average is 73 years old and that the situation is serious. After ten years, they came in and said that the age average just moved up that way. And we were not lazy and associated with the efforts of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, with the very significant contribution of the Prime Minister, we gave the Dean of the Medical Faculty, then the Rectors, and we came up with an 11-year financial measure to increase the capacity of the medical faculties. And again, if we're talking about the government only doing populist quick solutions, which is what you often say here, then who's going to reap the results of this measure? The measure will take place seven years from now. This means that this measure is necessary, it has been known about it for at least ten years, yet it has not been implemented until now during this government's term of office. It's not small money, it's going to be CZK 6.8 billion more, but it's a key measure so that we can do something about the medical profession, but also with the professions of other and related things. There's been a long talk about supporting state-level PhDs. It was only during this parliamentary term that doctoral scholarships increased by 50 percent from 90 thousand to 135 thousand crowns a year. And of course these are the challenges, if I don't talk about the achievements of this government, but about the challenges for the future, so the reform of doctoral studies and their better targeting is one of the things that awaits all of us together, because it should be our common interest, as well as our entire education. I could also mention the second whole society very useful and key profession, and especially from the perspective of the Ministry of Education, and this is the support of faculties preparing future teachers, because not only the last part I will talk about, i.e. Regional education needs to be strengthened, but above all, it is also necessary to focus on the preparation of future teachers. This is not only about the attractiveness of the profession but also about ensuring quality education for future teachers. Before my entry into office, 40 million crowns went to this activity. The support has doubled and targeted exactly what is needed, i.e. student practice and innovation in teaching, including the fact that we have also directed European resources into the transformation of teaching faculties. [[15.50 hours]] Those are all the things I say here, and that's how it is in education, they'll carry the results over a number of years. Yet they are necessary. Teachers need to be funded. It is necessary to fund teaching faculties, a medical profession. First of all, it costs some money, and second, it confirms what I said at the beginning, that it is not that nothing is done here for a year or a year and a half, but a number of very good things have been done in the field of education, which may not be visible at first sight, but are extremely important to this country. In conclusion, allow me to stop by the carrier who is accompanying, and I am happy to thank everyone here that the topic of support for the teaching profession, the attractiveness of the teaching profession, teacher's salaries is the permanence of this House, regardless of whether we are actually zipped here in opinion, or whether this is about laws and other things. Average salaries in regional education are indeed rising. And if I now take the approved preliminary draft budget, it is clear that by the end of 2021, a government statement will be made that the average salary in regional education of teachers and non-edagogues will rise by 50 per cent within four years. This has never been the case in the past. This topic is important. I believe he's inconclusive and that the support will be permanent. But this is the key factor. It's expensive, but it's necessary. With regard to other measures related to the fact that we have looked at hard data on the lack of teachers, where unqualified teachers provide more than 10 per cent of teaching in some regions and it is an exception, which is very uncomfortable for the director and it is certainly not good, so we are also trying to lay down some rules for this, and this is the law on teaching workers who are here, giving it rules, giving support to the teacher through the director who gives him the teacher, two years of support over the adaptation period, and in addition the new person from practice must complete an additional pedagogical study within three years. This is another concrete measure that will manifest itself and must manifest itself in the quality of the educational system, but not immediately, not in a one-time manner, but over the course of several years. As far as kindergartens are concerned, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has been directly targeted and has a directly targeted subsidy programme to expand the operation of kindergarten schools, which means that CZK 1.8 billion this year goes beyond the standard funding of kindergartens in this area precisely because there is a teacher's overlay, and the state not only ordered it before, but this time we are turning it around to allow it, and now we are allowing it to be financed, that is, we are giving the resources and leaving it on the founders to adapt it to the necessity that is there. What awaits us from 1 January 2020 and where there is also a lot of work done is what we talked about here a year ago, and this is a change in financing regional education so that it is possible to increase the quality of education that you have talked about here in the future. This is a necessary step. And like everything else in the education system, it's not cheap. It is good that thanks to our teachers and school directors, we can be the best in terms of price - performance ratio. This means that what we are putting in the educational system is absolutely incredible what results we are achieving. But I believe it is our common interest for the education system to respond to modern trends and to get to the top. Like I said, it's a long shot. But I think that I have shown here in my contribution that this government is taking steps, they are well thought out in the field of education, they are in line with the fact that we want a political consensus on the future of Czech education as well. Therefore, even in this forum and at this moment I declare that I am ready, and I also think I am doing this, to talk openly regardless of the political party or the movement on the 2030 strategy and where Czech education is to go in the next period, because there really is no place for education to become a pure policy. Finally, I would like to ask you to keep as the House, or to keep as the House of Education as a priority for this state, because that is the great benefit of this parliamentary term, as I see it. But please keep the development of education outside of today's or any other muscle pulling and measuring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u32	Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from today's meeting between 1540 and 16.00 and Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes from 1540 to 16.00 for working reasons. We continue to speak to the speakers with priority rights. It's Secretary Marie Benešová's turn. Minister Vojtěch will be ready. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u33	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I also want to contribute a little bit here with my speech, even if I'm only in the government for a second month. As soon as I joined the government as a newbie, I was attacked. In fact, even the day before I got in, I was accused of working as an attorney, although it wasn't for my predecessors. I was accused of being even Red Marie, although I was never in the party. And I've been blamed for other things because they don't have anything good on me. Pretty much. Anyway, I don't feel like I'm a law bender. I don't feel like I'm the kind of person who's violent about justice in any way. I've never done this before, and at my advanced age, I don't even need it. Nor do I feel awkward as the Rakušan MP has labeled us nicely today. I don't know what his practice is, but I've worked in the D.A.'s office half my life, and I've worked in the justice field my whole life, and I think I have a lot of experience. The same way I worked in justice, I have experience that those who label me today have problems themselves because I remember some of them from phone taps. [[Laughter and applause for members of the ANO movement.]] But I don't want to moralize here in any way. I'm a tough woman, and I think I've done it many times in my life. And I'm also an old warrior, so I'm gonna make it to the end because I'm not here to bend the law, but I've come here to strengthen the justice system in some way to make it work well. And I know a lot about her, and I know where her pains are. So we're going to do what I want to do. I've already submitted a third amendment to the State's Attorney's Act in my life. Last week, I put the last one in a commentary. And many years ago, first. In 2002, I submitted a first amendment from my position as state's attorney, and that's when my right swept it away. She totally wiped out. I remember when Dr. Dundáčková said for the ODS, we don't need it here, on the contrary, we need the Attorney General to be rescindable and immediately. Dr. Parkanová also responded to the chair of the constitutional committee at the time. And, hey, times have changed, and suddenly we have races in Chuchla - literally - who will present the first novel happier and better, when the Supreme Attorney will not only be irrevocable, but will even give him 20 years of his next life in office and even give him that he will be uncritiful. So what do we want? Now I've submitted a third amendment because I've submitted a second amendment to the Rusnokův government, but it hasn't been discussed since the government ended, and then it hasn't been adopted. This amendment, which I have submitted and which I consider to be one of the most important, because it is actually being demonstrated, so it contains actually elements that have struck us by GRECO, so we are going to meet the requirements of GRECO, it is incorporated there. We are introducing a permanent term of office of state prosecutors for seven years without a chance to repeat - I stress this - because we have experience with this from Slovakia, as Mr. Attorney General Trnka almost stayed on the doorstep of politicians to repeat his position and tried to please him. I don't think he's the target. [[16.00 hours]] Then we have an appeal from the head of state's attorney that it will only be possible in disciplinary proceedings at the independent disciplinary senate of the Supreme Administrative Court. Furthermore, we have the minimum requirements for a senior prosecutor, where practice, experience, etc. is needed, and it is guaranteed that this government will not accept the exchange of leading prosecutors. Besides being incorporated in a novel, I made a public promise not to call anybody off, and since I'm an old school, I'm gonna keep it, too, and I'm gonna keep it. Yesterday I dealt with the reconstruction of the state for the second time, and because the reconstruction of the state was based on some bad data, which unfortunately our objective media is playing so that I actually dominated the selection committee because I have three people from the Justice Department and two prosecutors. But that's not the case, from the beginning it was composed that we have two prosecutors, two people from the Ministry of Justice and one independent judge. And I'm asking how it's going, or what's the panic when the independent judge is independent, and hopefully he's still independent by being on the selection committee. I don't think he can do that. So yesterday we agreed with the State Reconstruction that to make it even more strong, that we have the judge - and by the way, it is an element, a future element and such a run-up to the judicial council that is being called for because the judges want self-government, and I will agree to it, but it must be a step by step and a method of progressive objectives. And this is the embryo, actually. So that's why the judge. And yesterday, we agreed with the State Reconstruction to make it even more transparent, so I'm gonna ask, if it's gonna be the next time it's gonna be the election of Mr. future Supreme Attorney, when his mandate is over, I'm gonna ask the President of the Supreme Court to assign it to the judge, so it's not me and I'm not under suspicion again. Furthermore, we agreed to shorten the deadline, because I deliberately gave a deadline for the law to be effective so that this government would not actually choose it anymore, so that I would not again be under suspicion. It didn't like it again because it's too long, we want it fast now. I říkat, the Chuchli racetrack. So I made a deal with the State Reconstruction yesterday that we're gonna cut it short, but then, unfortunately, the Attorney General is gonna end early, and I didn't want that. So here's the thing, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm interested that the novel will finally pass, because it's a cabaret around the novel, and I want you to support it in the future. I'm sure there'll be some little things we can do. I'm sure there'll be a lot of comments about that. And I think that's the right amendment, and that's why it was submitted, and I'm going to fight to get it through. Then there's more business. I inherited from my predecessors, thank God, an excellent legislative team, and those people have a move on the goal, they have enthusiasm, enthusiasm, and they love working. So I'm gonna use it. I think I've caught them working for me too, so we're gonna start with the laws we have to submit, and I've only got two years to do it, so we're gonna try to speed up the pace so they're presented as soon as possible, because they're basically ready and they're actually working on it today and every day, that team is actually working there. We have an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, a Code of Enforcement, a law on mass lawsuits, a consumer amendment to the Civil Code, then we have a new law on registering real owners, an amendment to the Criminal Code concerning foreign fighters, we have children's debts, which I support to break down, and we have seen here in previous readings that I have done my utmost to do so, and I have changed my original position. So the legislation's working, and I think it's still going to be that way. When it comes to the next year's budget, unfortunately, we have it cut by 10 percent, but I promised the justice board that it wouldn't touch justice, it would only have minus 3 percent. More likely, they'll be looking for savings at their own ministry, and we'll be looking for them still undoubtedly in the criminal record. We've already agreed on how we're gonna do this, and this commitment, which we've been ordered to do, and I understand, I will. As far as other laws that I have not mentioned are concerned, of course we are also working there on the proposal for a law on lobbying, the bill on the protection of notifiers, and we have a law on courts and judges, where the situation will be similar to that of prosecutors. Even there I would like to have a selection committee, and even there we want to mix it so that it is transparent and once again the seed of the future judicial board. That's about all I'm doing for the job I'm doing right now. I don't want to keep you. And as far as the position on conflict of interest is concerned, I was a member of the last parliamentary term, and I remember when Lex Babiš was born. I did not like it from the start, and I suspected that this was not only discriminatory, but also against European law. In this spirit a constitutional complaint has been filed and the constitutional complaint is still pending. This law has acquired legal power, the Prime Minister has acted accordingly, meaning that it has essentially acted after the Act on Conflict of Interest has become effective in accordance with the law and transferred the assets into trust funds. Even beyond that law, he also limited his otherwise civil code by unlimited right to recall the trust administrator, if it is mismanagement. I believe that he has done his best to Czech law and there is nothing to deal with. We've got some kind of audit embryo here. I've seen a lot of audits in my life, and some of them were bad, they had to fix them, so I'm going to wait for the result that comes in the official form and be translated into Czech, and then we're going to have to draw up an opinion on that. I stress that the positions will be drawn up by the officials that I did not put in that office, but which I inherited, and I will respect their conclusion. What can I say in conclusion? The only alternative for the Prime Minister was to sell property or leave politics. He had no other choice. So let us ask ourselves whether it is really our intention that people who move in politics should be merely wealthless, or therefore we have admitted the capable managers who have the property. That's a question for you. I think everyone has the right to participate in a political contest, even the rich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u34	Have a nice afternoon and be next in line with the priority right Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and prepare the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u35	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal to say about health, I think, because we have done a great deal of work in the last year and a half, and we are really trying to make sure that health for citizens is moving forward. And I think that we have actually managed to make a whole range of positive changes, not only in health care, but also in the resort itself. For the policy of closed doors, as it was applied in the past, we slammed the door and opened the Ministry to the general public and the lay public, as well as to patients who are our partners in the preparation of legislative and non-legal changes. [[Nesroz.]] At the Ministry of Health, the Patient Board works very intensively, which is an advisory body of the Minister, where patients' organizations representing various diseases are actually represented, different interests of patients who are directly involved in changes to the laws, so that the legislation actually corresponds to patients' needs. I must say that this is also appreciated at EU level as a unique model when patients are on the same boat with us. We have also made the list of all consultants, all advisory bodies at the Ministry, commissions, etc. available to the public in the context of transparency. including its members and minutes. Until then, all of this was hidden, unavailable. No one really knew what was going on at the Ministry. We are currently preparing historically the first transparent and publicly available clicking budget of the resort within our open data project. We also stopped opaque decision-making on expensive instrument technology. We've revitalized the instrument committee, where not only are decisions, including justifications, now public, but also for the first time from clear maps, everyone can know where the device is. Citizens can follow the entire story of the device from the application to the decision of the instrument commission to its location in a given hospital. We also looked at savings. We have saved very significantly on IT areas at the Ministry of Health, because we have focused much more on in-house development, not on external entities, often very overpriced entities, which is also stated by the Supreme Audit Office in the past as regards the Ministry of Health and its subordinate organisations. But we are really implementing in-house development within the Ministry and only between 2017 and 2018, we have made this savings of over 26 million. Crowns. As well as savings in the operation of registers and operational information systems total 35 million. Crowns. So we're really trying to save money within the Ministry itself and not spend money in vain. So we have literally stripped the Ministry naked, to say the least, from the point of view of transparency. Although, of course, transparency may seem like a preconceived phrase, I feel that really all the steps that we have taken can now be very well monitored by what the Ministry is doing and so we are under much more control. I think state hospitals run by the Ministry of Health know about this. I think we all remember that not one ministerial check, the public administrative control of the ministry within directly managed hospitals ended with a criminal report, or even police intervention. It's clear that many people don't like it, that many people have been torn apart by their business ties. After all, I think that in the last few days we've seen the results of what's happening, why this is happening, because I really think that what we've done over the last year within, say, the correction of hospital management and the personal responsibility of a number of directors, that's basically never happened here in the last few years. And I think everyone knew what was going on, but no one really did. So we've taken a whole series of steps to make the economy more transparent. We have given clear rules for the first time in the history of problematic perceived back bonuses. No more opaque bonuses coming from hospital suppliers. Hospitals today must register all bonuses in a special analytical account, where you can clearly track what the bonuses have been provided for and what happens to the money within the hospital. That means, that's something that's really breaking in this direction. The rules are clearly set. And I think the honest directors are also very positive about this. And we need to remember that these bonuses are worth billions of crowns per year. Since the New Year we have also been monitoring unit prices for which hospitals buy medicines and medical devices. Also something that has not been completely done in the past in terms of some benchmarking and comparison of hospitals across. We have also refused to tolerate transparent procurement, and we have also set clear procedures and strict conditions for the first time in history, which is absurd, to me, to our hospitals in this regard. In terms of the use of negotiated procedures without publication, in terms of the use of various exemptions from the Public Procurement Act, which were used massively in the past, when hospitals did not compete massively, the Supreme Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out this, we have made clear the conditions under which hospitals are to compete. And if they use any such non-standard exceptions, then everything has to be clearly documented, everyone has to be clearly justified in order to be able to audit by the Ministry of Health. In 15 directly managed hospitals, we started a pilot project of combined purchases of drugs and materials and we already see ten contracts of savings in the tens of millions of crowns on this pilot project. I think that's something that was missing here, too. Central shopping, combined shopping, it's really happening now. Hospitals start buying equipment together, connecting hospitals that buy linear accelerators, when the accelerator one is in about 80 miles. [[Nesroz.]] Hospitals will now be buying five of these linear accelerators together. And we believe that there is great potential for public saving. I have also commissioned, in relation to all these measures in terms of transparency and the proper management of hospitals, that all hospital directors must pass security clearance. After all, this is also required by the Public Procurement Act if they want to compete with contracts over 300 million. CZK that they must go through this process, which is another anti-corruption measure. As far as the other areas we are concerned are concerned, one of the priorities is clearly the question of personnel - the lack of doctors and nurses. That's something that, of course, is a fact. It's a long-term thing. bohužel, I dare say that she is long-term unsolved, and now, unfortunately, we often deal with these things in five minutes of twelve. I think that no one in the past has really been serious about this, that no one has looked at how doctors, for example. they age, what is the structure of the medical population, where we lack etc., in what fields. That means, it really wasn't really managed like that. We've looked into it, and no doubt the situation isn't good. The measures that we have taken to deal with this in some way, even if this is an area that cannot be completely resolved from day to day or from year to year, if something has been neglected in the personnel area for a long time, then this is also being corrected for a long time. On the other hand, when it comes to wage growth, which is, say, the simplest thing possible, it is clear there that in recent years, including this year, including last year, there has been continuous wage growth for both nurses and doctors. So, in recent years, I believe that a certain debt has been repaid by medical professionals from the past and that the salaries have increased objectively. For nurses about 13 percent on average in acute bed care, for doctors somewhere around 8 to 10 percent. Of course, as I said, money will certainly not solve the situation when it comes to stabilization. We need to work to increase the attractiveness of the nurse's profession and strengthen her position in the healthcare system. It is important to start with young people who decide what to do with their careers, where to go to high school. We want them to go to health schools, so a few weeks ago we launched a big motivational campaign called Study Health, to draw attention to the positives of this profession and to encourage this generation of young people aged 14, 15 years of age to study in health schools and to get them to work for health care. Because we don't create these people, we don't print them on 3D printers. We have to get them to schools, we have to educate them and then get them to Czech health care. And it's working. [[16.20 hours]] I think that because of how the situation is really improving objectively, we can see that there is also growing interest in studying in health schools. Between September 2017 and 2018, the number of students admitted increased by a thousand. There are regions today that no longer have capacity. Others within health schools must open new capacities. So it means something about the fact that there is real interest in working in the Czech health care, there is an interest in studying in health schools, but as I say, it won't be right away. The Minister of Education has already talked about a major project, which, as he rightly said, is not populism, it is not a matter that is being dealt with for a single term, for which some points will be given, and that is the support of the medical faculties. There is an 11-year action plan to support medical faculties, 7 billion crowns. Since the next academic year, from October 2019, medical faculties have been recruiting 15 percent more students. They are prepared for this, even saying that there is again a greater interest in studying at medical faculties, which is positive. Of course, the doctors will come out after some time, so we have made this measure that we have done today clearly for the future of Czech health care, where neither I nor the Minister of Education will reap these fruits anymore, but future generations, future political representation, because there will simply be more graduates who will replace the ageing medical population. Which is something that really has been neglected here, and no one has looked at the fact that we have practical doctors here whose age average is 56 years, that we have practical doctors here for children and adolescents, whose age average is about 58 years. And that's something that, unfortunately, can't be solved day to day, we have to get those doctors, and we're really trying very honestly. In addition, we are also working on the reform of primary care, because that is where we have a big problem today from the point of view of the network of practitioners, practitioners for children and adolescents, in terms of getting new young doctors there, so that the work is attractive to them. That is why we want to give practical doctors greater competence, wider scope, to give them a stronger role in the system so that they are really the gateway to the healthcare system for the patient. This will make a significant improvement in the organisation of care, since really practical doctors should be those who organize care for, for example, chronically ill patients - diabetics, hypertonics, and others. And so it will, of course, lead to the fact that the profession of a practical physician, which once had a very significant weight, unfortunately, then to some extent degraded, will again be attractive, will enjoy the interest of young doctors. And, of course, this will also lead to the promotion of prevention, because both in primary and secondary prevention, practical doctors certainly play a significant role. We also want to support the new concept of residential places, or subsidies for young doctors in the framework of the presentation of the training. We need such targeted support for those fields we lack, whether it is in primary care or, for example, in primary care. pneumologists; in general internal medicine, this is a huge problem, here we have in a number of fields shortcomings personnel. That is why we want to motivate young doctors to actually study and focus on these deficiencies. In the same way, we adopted a regulation on basic tribes, which allows young doctors to return to the regions after their studies in postgraduate preparation, because we set the conditions so that most of the smaller regional hospitals could meet them and young doctors could educate themselves here and were not only forced to go to the large workplaces, to the large faculty hospitals, etc. That's what I think is very important, too. In order to support practical and dental practitioners in places where the availability of healthcare for patients is not sufficient, we have also started and continue in two grant programmes concerning both practical doctors and dentists, so that we can actually get them to those regions where they are missing, not to large cities, to Prague etc., but to areas such as North Bohemia, to border areas. And it's really going well. We have indeed started these programmes very well. In this way, the Ministry has already supported 51 medical practices of both practitioners and practitioners for children and adolescents, as well as dentists, in the total amount of over CZK 33 million. I even have a clear map here. When we look at subsidies for dentists' offices, you can see no Prague, but Karlovarský kraj, Ústecký kraj, Liberecký kraj, Vysočina, where there is a big problem, the Moravian-Silesian region, simply border areas where the dentist would never work, because it is not attractive for him. For example, Nový Bor or Rýmařov etc. In short, there are a number of areas. Upper Cerekev etc. Thanks to this subsidy, we got a dentist there, and the doctor treated patients so-called insurance. It's the same with practical doctors. When you look at all the border areas where we made a donation to practical doctors, we provided care for patients there. So we are actually working in this direction and in the network creation, targeted support for those regions where we lack both practical doctors and dentists. Similarly, this year, a fund was established for village pharmacies, where there are 48 million, with up to 80 pharmacies. And again, it's the pharmacies that are unique, which are the only place in any place, there's no competition. Of course, if they were gone, patients wouldn't get their meds. So this fund of village pharmacies originated, pharmacies draw from it and in this hard competitive environment we support small pharmacies in such a way that, for example, in the Giant Mountains etc. the patients got to their medications. In this respect, I think we are really very focused on the networking process, in order to ensure available care for Czech patients. We also want to simplify the work to the maximum. We therefore place great emphasis on reducing the administration. Last year we adopted an amendment to the Health Documentation Decree. A very significant shift that simplifies the management of medical documentation especially in nursing, for nurses, general nurses. Newly, this decree is more consistent with the real needs in practice, including the management of documentation that has been adapted to the type of medical facility concerned. Of course, the situation is different in a large faculty hospital and another in a smaller district hospital. So we are really giving the opportunity to reduce significantly the administration, the nursing documentation. Hospitals actually do this and it is very positively perceived by the main nurses and, of course, other medical personnel. I think it's a big shift. Also, since New Year we have been working on another administrative audit, an audit of the administrative burden on health professionals, where we have now completed an analysis based on the initiatives from practice when we approached hospitals, practitioners, simply all segments so that they can tell us where they see that the administration is redundant. By the end of the year, we will work out a really clear plan to demolish this administration. We are also preparing the electronization of health care, something that should also help in the debyrocratization of Czech health care. Electronization will clearly make it possible to reduce bureaucratization, bring benefits for patients, for doctors in terms of data sharing, because this is something we obviously lack. We recently voted for that shared drug record in the eRecipe here in the House, but we need to move on, we need to set standards for managing electronic documentation, data standards. We are currently working on the Act on the Electronisation of Health, which will be completed and will go to the government by the end of this year and by 2020. This means that the real Czech health care will shift to the level of states such as Denmark, Estonia, Austria and so on. I think that this is also a significant shift and that the electronization of health care is working very hard at the Ministry of Health. [[16.30 hours]] eRecipe is one example as a very successful project. In 2018, there were about 58 million recipes issued, and the system, even though everyone feared it, actually works and everyone got used to it very well. And I believe that they will also get used to the shared drug record of the patient, which will significantly help to ensure the safety and quality of care for patients who need medical care or, of course, doctors and who take a whole range of medications and, unfortunately, do not often know what adverse effects, undesirable interactions and so on. In general, we try to work on health care, which is concentrated around the patient. That is why we have also adopted an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act concerning only dedicated medical devices. This is, of course, thanks to the entire House, which supported this proposal unanimously during the last parliamentary term. This proposal significantly increases the portfolio of medical devices that will be newly paid to patients. Overall, the remuneration for medical aids will increase by about half a billion crowns. Above all, the number of medical devices will be much higher and we really aim at patients who are chronically ill, diabetics, children's patients who, at the moment, often pay tens of thousands of crowns for medical devices without any remuneration, and then have to collect lids and so on. Which I think is very wrong. So I am glad that this law has been passed and that patients will actually benefit from it. There was also a question of the payment of medical cannabis. Something that has been called for over the long term. Last week, then, at the third reading, the House supported this. I think this is a shift for a number of patients with chronic pain, with multiple sclerosis and so on, when it can greatly relieve them and especially need to reduce the proportion of opioids they are taking. We also actively address the availability of medicines. I do not remember that in the past this topic has been systematically addressed. We are really trying to find a mechanism to make drugs available both in the centre of Prague and somewhere on the periphery, because this is often a problem. That is why we have prepared a so-calledmergent ordering system, an amendment to the law, which is now in interdepartmental commentary proceedings. He'll be going to the government soon, and then, of course, to the House. The aim is for the patient to obtain his medicine if it is not available by standard distribution route, based on the responsibility of the manufacturer, who will be obliged to deliver the drug to any pharmacy in the Czech Republic within two days at most under significant penalties. We also address the issue of greater regulation of drug reexport in this proposal. Because we know that it is still a very interesting business in the order of many billions, when distributors take drugs and instead put them in pharmacies for Czech patients, they take them abroad and there they get a margin, some difference between the purchase price in the Czech Republic and the selling price somewhere in Germany or Denmark. It's very easy money. On the other hand, at the expense of Czech patients who do not have the drugs. That is, in this respect, we want to go the way of higher regulation. We also want to ensure that, in the event of a drug failure, such as a failure in production, which is something that unfortunately happens can happen in the future, we can make it easier to provide replacement, a substitute medicine, for the same supplement for patients from abroad, for example, within the framework of extraordinary imports and so on. I think this is also very important because we know that the availability of medicines is really a subject that is becoming more and more common. And I think that this comprehensive amendment is very well aimed at dealing with this, and it will very soon come to the Chamber of Deputies. Another big chapter is expensive and innovative medicines. We all know the medialized cases of patients where the insurance company refuses to pay for these patients, some very expensive innovative treatment. Through that Section 16 of the Public Health Insurance Act, we have undertaken a major revision of the whole process and the entry of innovative medicines into public health insurance payments so that these new medicines reach patients as soon as possible. That they should not be forced to ask through Section 16, because this is a complex process, often with unclear results. Therefore, the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, which will extend the availability of state-of-the-art medicines covered by public health insurance, highly innovative medicines and especially medicines for rare diseases, orphanos, super-ORPhans, which are currently completely unavailable, is, as I say, a very complex process. At the same time, this amendment introduces for the first time in history a transparent, consistent and predictable process for the decision-making of insurance companies on patient claims, including appeal proceedings. I'm talking about the decision-making of insurance review doctors, who are also often criticized. We set clear rules so that this is unified within health insurance companies, so that the patient can appeal and, in short, the patient is entitled to his claim if he is actually entitled to the treatment in question, to pay for the treatment in question, to receive transparently and without greater difficulty. This also involves the creation of centres for rare diseases, which are currently being created to offer these patients as much specialized care as possible to those who can actually help them. We are also moving strongly forward with regard to the reform of mental health care. Here I think that even the critics of the ministry must admit that there has been actually a great deal of work done in this, that we are successfully moving patients from those large psychiatric hospitals into community care. In fact, this way today, within the mental health centers that we started to open from last year - thirty of them will be open until the end of this year - so currently 400 patients from psychiatric hospitals are in the care of community centers. And we'll continue. I think that's something we owe to these patients, where these patients will be newly or already able to move in the natural environment, in their home environment, and they're being looked after by field workers, multidisciplinary teams of health workers, social workers, when they go to them, and not by patients looking for that care. And that is truly revolutionary. The centers are working today. As I say, there will be a total of 30 by the end of the year, up to a hundred in the future. It is, of course, a process also for a long time. In the states where it took place, the reforms lasted mostly 20 years. But we started. And again, it's something that may not be popular, that doesn't get political points, but it's imperative that we help these mental patients. We are also supported by the World Health Organization, the European Commission and others. Based on my appeal and emphasis on the quality of care, patients will also benefit significantly this year and will benefit next year from the agreements of providers and health insurance companies under the conciliation procedure. Last year, the historical success of the most agreements in history and this year is essentially similar. Indeed, a very successful conciliation procedure, where the agreements contain a whole range of positive changes, especially in the area of dental care availability, where we believe that the number of complaints from patients complaining that the dentist did not want to treat them so-called insurance policy will decrease significantly from next year to cash only. That dental care is unavailable. This should not happen next year. Even in the case of children's patients, when the performances of children's patients will be newly paid so that dentists will be willing to take care of them. There are also a number of changes in the field of practical physicians for children and adolescents. This is related to the reform of primary care, when patients will receive a whole range of new procedures in the care of prediabetics, obese children, consultations in the field of vaccination, and so on. There's a lot of that stuff in there. [[16.40 hours]] The government has already approved the proposal, which is now in the House, a bill that brings about a whole new possibility to compensate those who suffered injury as a result of compulsory vaccination. This is also something that has long been promised in the past, it has never been accepted, it has never been completed. Now the proposal is already in the House, which is under discussion by the Health Committee. I think that's a certain debt that we're now paying off. And I think it will also help to dull the edges and bring guarantees to those who are afraid of vaccination and also contribute to a greater degree of vaccination, which is falling at the moment. For the first time, we also develop palliative care through grant programs both in hospitals and in the patient's home environment. Today we have already paid for mobile palliative care and we are developing specialized palliative teams in hospitals. The project is already underway since 1 June. And I think it's a significant qualitative shift again, because the paliativa wasn't quite an attractive topic, it wasn't a sexy one in the past, it wasn't much of a focus. Rather, we discussed how to cure the patient, but we know that medicine is not all-powerful, that it does not know miracles and that we need quality palliative care to offer patients. This is precisely the aim of the projects that we have started and which are already underway, I think they are very positively perceived, and are designed to increase the quality of survival of terminally ill patients. So I think that's a big step forward, too. In addition to a number of other changes, we have also responded to the Constitutional Court's decision. The government has approved legislation on the method of occupation of health insurance institutions - the proposal will also be here soon at first reading - because of the inequality between groups of insured persons within health insurance bodies, as they are now occupied. We are removing this inequality and opening up the possibility for a much larger spectrum of entities to be involved in the operation of employee insurance companies. Not only large employers like today, but also other smaller employers, self-employed people and others, we are really giving smaller payers the opportunity to get into the management of occupational health insurance companies and also insurance workers, who will be able to run for office without distinction in administrative and supervisory boards. At the same time, we are preparing a new law on health insurance companies, a whole new law, a substantive intention of the law will be completed by the end of this year. This law sets clear rules for health insurance companies in terms of their responsibilities, control, and I think that the patient in particular will benefit from it again. Already today we are very much focused on health insurance companies together with the Ministry of Finance, when we regularly control them. Currently, the greatest control ever to be carried out in the field of health insurance companies is actually related to the basal obligation of health insurance companies, which they derive from the law, and this is the provision of time and locally available health services. That's something that insurance companies actually have from the point of view of the network creations, etc. We know it's not ideal today. That patients complain about the availability of care, etc., that they didn't want to be accepted by a doctor because he has a full schedule, etc. This is, of course, the failure of health insurance companies, which is why we have done a complete check on all seven health insurance companies in terms of how they provide time and local availability of health services for their insured people, for their clients. The audit will be completed by the end of the summer and in September we will present its outputs, including concrete proposals for measures, so that, for example, insurance companies actually monitor capacity. So they don't just follow the fact that there's a doctor or a provider, but if he's actually taking new patients, if he doesn't reject patients, if he has the capacity. If the capacity actually contracted by the insurance company is sufficient. And we will want health insurance companies to really follow up, so that we can clearly form a network that is consistent with the rules on the time and local availability of health services. Like I said, there's a whole series of things we're working on. At present, perhaps almost to the end, the great strategy we call Health 2030. Something in the future, too. What is for my successor, not for me personally. But I think health needs a strategy. It needs to know where to go, what to focus attention on in terms of payment, in terms of support. And that is why a large conceptual document is currently being created Health 2030 with clear priorities in terms of funding, in terms of the following programming period of European funds, from which we will really want to draw, for example. investment, urgent income. We want a clear network of urgent care, urgent income within hospitals. This is precisely part of the strategy, including the 2030 Health Strategy, which is now being developed and which will certainly also be put into public consultation. Finally, I would conclude with an important task for the future, which is complex, I admit, often raises big debates, but it is necessary, and this is a question of measuring the quality of health care. Quality is something that, of course, must belong to health care. Not only the issue of availability, but also the question of whether care for the provider is provided at a professional level, at an appropriate level, what the outcomes of the care are. And that's something we definitely want to do, we're already doing it in terms of measuring the quality of health care, when we want to look at individual indicators. We are currently addressing professional companies in this and these indicators will, of course, also go to the public opponentship. But we really want to be able to compare the quality of care within individual providers, because I think that is also what patients expect. Not only that they have a hospital around the corner, but also what kind of care they get there, what quality. And I think that is something that should also be a general consensus that needs to be addressed. So, ladies and gentlemen, so much for me. I think there's a whole series of things we do in health care. We've been working on them honestly for the last year and a half. A whole number of things, as I said, are underway and I will be very happy to be supported by the House, because a lot of the questions I have been talking about are not about political division, right-left, but really about trying to improve Czech health care for Czech patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u36	So it was Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and now I call on the Environment Minister Richard Brabec to speak. And the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová will be prepared. I will just repeat the order for Members to be prepared. After the Minister Maláčová, I have Mr Michálek's President of the Pirates. Subsequently, the chairman of the SPD of Radim Fiala. And that concludes the priority rights so far, and then I would start the debate. So, Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for him, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't think I'm going to surprise you with what I'm going to start with, and I'm going to end up with a little bit of a special circle, because what we're experiencing right now outside, and I think you may have noticed that now that the historically highest temperature of June has been measured in the history of measurement, if I'm not mistaken, since 1775, there are no better sets, I don't think the air-conditioned ones are here right now, but if the outside air had gotten here, it would probably have been a little shorter, our actions. But there are no better sets to tell each other what the biggest problem in this country is. And what will undoubtedly be the biggest problem. And that is how we can prepare our children and their children for a change that is undoubtedly here, which is coming. I'm always a little bummed when - it's been said here several times today, and undoubtedly it'll come back to you in your comments. I understand it's kind of a political cliché, but I think in real life, and I hope that we agree with most of you on that, and we often agree on that when we're talking between the two of us and not in front of the cameras, so it's always the most annoying thing when someone says that the government hasn't done anything in this area. And I'm saying, if those governments had done what we did before us, we might already be somewhere else today. Because the inertia of these steps, in order for measures against drought to start to work, is just huge, it's also decades long. [[16.50 hours]] And I want to say once again that the struggle with drought - I deliberately say no to the fight against climate change, because it cannot be fought, it is something that goes far beyond us, so at least the struggle with drought, and I do not want to say anything, is simply the highest priority of this government. When I came to the Ministry of the Environment in 2014 in January, and I've said it here several times, you know, and I'm sorry, I'm gonna say it again, but it's gonna be short, I started talking about drought, so a lot of people laughed at me about what kind of pointless problem I'm dealing with that doesn't exist. I think it's clear to everyone today what we started back then. We are facing a situation where for a hundred years the water from the Czech Republic or the Czech countries has targeted to avoid damage, and now it wants everything to be repaired in five years. I just can't. But in spite of all this, we have done literally and to the letter of thousands of concrete measures and we are constantly accelerating the implementation of the measures. Mr. Agriculture Minister, who's not here right now, so I can just say his commitment, but he has something to do with our commitment that every day there's literally a pond somewhere or a pond will be restored. For example, I can say that literally every day for the last year, maybe a year and a half, almost every day somewhere in a small village, we provide people with a new source of drinking water. So far in a year and a half, we've secured over 350 of them in 350 municipalities for 150,000 people. So 150,000 people-- well, you might say what it is against 10 million, but it's what, 1.5 percent, if I'm right, or something in that sense, but they're smaller communities that literally depend on smaller resources. And that's very important, because, of course, these big cities are connected to large water pipes today, and so far, I say so far, they don't have a problem with that. We're talking about the last year here, and I have to say that what was here a little bit, I think the Chairman of the Výborný, mentioned: well, what did the National Coalition actually do to fight the drought? Well, she did, for example, that for the first time - and I say why it didn't happen before, why, 20 years ago, some who, of course, have been sitting here in this House for more than 20 years, haven't dealt with the same scientists, who had warned at that time that the Czech Republic would have to deal with it and that it would simply take years, sometimes even decades. Again, we could have been somewhere else if someone had ever been that visionary. And I dare say that we are the visionaries and that we really have nothing to be ashamed of in this. There's been a huge debate over the past few years about what to do first, whether to build dams, or ponds, or wetlands, or water pipes, or I don't know what. And we're saying today, it's very simple. We have to do everything because something brings its effect in three months, something in six months, something in ten years. If we think about building a new dam today, it'll start serving in ten years, the bigger one maybe even longer. And we really have today, as I said, realized or worked out, or we're preparing thousands of concrete projects, how the life-giving fluid, which we've been convinced for a long time, is something that will always be there, always raining, snowing, as it does to keep the life-giving fluid here in the Czech Republic, whether in nature or in cities or anywhere else, how to delay it here, so it doesn't disappear so quickly. The Prime Minister spared me the work because in his opening speech he had already mentioned a number of our projects, which many laughed at the beginning. For God's sake, what's with the rainbow? We all had gutters, respectively. a barrel under the gutter, which is a more sophisticated project called dešťovka, but I dare say we've managed to make this water a social theme. And this was done at a time when it was not nearly so dry, when it had not yet been discussed with such an impact. Today it's easy, every day you see it on TV, it's the opener of many servers, many newspapers, it's something people care about. But we started to deal with it, folks, at a time when almost no one cared, because we knew it was important. And I boldly think that we brought the subject, I say, not just us, but surely the Ministry of the Environment has played an important role in this. As I said, we have a project called Rainbow for citizens, 5,000 requests, 5,000 households, we have money for thousands more today. We started an interesting project for municipalities, for which we have almost a billion crowns. These are just bigger projects where it is possible to keep rainwater in cities. I almost every day, if I didn't have to sit here today, I'd be in the field, just like I'm going to the village tomorrow, dealing with the mayor's specific problems of getting them water. So believe it, but you have many of you, and I dare say that a little more insight, because you are mostly in your regions, I have that perspective Republican, and believe me, I know very well what is bothering those particular people who are bothering those particular mayors and mayors in terms of the fight against drought and the impact of climate change at all. Someone said today that the government isn't dealing enough or that it's not. Well, of course he's acting. And here I want to say that I don't see any problem at all, on the contrary, that when we have a national coalition of the fight against drought, where really top scientists sit for the first time and we are discussing with them and they are with us and we have the opportunity to say things, sometimes even unpleasant, and there are some concrete conclusions from this, just like the Senate has created its drought committee and we are discussing it, so when someone here in the Chamber of Deputies has the initiative, I will be the first one who will, of course, be happy to cooperate with such a team, because no one has a patent on reason and, of course, neither does the Minister of the Environment nor any of the Ministry. It's great if we can exchange experiences. As I said before, the most valuable thing is that we offer solutions now, because if we talk today about strategies and concepts that we have in the Czech Republic piles and are in drawers for decades historically, no one will find water. Our projects do, they ensure it really and in time. It is not only about specific concepts, it is also about legislation. Very soon, we will be talking in this magnificent Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the Senate about the great amendment to the Water Act, which will be put here as the main gessor with our cooperation by the Ministry of Agriculture, and this will certainly be a great opportunity for us to discuss professionally what we can do in this area. The Prime Minister has already said here, and it's also not something that goes without saying, we have also started a big project for our field of science and research that we have prepared. It was approved by the government, and after many years, research and half of the money for research and innovation return to the Ministry of the Environment, half of which, almost CZK 2 billion over the next six seven years, will also be flowing into research tasks, how to improve the ability of the Czech, Moravian, Silesian landscape and, of course, keep water here in all possible ways, as I said, whether in the form of surface or underground. I cannot not mention a topic that now plays a huge role in the social debate and will undoubtedly play an ever greater role and is closely related to the water, and this is the subject of climate change and the impact related to it. We're having fun here, and there's a big, let's just say, activist debate. I had a great debate with the Fridays For Future students about a week ago and with other people, whether from the NGO sphere or with teachers, and there I realized again something that doesn't surprise me so much - that the biggest problem is perhaps in ignorance and in ignorance, what the other party has prepared and what is actually being done. Because it's a quick simplification: you're not doing anything. Then you ask, "Do you know what we do?" He says, well, we don't know, but you're not doing anything. And that's something I understand with the students, because if I was 20 years old today - that was a beautiful time - I might have been there with them, too, because I say, I have nothing against it, what the students were doing so far was very funny, it was such a set mirror, and I always said, I'd be happy to come to high school, elementary, college, and defend what the Czech government is doing in that thing today. [[17,00 hours]] This is where it shrunk, forgive my word, just to discuss whether we will achieve carbon neutrality in 2050 or not, or when we will achieve it. If you ask a hundred percent of people today, but I think that even people who have some more professional education for it, what this carbon neutrality is, I dare say that a large majority will not know at all. But in spite of all this, we say: but we want it. We want it by 2050 at the latest. And I think it's very serious to say when we're throwing some percentages and some years of what's behind it. And here I see the difference between the government's approach, which, when it promises something or if it commits to something, like we're fulfilling our commitments to the Paris Agreement, just like we're fulfilling our commitments to the climate-energy package, it just wants to know what it's going to mean to those people. Because we're influencing and we're going to influence the lives of ten million people, all the people in this state, because, folks, I'm happy to do a seminar on that someday. And by the way, by this time, at the latest in mid- or mid-September, we want to hold such a large climate conference, perhaps even in the Chamber of Deputies, but we will still agree on where we want to introduce some concepts, whether the mitigative ones, i.e. the mitigation of impacts, or the reduction of CO2 emissions, as well as how some other states are fighting with this so-called fight. So I would very much like to have the political debate about who actually said it first and what it actually means to focus on what it really will mean to the citizens of the Czech Republic. How much is it going to cost, because it's going to be hundreds of billions of crowns and hundreds of thousands of people, like employment, it's going to mean that our lives are going to change completely. Just for the record, if this were the case, by 2050, it would no longer be possible to drown not only with coal, but probably with gas. Of course, we will not be able to drive any means of transport, not just passenger cars, but any means of transport, including probably aircraft, which is for anything other than hydrogen or any other propulsion. It will mean a significant change, some sectors of industry will disappear completely because it will not hold. This will mean significant impacts on agriculture. It will mean significant impacts on everything. And I consider it serious when a politician says that one day he would like to tell the nation what it will mean for him. And it's not just that we pick up some banner and say, we can do it in 2050 at any cost. Unfortunately, this has sometimes happened in the European Parliament that someone from the European Commission came up with a number and there someone said: no, no, no, it will not be 20 percent, we want 30 percent. We don't know what the consequences will be... And, of course, we're also talking about the fact that we know there must be some global solidarity here. I look forward very much to the debate that will be in New York in September at the climate summit and then at the climate conference at the end of the year. I'm saying it here because we're often, let's just say, attacked that nothing's going on. And I say, a lot of things happen. Maybe we're talking less about them because we're really doing them in the mitification part, not just in adaptation, that's what the students blamed us for. They said you're adapting, but you have to make sure it doesn't happen. And we're just saying, but, folks, we have to prepare for this to happen even if we break. It could be that we don't have it in our hands. We have the adaptation measures in hand to prepare this country for climate change, which is happening. But we have a limited hand in how we will ensure that climate change does not continue. And that's the main debate. This is very serious, it is very professional, it is partly political, but it should ideally take place really as if we are going to call ourselves those scenarios and we are going to think, we are ready for them or we are not ready for them. And I consider that serious. It's not even hypocritical, it's not even selfish, it's just responsible. And I think it's important. I don't want to hold up much longer. A whole bunch of things have fallen. My colleague Havlíček spoke about the coal commission that we are setting up together and we will lead it, which will soon start working, we expect in July, and should actually give the government some suggestions on how the Czech Republic can step away from fossil fuels, especially from coal, and what that will mean in some foreseeable time. It has already been said that, of course, we have successful projects such as tens of thousands of households, which thanks to the New Green Savings project or Kotlíková subsidies not only improved the environment, reduced CO2 emissions, but also other pollutants, but also saved a lot of money. We have a great project that I have already talked about because if something can save us in the future, because if you look at how we are able to eliminate carbon or reduce carbon emissions, then either we will, of course, significantly change the structure of the entire country, but it can help us to increase the take-up, that is, carbon absorption. And that's what a perfectly natural air conditioner called trees can do. That is why we are preparing, and thank you for the Partnership Foundation for preparing together an amazing project of 10 million trees that we want to plant outside the forest in the coming years. It's so symbolic, it should be connecting. There are a lot of things that divide us today, so sometimes I think it's useless. We would love to be joined by planting trees. We want to fool the republic so that for every person, for every citizen of the Czech Republic one tree, at least one tree, was planted. And it's something that can save us. Australan and others want to plant hundreds of millions of trees, literally billions of trees or hundreds of millions of trees in China. And we, unfortunately, now that we're facing the biggest pest disaster, especially crust or spruce scrubbers, to be exact, these crusts are about 130 species, obviously we're losing these trees massively. And today we are at the doorstep of a completely new face of the Czech landscape. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic will look quite different, but unfortunately we must, let's say what is happening, use everything bad as a system is for something good, as for a new beginning, as our forests should look to be durable in the future. This is something that we are working intensively on today, which is, above all, the protection of the Minister of Agriculture, but perhaps I can also say for him that we also have a significant share in this. I'm gonna skip a bunch of things I've had here because I know you're already waiting for more of your contributions. I wanted to focus -- maybe I'll say one more thing, then I'll be on my way to a conclusion. There's also a lot of talk about waste. We too very soon, in autumn, will get to this House a brand new waste legislation, which will focus on significant changes and will also affect millions of people. That's why sometimes, we're also blamed for waiting a long time with her, and if, of course, we hadn't prepared her for discussion, we'd be criticized for rushing her. So we've been waiting for the European circulation package to work on it. And I look forward to the debate that will be here. I dare say that today we are in agreement with the main groups, the main players, which is primarily the Union of Cities and Communities, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry, the Association of Regions and others, those who actually decide on the main waste, or the main waste streams. And I'm sure we'll set it all up together. We started, above all, with plastic waste, literally fooling around on a quadrat like humanity. The good servant has become a bad master. And today we're swamped with waste, although the images you see today are appalling, which you see today from the world's oceans, so if I remember the statistics well, what ends in the world's oceans comes from Europe only about one and a half percent. About 85 percent of it comes from Asia, which means theoretically, we could say we can't save it. But we certainly don't tell each other that. This means that Europe and, together with the Czech Republic, are fundamentally against the trend of disposable plastics. So, before the relatively hard measures against disposable plastics take place, which, at the latest in 2021, prohibit the production and placing on the market in a number of cases, we have a very successful project campaign Enough plastics, which has been approached by a number of companies and cities, and begin replacing disposable plastics with repeated or repeatedly usable plastics, so that we can return again in some time, and I hope that we can gradually also clean it up, it will be easier with us, far worse it will be with some other countries and especially with the world oceans. [[17.10 hours]] I have skipped, my fellow Members, a whole series of things that I wanted to talk about here. I think there's still a chance, but let me conclude with a certain... maybe a summary of what I wanted to say. I repeat, what I would value most and what seems awful important to me is that through political differences, and we all know that sometimes we can argue about a word about whether or not to be there, and whether whoever said it, so whether or not he meant it - so it would be great that at least in the one thing that I dare say is not political, is purely technical, is factual and is extremely important, it is a matter of the highest public interest of this state, so that we do not stay dry and prepare the country for something that is happening really already, what is not looking at in ten, twenty years, thirty years what will happen. It's happening really, and we can see it behind our windows and experience it literally on our own. In order to bridge these disputes that divide us, and at least on this one thing we can connect, because even if we're connected, it's still, let's say, the minimum we can do to ensure that all the personnel and financial capacities we have at our disposal throw some common ground so that we literally don't stay dry. I'm always prepared in this case for any proposal that goes from any side to include it in our materials, because I say again, it is not, and maybe my colleagues won't agree with me, because we each have our own, our resort, but I dare say that there is no more important topic for this country than staying dry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u38	This was the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, and I now request the speech of the President of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek and the chair of the SPD Ing will be prepared. Radim Fiala. That would therefore end all the priority rights, and then we would open the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have divided this time into individual departments so that we can confront ministers with their results. And speaking of results, I do not mean, as the Prime Minister says, that they have designated a coordinator for the digital economy or ICT, that they have compiled a document that we have a project that prepares planting trees, as it has said here, that something is being spoken of, etc., in short, what has been done in the area and what has been reflected in practice, so that individual people can appreciate it. I will specifically focus on the area of justice, which I consider to be very important, even because, according to the public opinion poll conducted by CVVM, 90 percent of people consider the important issue of corruption and the fight against economic crime. It is the largest share of all the topics examined in the survey. That is why we see that people consider these topics important, and she falls into the Justice Department, and I think we should confront the way in which the government progresses in the Justice Department in addressing these issues. Of course, we are presenting our alternative to transparent justice in due time. We're running the judge's card project. Although we're in opposition and we don't have 500 officials as the Treasury Department, we do it on our knees, as we say, but with enthusiasm. And, of course, we are also inspired in foreign countries, such as the Netherlands, Austria, Finland, Denmark, where the justice system works significantly better than in our country. We all know, and the government has put it in their programming statement that lobbying and whistleblowing are needed. Although it was in the government's legislative plan for the previous year, not for the previous year, but for the previous year, the government did not make these two fundamental laws. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has performed here and said how important it is for us to have these laws, but unfortunately, the government has not submitted these proposals. That's an objective result. It was included in the legislative plan for 2018 with the deadline in December last year, and we do not have the laws here until now. We, as opposition, are trying to do our utmost in this anti-corruption thing. As you know, we have an OKD committee here to finish this vacation, so they're going to release the results. We also filed, as the Prime Minister called on us, a criminal complaint in the case of CEZ, where investment in the power plant in Varna cost us CZK 8.5 billion. We have submitted our own bill to the State's Attorney's office to finally depolitize the state's attorney. Unfortunately, the government only has it in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and the promised term that the law will go to the government in June will almost certainly not be able to make it. We also have a proposal for a transparent selection of judges. And what I consider to be the most important and what we should try to do across the political spectrum is to focus on the quality of judicial decision-making and the quality of the prosecutor's work, so that there are no cases such as today's David Rath case, that after a long and long time since 2012 in 2019, seven years from now, we have a verdict here as a result of the fact that the matter has been pinged back and forth between the city court and the high priest, the regional court and the high priest. So the quality system is something that hasn't worked out of the five years that YES sits at the Justice Department, not even a comma. Repeated recovery of cases, length of proceedings, which are not addressed particularly in those politically exposed cases, I think that is a big problem, and here we should really inspire ourselves, for example, from the Netherlands, where they already know what to do about it. Another example of what we would have done if we had the Justice Department in mind is digitalization. Just so that the court heads have data on how their court works, who judges do well and who judges do not do well, and that when choosing the new court heads, the members of the selection committees appointed by the Ministry are able to assess whether or not the person is prepared to present a project for the court on the basis of data. Today it is not chosen in this way, today it is chosen only by the chairman of the superior court and the ministry is basically in the tow of those regional courts and is in no way reflected in the quality of the selection of the new chiefs of courts and judges. The influence is minimal. I've even heard stories about when someone's chosen to go to court, the department doesn't even see him until he goes to the castle for the naming decree. Another area which I consider to be a priority and which the Ministry does not address at all is the requirement to reduce recurrence. We have a huge relapse of 70 percent. It means that taxpayers must pay approximately CZK 400,000 a year for every prisoner who returns to that prison. That is certainly not an easy thing to do, but the example of house arrest shows that the ministry is simply not here. How is it possible that we put tens of millions of crowns into a system that only accounts for 100 people under house arrest? Absolutely unused potential for saving public funds at a time when prisons are bursting in our seams. I'm so glad you're listening to me, co-workers. I really appreciate it. Of course, there's an appeal to simplify the system. The Minister kicked it out with a not-so-good statement after about two days in office, that we should abolish one whole judicial level, but it has not been discussed since, unfortunately, since then. I think the cause is totally obvious, why this justice isn't working for us. We see that we already have a fourth minister there in two years of the government's operation. The resort is in absolute chaos, there really are ministers taking turns as an astronomical clock. Now it ended with the Prime Minister putting in a briefing for President Benešová, who said that she wouldn't really do much to make sure that she wouldn't do much, so as she prepares those laws for her successor. Now that we've complained that she didn't want to support our narrow amendment to the State's Attorney's Act, she's come up with her own, wider novel, which will not be before the holidays, which will be postponed. It wasn't even supposed to apply until the next term. Well, of course that's completely absurd. We also have problems where the Ministry doesn't work, like divorce. In an attempt to humanize the proceedings, so that all divorces here, in the Czech Republic, do not end up in court, so that it is not normal to sue for children. We've got a hundred issues in the area of conflict of interest here, where the Justice Department is the gesturing authority. [[17.20 hours]] So the basic problem is the chaos. The results of that time, if we really take the result not of talking about something, but the fact that the law has passed has reached the end, and the measure has been implemented in practice, and ideally the positive impact has already been measured, the results in the Justice Department are not really. Let's see experts and interpreters. We have these in the final stage, where the government has dragged them during its term of office, perhaps it does not even have a majority for them in the Chamber of Deputies. I have already mentioned the Government's legislative plan that the things that are in it are not being fulfilled and that even the government's plans are not reflected in the government's legislative plan that we will find in large part only European legislation in the Government's legislative plan. I was looking at the current results that were achieved, and in principle we had one more minor proposal here, where obstruction of justice was introduced as a new deed of crime. And we have succeeded in achieving an amendment to the insolvency law, which, however, arose mainly on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So the results that would really come from the Ministry and not the implementation of European legislation can be calculated on the fingers of one hand. I wanted to appreciate, at least, that the Minister finally started dealing with those interest groups, with actors, with anti-corruption non-profits, and that she withdrew from the worst points of the proposal that we pointed out, i.e. the fact that it should take effect only in 2022, the way in which the selection committees are occupied, that should be particularly in the sense of the Supreme Prosecutor, who is responsible for the public prosecutor's system. But there are still problems such as the planned very rapid replacement of those prosecutors after two respectively. Three years. That means if there's a person who doesn't think well about justice, he'll be able to control the system very quickly. I consider this to be a risk, and here, too, we appeal for the Minister to make adjustments to his proposal. We monitor major failures in the Justice Department in digitization. I am chairman of the subcommittee on the digitization of justice. A large project was being prepared in cooperation with the courts, a contract to digitize the insolvency register, so that there was a genuine electronic file. The contract was very extensive, and I criticized how extensive it was, but now it's basically canceled and it's going to start all over again. I recommend that you speak to those judges who have participated in its preparation and who are very disappointed that the Ministry will prepare everything again, which means that nothing will be done by the end of the term because the contract will not be ready, let alone compete and project into practice. I think that's a really big problem. The next point has already been mentioned here, that's for the seventh time, blocking the regional jurisdiction of the executors. We have prepared a specific proposal here. Unfortunately, it was blocked by the Ministry, in this case also in cooperation with some people from the opposition, and it did not submit any own proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. This means, not only have we not provided the eight thousand people with a concrete solution to their problems, except for a minor change in insolvency, but the government has not even submitted its own proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. That means if we were to evaluate how close we are to the 0 to 100 per cent result, we're at some 20 to 30 per cent maximum. And people want the results. People don't just want partial reports on the legislative process, I am deeply convinced of that. As far as transparency is concerned, I think it says most there that the Minister is still hiding the analysis of criminal prosecutions and the possibility of ordering them here in the Czech Republic. I think the Minister of Justice is really an outrage. And with regard to compliance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, on which we all swear here, the President of the Republic swears on it too, I am very surprised that the government does not actively oppose the fact that the President of the Republic refused to appoint a minister, whom he proposed unambiguously. This is not a case like Mr Poche, where there were two possible proposals, but in this case there was a clear proposal. And the Constitution, I think it's some Article 74, says that if the Prime Minister proposes, the President will call off the Minister. In this case the appeal was proposed, the Minister was not dismissed. And in what way the government has actively opposed defending the Constitution of the Czech Republic, we have not yet heard that. So even in this area, which concerns the Justice Department, the government is not achieving results. I believe that it is really necessary to address that the resort should be occupied by someone trustworthy, who will be willing to solve the problems that have arisen in the judiciary. Because although there is much protest for the independence of justice now, and it is a good thing that people have the value of independence of justice at heart, it is still necessary for the resort to evolve to adapt to the current needs to improve services in the Justice Department for citizens, speed up management, reduce the number of lageres in those courts, the proceedings that are there for three or more years in the Justice Department and go back and forth. Unfortunately, this is not happening, which is why I have to say that this government does not have our trust, even in the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u40	So he was Chairman of the Pirates Jakub Michálek. I'll read two apologies. They're additional apologies. Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes for today's meeting from 16 to 17 o'clock for working reasons, and doktor Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 16 to 17 o'clock for working reasons. And now I will ask for the last of the priority rights, which is the chairman of the SPD's MP Radim Fiala. And then, if there isn't another one registered with priority rights, we're going to start a debate to which 24 Members are registered at the moment. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for the floor. The honourable Member, honourable Members, the honourable Government, Jan Werich once said that experts should do professional things. The SPD movement continues to repeat the same political position and position: the Czech Republic needs a government of experts and democracy needs respect for election results. Today I will speak mainly to the members of the ANO movement. The government of ANO's expert nominees could have obtained our support. There is no doubt that it was possible to achieve a fundamental programme agreement. The government of YES, the Social Democrats with the support of the KSČM, did not happen and arose. It is a government in which the participation of the Social Democrats is actually a denial of the results of the elections. Elections where citizens have made it clear that social democracy is losing citizens' trust. But it did not lose the confidence of the elites of the European Union, for which the government, with the programme support of the SPD, was and is a nightmare. The Prime Minister, in the idea of lulling the elites of the European Union, especially Mrs Merkelová and Mr Juncker, and avoiding Majdan, agreed to the participation of Social Democrats in the government. It was clear that social democracy had more of a talent for politics, debt-making, school destruction, tunnelling causes than government experts. The work of ministers under the ČSSD is eloquent and fully confirms our evaluation. Abuse of the Ministry of the Interior to defamate the opposition, e.g. in the report on extremism, a protectorate foreign policy that disrespects international law, measuring double standards, and promoting inadaptables, this is the Social Democrats' working statement supplemented by relatively non-standard demands of government officials for housing in Prague. The participation of social democracy in the government was to be a price for peace from Brussels, Berlin and political nonprofits managed by globalists. The SPD movement has clearly evaluated this step - the Prime Minister will have a truly unstable government and will also see Majdan. The elites of the European Union will always destroy anyone who is not fully controlled. There is only one way to face it: following the model of Italy, Hungary to hold a solid patriotic program of government. Unfortunately, the ANO and the KSČM have abandoned this patriotic concept and have embarked on a compromise. A compromise that can lead to destabilization of the country. Brusel and its globalist minions just won't leave you alone. The Czech Republic needs a government of experts to defend the interests of this country. It is fully in the capacity of this House to create such a government. The current government, with the participation of the Social Democrats, is not such a government. That's why she doesn't have and never had the confidence of our movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u42	This was the last speech with priority rights if I have the correct information, so I am opening the debate at this point. I am opening a debate in which I have 24 Members of Parliament and Members. Mr Blaha is the first to prepare Mrs Pekarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u43	Dear Prime Minister, we first met a few years ago and in a completely different situation. As Minister of Finance, you promised me, the mayor of the city of Uherské Hradiště, to repair the state-owned premises of the Hungarian Hradiště prison. Among other things, an area where, after February 1948, horrific communist atrocities were committed. You told me back then that you were a guy who wasn't lying and that you'd do your best, even appeared in the government's programming statement. Governments leaning on the Communists. [[There's a sneeze coming from the diaper.]] It's true. [[Laughs in the right side of the hall.]] You've been Prime Minister for a while now. Unlike the union leaders at our city office, you don't even need to present a negative illustration certificate. But I understand how governments work under your leadership. Promises, marketing and nothing. Promises, marketing, and nothing. It is clear to me that the vast majority of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic do not worry about our prison and what crazy condition it is in. But it's not that simple with the Department of Transport, which I want to talk about in more detail. The problems in it affect everyone. Dear Government, dear colleagues, Minister of Transport, first of all let me thank the Minister of Transport for his presence in the House. Why? Because his movement is incompetent at the Transport Department, we have become accustomed to his predecessor Dan Ťok. Now, in connection with the empty chair in Václav Moravec's questions and during the interpellation last week, we began to fear that, in addition to incompetence, in the transport resort, invisibility appeared. Minister Kremlík, I'm glad you're here, although I was rather expecting you to deliver water on the D1 to the drivers. Why am I talking about incompetence? Because the story of the Ministry of Transport - and watch out, ano has been controlling it for the sixth year - the story is epic, it may have been funny before, but now it is especially sad and sometimes even horror. Myth. We don't know where we're gonna be and where we're not gonna pay for it six months before we start the new toll system. The government lies in the eyes of the mayors and generals, and the signed memorandums are worthless pieces of paper. Moreover, there is a threat of international arbitration in the air due to the probably illegal signing of the contract with the new operator, also a series of possible charges for intervening in the course of the toll tender by the president of the parliamentary club and the first Vice-President of YES Jaroslav Faltýnek, the transport exminister Dan Ťok and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Freeway. During the whole time the ANO movement operates at the Ministry of Transport, 42 kilometers of new motorways have been built in the Czech Republic, about eight a year. Last year, however, just a sad record of 4 kilometers. I live in Uherské Hradiště and I am beginning to worry that I will never live to see the motorway connection from Prague home at this rate. And you now - and now beware - had 25 percent more resources available than the government did six years ago. In this we have a narrow third of D1 and YES by the mouth of Mr Kolovratník suggests an increase in the price of the motorway stamp. That's not sad, Minister, nor horror. This is literally shameless. If you'd rather focus on making the electronic highway sign you promised us on January 1st of this year already work. And a dramatic delay in building highway scales for overloaded trucks, I prefer to mention only marginally. Railroad. Already for the second time the ANO movement called off the head of the Czech Railways after a few months. Of course, they were experts every time. We already know that no one else ANO ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, Instead of building high-speed lines long ago, strengthening the role of railways in large cities and suburban transport, opening up the railway market to competition and modernising the fleet, because of the ANO movement, we can't even agree on who would direct us strategically very important national carriers. Plus, there's talk of a possible infringement and a police investigation, which even gives our story a criminal plot. You can beautifully redistribute, spend, allocate, but you are not able to realize any powerful system solutions. It's a kauza. Unfortunately, I have to continue my criminal plot. I've already talked about the Faltýnek case. But there are other cases. kauza Prime Minister's Transport Advisor Roman Lenner, who not only advised the Prime Minister but also built it. And when building the D11 motorway, he even acted parallel to both the contractor and the contractor, which is a colossal conflict of interest, as if a policeman were investigating his own crimes. We also have a criminal announcement from the Office of State representation in property matters due to strange scams with SŽDC land in Dejvice, where the state could lose hundreds of millions of crowns due to the ANO movements deployed by experts. Or the case of ČD Telematics shares, which are sold in a strange way by friends already mentioned several times by Jaroslav Faltýnek, to end up in the hands of one large financial group. Sci-fi. And I cannot mention the latest activities of the Ministry of Transport in connection with the Danube - Odra project, when the Ministry continues its preparations happily. Originally, there was talk of the Danube - Odra - Elbe channel. Since this year, only about the Danube - Odra channel, which is allegedly cheaper and should cost less than 300 billion crowns in quotation marks. I live just outside Baťův's canal, which is amazing, and by the way, it's also threatened by this megaloman building. But it would be even more amazing if your resort had been on the ground if this science fiction had ended if you had thought about the real needs of the Czech Republic and its inhabitants and for the 300 billion you finally completed the backbone highway network of the Czech Republic. He started to build high-speed lines and stopped riding on some of the lines in the cars my generation used to visit my grandmother for the holidays. And of course he was repairing bridges and roads, because we all know how much transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic needs it, and we are no longer the only ones who are paying attention to low investment in infrastructure. It is also the Supreme Audit Office or various international comparisons. [[17.40 hours]] [[He laid six pieces of mineral water and a motorcycle helmet on the speaker's counter.]] So, Minister, in conclusion, let me say that your resort is at least in a decent state of decay, even though you have opposition against each other, which is and was prepared to support all meaningful proposals from your ministry, because we may have different opinions on a lot of things, but we all want to drive safely and smoothly on the new motorways. Therefore, allow me to give you this helmet and this package of water, because despite all the problems already mentioned, the only thing you deal with in the media, so when you talk to them exceptionally, are motorcycles and water on clogged D1 in the colours of the Ministry of Transport. And that sounds like helplessness or despair, or helplessness and despair combined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u44	Thank you and Mrs Pekarová is next in the debate, Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak first of all to the Prime Minister, but unfortunately his place here is empty, but I hope that at least from his office he is watching what is happening here, so since it is about trusting his government, I will nevertheless allow myself to address the speech to him. Dear Prime Minister, in the past, as part of your contempt for this country's institutional tradition, you have mentioned several times that Parliament is an ordinary blabbermouth. There's too much talk, and you don't have time to work. Even if there is grave silence today, we are witnessing a situation these days when the voice sounds louder. A voice that even you can't just ignore and despise. The voice of active civil society. I see the causes of the current situation and, after all, our efforts to voice distrust in your government in particular in two factors. The first is based on economic performance and has a relatively small half-life, but this is more intense at the moment and you are talking about it more. The second is based on moral values, has a longer-term character, and I dare say that it is even more important for the future of this country. The first factor is very often represented in the normalistic material perception of contemporary society, in your managerial vision of this world and in culture, where, as the only right ideal of the Czech middle-class household, you are trying to instill an effective welfare regime, where the content of the consumer basket is more important than what means and at what cost we will achieve it. However, it has to be said that, in addition to fiery rhetorical exercises, you have not been able to carry out this task in the long run. The economy is growing, but so is the country's debt, which is not a natural direct proportion in a civilized developed country that is well managed. And you can easily show the development charts, statistical data issued by your ministries, in which with any luck you will not deny yourself, and official statements made by the individual authorities led by the ministers for the ANO movement. The truth is, however, that you are riding on a wave of extraordinary economic growth, which is being squandered, among other things, by very generous donations for your main electoral groups, for example in the form of fare discounts. But everything is at the cost of continuing debt to this country. Sometimes, as part of electoral pragmatism, you try again to reach out to groups where you would like to succeed, such as small businessmen. But you can feel the echo of your own phrases coming back to you when you appeal to these people. A few years ago, a major businessman in a lecture at the University of Economics said that if someone had drawn up a business plan with a loss, they would have fired him. You might remember the situation, maybe you agreed with him at the time, or it's all a little different. Waste of this country's economic potential and unprecedented non-compliance with promises with reality will have a major impact on society, not only on those who are protesting against you today throughout the Czech Republic, but also on those who support you. And paradoxically, maybe especially to them. Another government, which is already very likely to be affected by the irreversible movement of the economic cycle, will have to address the budgetary dilettanteism of the Prime Minister, who is able to do absolutely anything just to follow the compass of public opinion and the changing trajectory and needs of his electoral core, even if it means throwing away the future of the next generation, those children he promised in 2013 that they would not be ashamed of him one day. Try asking them today how you're doing and whether they're really ashamed, if you have the courage. The second factor causing not only our dissatisfaction with you as Prime Minister is acceptance, and what is worse, the promotion of moral devastation and the demise of the values on which this country is built. Values that he didn't bring only in 1989, when you watched everything from a distance the gay and calm from Morocco and waited to see how it all turned out, but which was defined by the Masaryk First Republic. This is the main reason why dozens, hundreds of places in the Czech Republic are surrounded by crowds of protesters who are currently not making such demands. They only want decency, honor, and respect for the spirit of righteousness, which is not an outpouring of modern times, but a sign of every advanced society. Fears of special-purpose changes at the Justice Department, along with a thousand denials, I would say, through shouted topics, in the Prime Minister's chair, contribute to the atmosphere of a considerable upset among those who are not willing to suffer similar papalasian manners. Words like "I will never withdraw, never, let everyone remember it" are nothing more than contempt for the basic moral principles associated with a high constitutional function. They're nothing but contempt for people. After all, it was you who went up steeply six years ago to the government's involvement with the emotional sentences of ending that Palermo, who was your opponent in the campaign, but also provided you with the necessary support for building your agroimpérium for years before. The criticism then directed at the abuse of power and the system, which, after more than 20 years undoubtedly failed a large part of society, was in many ways timely, perhaps justified. The movement of self-appointed professionals in white shirts offering a non-political and managerial alternative to all disappointed gradually turned into something that is a real danger to this country. The dangers of economic, political and moral. A danger that more and more people are aware of not only on the streets. You have become a symbol of the arrogance of power, a symbol of unfulfilled promises, a symbol of the ignorance of the values of this country. You can take thousands of photos on social networks with accompanying comments in the style of familial approach to your fans and voters, you can take pictures with a black wolf and complain about how hard it is for you people to continue your hi, but this virtual reality doesn't change the fact that you can't stand up to one in a quarter of a million people demonstrating to Letna and with honesty in your face to tell him that you think well about this country because you don't and those people know it. In your fight for a strong Czech Republic, ask your colleagues from other countries about the European Council as they look at the front pages of the world's journals, where the voice of disagreement with the current conditions is embodied in a photo filled with summer plains. Photos from the biggest demonstration since 1989. I'm sure you'll laugh about it together. Words about campaigning, purposemakers and people who don't understand you, words about conspiracy, hate media and corrupt nonprofits, words about traditional parties, European Commission and auditors conspiring against you. Come and tell us how you ended up in this discussion and in your fight for a strong Czech Republic. [[17.50 hours]] Personally, I don't think you're happy about this situation either. Not only are you a disgrace to yourself, you are a disgrace to our country as well. You're not a successful and great statesman whom the entire company loves, as you probably wish. You are an oligarch possessing the media, an economic empire, and using executive power to promote and protect your interests. You're not here for people, but people are supposed to be here for you. And that's how history will remember you. Do a service to this country and step back before you sign up in an even worse way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. And now there is Mrs Černochová in the debate, then there is Mr Svoboda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to ask you for a procedural vote in order to interrupt this item until the Prime Minister is present. It really seems undignified to me that here we are discussing a motion for distrust to the government, the Prime Minister sat here in the first place when he was cheering for the acting ministers who took turns here as the Apostles on the clock, but when it comes to the normal applications of Members who want to evaluate the work of this government, will he hide?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the suggestion. I've called my colleagues, as you can see, they're coming into the hall. I'll repeat what the proposal sounded like. There is a motion to adjourn the negotiations on this point to the presence of the Prime Minister... There's... I don't know if there's a check-out request or not. There's a checkout request. I will sign you off, please sign up with your cards again, and when the number of people present in the room is stable, we will vote. [[He's waiting a while.]] I'll repeat what we're going to vote on for those who are coming. There is a procedural proposal for... we have already signed off, Madame. There is a procedural proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is already here. I don't know if I should vote in that case, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. You don't have to, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just gonna repeat what I said. When the ministers of this government spoke, the Prime Minister listened to their speeches, even though they are the ministers of the government in which he is Prime Minister and probably knows their work, he was a front-row fan. I'd like the Prime Minister to cheer for us, too, if we're here to say some critical comments about this government. So thank you for having the Prime Minister. Thank you for having the other ministers. And if you don't mind, Mr. Vice-President, I'd like to get started.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u50	Yeah, okay. So just to do the procedure, you're downloading your proposal and you're going to continue your performance. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u51	I'm downloading my proposal. Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I am impressed by some of the speeches, and not just by me, that we live here in paradise. I wonder why we're all so hot that even gentlemen who usually wear jackets put them away, but I don't think I feel alone in hell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u52	Madam, I am going to interrupt you because some are leaving and are not doing so calmly, so I would ask them to leave in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u53	Well, if they were going out to take the jackets, I'd quite welcome it. [[A member of the ČSSD is wearing a jacket and going to the speaker's desk.]] There. It is said, if you do not praise yourself, you will not receive praise. However, what we are watching here is not self - praise, but a festival of demagogy and hypocrisy. On the other hand, there are cases, unfortunately also the past and criminal prosecutions burdened by the Prime Minister, fear of pressure on police and justice are present not only in this Chamber of Deputies but also in our streets. That in itself is an unforgettable reason why this government should end, because this is a situation unworthy of a standard democratic country. Let us remember, dear colleagues, what marginalias the Heads of Ministers and other representatives of the state have fallen on in the past. On the other hand, there is the very exercise of the government and the management of our country, which are very miserable. This government, and not only her, but also the previous two with the participation of the ANO and ČSSD movement, and then representatives of the KDU-ČSL, are the most wasteful ones that we have had since the revolution and which, figuratively speaking, organize a big party at the expense of future generations, eat through the prosperity of our country and do absolutely nothing for the structural modernization of the Czech Republic and for its success in competition with other countries. I want to talk about defense here, which most of you assume. And I appreciate the Secretary of Defense sitting here all the time, because apparently when he saw my name on the board, he knew that I would definitely respond to his performance. Thank you for that, Minister. So I want to talk about defense, virtually. on the administration of the Ministry of Defence and our armed forces in the hands of the ANO movement. The Prime Minister often pretends that he was not actually in the previous government and that there is a little more than one year of rule, but that is, of course, a deliberate deception and an attempt to wall up the previous years when much time has been wasted in defence. In deciding the distrust of this government, it is therefore necessary to look not only at the last year when Minister Metnar is in position, but at the last six years, in which the ANO movement holds in its hands key ministries, including the Ministry of Defence, and during which it promises us a better tomorrow over and over again, while ministers alternate and the major changes unfortunately do not come. So, if I specifically focus on defense, Prime Minister, you can do whatever you want, but the infamous ministership of Mr Martin Stropnický will not be undone. You have full responsibility for him! I'm sure we'll all remember the moving pre-election clips just from 2013, when you promised Mr. Stropnický on children's playgrounds with the important face of the ANO movement that children would not be ashamed of you and that you would correct and correct everything. From today's perspective, it is smiling because after his failure at the Ministry of Defence, the former Vice-President of the ANO movement, Mr. Stropnický, has fled to Tel Aviv, where according to his own wife, he is now handing out water before the embassy to protesters against your government, Prime Minister Babiš! Probably so he can clean up and look like a reborn, extra-party expert. But even this fact will no longer erase his incompetent involvement in the defence department in the YES jersey, which you certainly cannot be proud of, Prime Minister. So what did we see in the Department of Defense for six? Or did they not? Six years is really a long enough time to show who knows what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do. In our post-revolutionary era, this period of defence, by the way, has surpassed only KDU-ČSL and for eight years the KDU-ČSL minister had been in defence for a comparable period. The ČSSD had their ministers on defense for six years, as well as now the ANO movement. I will therefore argue in my summary of the ANO era in defence with traceable facts, not with impressions. [[18.00 hours]] I'll start, and maybe to your surprise, commendation. Firstly, I am glad that then Minister of Defence Stropnický heard from us members of the then Defence Committee in 2014 and 2015 and, in close cooperation, we finally pushed through changes in the defence legislation as proposed by the White Paper on Defence, which was created under the Minister of Defence of Mr Alexandr Vondra. One of the consequences of these changes is the increased attractiveness of the service in both the professional army and the active reserve, thanks to which the army is now able to complement despite the lack of people in the labour market. Minister Metnar also mentioned that we are actually doing well in recruitment. Yes, these are the fruits and benefits of what we voted for here in the previous and last term. Let me thank my colleagues from the last parliamentary term who worked in the Defence Committee, who are no longer Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic today, because no one else will do so again, yet perhaps they are watching today and have not stopped interested in the defence. Secondly, both the previous and this government have decided to eat as much as possible and not to create reserves for worse times. I am glad that money has been found in defence, even though spending increases do not go far beyond what was promised in 2014. The fact that the former Minister of Defence could not strategically plan and issue funds for strategic projects is a matter that I can still get to. Three. Prime Minister, Minister, I very much appreciate the fact that even the Communists are holding this government and the President is also keeping it surrounded by the Kremlin crew, you as Prime Minister and you as Secretary of Defense are still maneuvering and still holding our ties to the West, NATO, and you are holding the line. And I want to thank you for that. I want to thank you for not really allowing yourself to be persuaded by colleagues on the left side of the political spectrum to reconsider some missions. It is certainly worth recalling here that without us, without opposition, some of the proposals that concern precisely the foreign deployment of our soldiers would not have passed without us, the opposition. And here I can perhaps speak as the first Vice-President of the ODS for all of my colleagues, that, of course, if that other philosophy of yours is the same about foreign operations as it was, you will have our support in this regard. So we can hope that this fact will not change any trade with colleagues from the left again for any other priorities, or with colleagues from the SPD. Because personally, I and the Civil Democratic Party consider NATO and the presence of the United States of America in Europe as a guarantee of primary security for the Czech Republic and must remain that way. So now, to what has gone wrong in the last five years for the YES movement, euphemistically speaking. One. If one looks at NATO's Secretary-General's annual reports, it will find that in 2014, the Czech Republic was in defence spending relative to GDP among allies 21 of 27, seventh from the end. In 2018, it was 24. out of 28 countries, i.e. the fifth from the end. The Czech Republic was 19 out of 27 allies in 2014 in another, no less important indicator of investment expenditure under the defence budget. She was 23rd of 28 allies in 2018. That doesn't mean that it wasn't added to our defenses in those absolute numbers. This means, of course, that we are adding disproportionately little given how our country is getting richer. And that's wrong. Two. In September 2014, the leaders of the three coalition parties, including you, Prime Minister Babiš, signed a coalition party contract to secure the defence of the Czech Republic. The fourth article states that the defence budget will reach 1.4 percent of GDP in 2020. Again, the Minister of Defence, Metnar, spoke of this. This commitment was recalled at the NATO summit in Wales. What's the reality? In his speech today, Minister Metnar was not already talking about 2020, which was promised in the said Treaty, but about 2021. So the government itself has already retreated from this goal, and now it is pretending that it never really existed. According to current documents The preparation of the state budget for 2020 and the medium-term outlook for 2021 and 2022 is to be 1,3% of GDP next year, according to defence expenditure. What is worse, however, is that in the current draft budget, 2020 is already a few billion less for defense than planned last year, and thus the new term 2021 is also at risk. It is only to say that there is no clearer example of what your coalition partners and your own commitments mean to you and that what you do best is above all the promises you make. I am afraid that the other commitment mentioned here by Minister Metnar, i.e. defense spending of 2% of GDP in 2024, is less and less real. Which will eventually be taken away by the Army of the Czech Republic. That is why I have also proposed, Prime Minister, Minister, the law of 2.2% of GDP in defence. I'll show you the number, Prime Minister. [[He's turning to Prime Minister Babiš in the government stand.]] I'm sorry to have your back when I'm talking to you, but I'm willing to show you the numbers. The plan for the 2020 budget, in the prediction by Secretary Schillerová, is less than two billion in defense, Prime Minister. For 2020, Mrs Schillerová proposes two billion less defenses in her prediction. We talked about this yesterday at the Defense Committee. So if you had accepted my proposal to enact the 2% of GDP, the Secretary of Defense would have his own. She would have her own Army of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic would clearly declare and demonstrate its commitment to the allies. Unfortunately, then, when I put forward the proposal - and I will not give up, I will submit it once more in this parliamentary term - so unfortunately, unsuccessfully. And with the government's negative opinion, we discussed it here, I think it was, in January 2018. I really do not propose this because I would like to employ the government to address any of my proposals on every government. No, not really, it's not my ambition. I believe that, after those richer times, times will become thinner, and you and the various ministers in the government will argue about who will have priorities and what will be preferred. I think it's starting to happen now. I wanted to help you, Minister, by lawing the 2% of GDP that we would gradually come to, and I wanted to help the Prime Minister, too, so that you as his minister, Minister for YES, would have some guarantee that you would have these funds here in your budget. Because, of course, you can't plan day-to-day acquisitions in this resort. This must be where acquisitions are planned for decades, at least. After all, we're going to update the quacro. Three. While it is added to defense, although less than would be needed, money is not being spent in the long run. You could write a few white books about that, too. It was the worst in 2016, when, due to the inability of the former Minister of Defense, Stropnickýý in investment, we fell below 1% of GDP in defense expenditure. Prime Minister, I'll probably never forget the expression of Minister Stropnickýý when we proposed an increase in his department's budget by CZK 5 billion and he refused to spend it anyway. This was indeed an unprecedented paradox. Unfortunately, the ANO representatives failed to stabilise, or realise, planning, and thus improve the expenditure part in the area of investment. I think Minister Metnar has a plan, and even here he said he was aware of that. [[18.10 hours]] I would recall, for example, the finding of the Supreme Audit Office at the beginning of this June, which states that the Ministry of Defence was wrong in planning purchases of clothing, linen, footwear and other equipment for soldiers between 2015 and 2017. That was the SAO's find. The result of bad planning is that we are still issuing less than 20 percent of the defense budget for defence investment, which is a minimum percentage recommended by North Atlantic alliance standards. By the way, do you know the last time we issued a percentage like this, 20% for investments? Take a guess. It was 2011. It was at the time when Nečasův' government ruled here, Prime Minister. Four. Looking back on strategic investment is a sight full of sadness and pain. Basically, for the last six years, we've been talking about what we're gonna get and how beautiful it's gonna be, while all the projects have been delayed. On the departure of Secretary of Defense of Stropnickýý we heard fairy tales about how everything was prepared in bows and about the signing of contracts that he himself had no courage to, and tried to slip them to his successor, Mrs. Šlechtová. And as we learned from the subsequent developments, the reality was quite different and in many projects we are now starting again from zero. Not only can Minister Šlechtová tell you about this, but Minister Metnar can tell you about it. I'm saying again, I'm not getting into the big picture, I'm just telling the facts here. The concrete two projects that Minister Stropnický spoke of as being in Mrs Šlechtová's bows were helicopters and were MADRs. Neither of them is contracted. It may be, the time is always moving, the Minister has spoken of it, but neither is closed. And we're getting, especially with those helicopters, we got to the beginning, we actually got to the beginning of the MADRs, because it wasn't even G2G there. So as far as the MADR radar is concerned, this is an investment, just to remind you, which has been mentioned since about 2006. In 2015, it was first included in the Ministry of Defence's budget. However, there is still no contract signed. The minister said it should be by the end of summer. Yes, I prefer to say by the end of the summer. The existing Soviet Provence radars should be recorded in the Guinessův Book of Records. Or at least in our version of Czech, in the south of Bohemia, I suspect that Henry's Hradec is doing it, he writes in the record book. [[Pelhrimov]] Please write down the MADRY that they have lasted so many years and that perhaps they will last for a week and our soldiers will not get blackout. The last piece of information is that it's due by the end of summer, we'll all be able to keep our fingers crossed to make it happen. I'd love to have a drink with the Secretary of Defense if that happens. And I'm almost abstinence. Multipurpose helicopters, colleagues, have been in the plans since 2012 or 2013. Minister Stropnický told journalists on 20 March 2015 that the supply of machinery could start sometime in 2017. Sounds like a really bad joke tonight. It is 2019, a few days ago we received a new offer from the American party, but we are still working on our promised deliveries. I repeat, the Minister said that 40 people, 40 experts, are sitting at the moment, examining these offers. Let us hope that the term mentioned by the Minister will apply and that by the end of 2019 the helicopters may be able to arrange. At the same time, I hope that if helicopters are contracted, there will be enough funds for them in the coming years. And here I'm turning to Secretary Schillerová, so she doesn't even think about cutting her defense expenses in years to come. Because the moment there's a contract acquisition that's been going on for 20 years, there's just no way in the budget to count on the funds. Another typical story, modernizing artillery. First, a 155mm NATO caliber cannon was to be taken. Then decided to modernize the existing Dana howitzers with 152 mm caliber. The material was passed on the proposal of then Minister Stropnický by the government, the contract was to be signed in September 2017 and deliveries were to take place between 2018 and 2020. Then again, apparently someone turned on the light, this variant rejected and again the Ministry returned to the purchase of new works of 155 mm caliber. Thus, we Members receive information on the new deadline for the signature of the contract with the supplier every six months on the committee. Again, according to the latest information, the contract should be signed next May. We're gonna keep our fingers crossed here, too, because we've been hearing those promises for years now, and it keeps moving and moving. I could list other dozens of projects that are constantly moving forward, so they are accumulated in a few years to come. However, if the performance of our economy gets worse, we will be very difficult to manage this investment hump not only through financing but also through project management. So, once again, please be very careful with the reduction in the number of civilian employees and soldiers, once again, as it will simply be cut off at the resort, so don't cross off the civilians, Minister. Who's gonna do your projects? Who's gonna watch them for you? Who's gonna keep an eye on them for you? Well, that won't just be soldiers. That's what civilians are gonna do. It can be a huge problem especially for the biggest projects in the last 30 years. Now I come to what most of you have also registered in the media, and I am glad that the Minister here, too, has listened to my request, if the military in this case could not choose a slightly more standard way of communicating and in a lay manner explaining to people why the new BVP needs. Which is happening, and I have to say, that campaign through some reservations and raised eyebrows, that sometimes it's too lay-like, so it's pretty good. The seventh mechanized brigade is the backbone of the Army of the Czech Republic. The purchase of BVP has also been discussed here for many years. After all, the White Paper on Defence also mentioned him. It turns out that the Ministry of Defence has not really begun to deal with this project until recently. On behalf of Minister Metnar and his predecessor Mrs Šlechtová, steps have just been taken to get this purchase started and this huge acquisition. Again the appeal - if the BVP is actually able to arrange a purchase in December 2019, you must count on them in the budget plans for the following years. There can't be enough resources. I don't want to be a tycoon. I really don't. But my historical memory - I'm a ninth-year MP, I've been defending myself for nine years, so I really wouldn't want us to be back here in a year or six months on a similar or other occasion, like the state budget, to meet and listen to some acquisitions and contracts being postponed again. You know, I also talked about it right after the Minister's arrival with him personally. I think it's a big mistake that Minister Stropnický canceled the National Armament Office and actually suspended the plans to transform the acquisition system at the Ministry of Defence. There I see precisely the reason that some of these things accumulate only now and that the Minister or his deputy does not really know what to compete with. [[18.20 hours]] Information from the media from this April can also be a good example, where, if the Armament Office were, it probably wouldn't have happened. This is where it happened, and those of you who are the second term of the election, so I'm sure you remember me from this rhetorical field, and I've been playing towards Mr. Defense Minister Stropnickýý about buying vests, that I've been here several times interpelling the Minister, that the soldiers didn't have enough bulletproof vests, while there was a squabbling going on, which could somehow have ended with a compensation of tens of millions of crowns. So, Prime Minister, if you didn't miss it in the press, imagine that in April of this year, the court ruled that the withdrawal of the Ministry of Defence from the contract for the supply of bulletproof vests from the Czech Armory in 2016 was illegal. And you were here in the last parliamentary term, so you remember how Defense Minister Stropnickýý reacted to me back then when I told him it wasn't good for him, that that's how he argued that the Ministry wasn't really pulling the stronger end of the rope. What I expected happened, and unfortunately, I am not happy about it, because the consequences of these decisions are still borne by the minister who is put there by the ANO movement, and so it is Mr Metnar. I'm coming to the end. Six. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Defence did not belong to the most stable ones in terms of top officials. Mr. Stropnický was replaced by the Deputy Director of Acquisitions five times, five times in four years, but the Minister boasted that he was the longest minister of defence. Personnel instability is also a problem last year. Several Deputys are only in charge of the proceedings and the directors of two major state-owned enterprises have been dismissed. Yesterday, we learned some timetable where the new directors of these state-owned companies could be appointed. I consider this appointment to be very important, because one of those companies is the GTC, which is currently being counted, as the Minister has just mentioned here, on the BVPs. So let's hope it's soon. I would perhaps end this with relative details, but also important, because even these things - and I am glad that the Governor is coming, because now I will speak partly to her, not only to you, through the Vice-President. Unfortunately, in the last six years, the Resort has served to make senseless and completely ineffective experiments, despite some of our warnings. Once again, when you play the footage, I said it here. Unfortunately, we're all paying for the experiments now, and most importantly, our army. I am talking about a political event with the opening of the Sokolov Military School class, which ended two years in a row with a fiasco for recruiting students. I know that this was done despite the fundamental resistance of the then Minister of Šlechtová, yet Mrs. Governor made her point. I am talking about another training centre in the Karlovy Vary Region, as well as an effort to expand the operation of the army at Karlovy Vary Airport, in order to improve its management. Or I don't understand what other reason he was. The chapter itself was your experiment, Prime Minister, with the air rescue service and the addition of another region for the army. It turns out that this was a step which, on the one hand, disrupted the functional system and, on the other, unnecessarily debilitating the military's capabilities. What to say in full conclusion. Perhaps it is only that I appreciate some changes and a different approach to the management of the Defense Department, which is evident from the current Minister Metnar, because I know it is not easy. It should be noted, however, that he has nothing to do but after the period of sleep that he had to do before his appointment at the Ministry of Defence. He really has to work. And it wasn't really in any other department of your government, maybe I could mention another department here, but some of my other colleagues will comment on that, so don't let me criticize ministers who will be criticized by someone else from the ODS. Dear Prime Minister, if your government wants to brag about achievements in the defense department, then know that you are only putting out the fires that you have unfortunately started for the past six years. You, too, are personally responsible for the pitiful state of modernization of the military, for the stagnation in the field of acquisitions, for the lack of raising the defense budget and for the inability to spend on the necessary things. After the performance of Minister Stropnický, your government does not have our trust, just as it did not at the beginning of this parliamentary term. The fulfillment of government promises made in 2013 after six years in me and in my circles certainly does not call for confidence, especially with regard to how many words, deadlines shifts, priorities changes, odd arguments we have heard here in that time. And that is the main reason why I will vote in favour of your government's distrust. And in the complete conclusion, I would like to express my hope, to express my hope that at least part of my accusations will be taken to heart, Prime Minister, and that when the first reading of the state budget is discussed, when you really have relevant economic data for setting priorities for the next period, so that the Army of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence are in your absolute view, because truly freedom and security are not free. And the Čech, the Čechoslovák, have experienced how thin the line is between having it and not having it. So by this I appeal to all of you: do not spend money on the Army of the Czech Republic. Don't steal money from the Ministry of Defense. I think, from the point of view of the funds, our country can certainly afford to complete all the acquisitions that I have mentioned here, which the Minister of Defence mentioned here, so that it will not be a disgrace and that we will actually modernize our army. He deserves it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u54	Well, thank you. Your performance triggered a reaction, the first to be reported to me by Prime Minister Babiš. We agreed that this would be enough in a factual remark. So if Mrs Vildumetzová does not have a problem with this, please the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for the floor. I am sorry, I am waiting for the CEO of all Czech banks and we are discussing investment funds. So I left the meeting very quickly, Madame. Well, you say you've been here nine years. What about the 21 years? What's been here for 30 years - since parachutes, migas, tanks, time, pandurs. What about the rent of the airport in Pilsen-Lin, twice 50 years, and we got nothing. And the barracks. And we've had Russian radars for 30 years. So what did you do the first ten years since the revolution, then? ODS? What about your new MEP Vondra? Willow - do you know how much Vrbětice cost us? A billion. He signed those contracts for the warehouses, at a disadvantage for us. So please, I can talk to you for a long time about what you've been through. I know you don't like that Stropnický guy. But there wasn't even a single corruption affair. How many people were on trial to buy military equipment? We won't be discussing this much, but you can read the book of the foundation fund, there was a gentleman at the beginning of the defense, I don't know his name anymore, and then he became the best finance minister and he owed us 670 billion. [[18.30 hours]] So you got off beautifully, but you're doing a selection of those numbers. Selection. Because GDP in 2011 was 4 034 billion. And GDP 2020 is 5 839 billion. And that's a 40 percent increase. And we've only increased $27 billion since 2016. And, of course, we're two percent. What's two percent of Estonia? You know that? $500 million. What is 0,9 % of Belgium? Four and a half billion. I personally explained this to President Trump that we are talking about the amount. [[Attention on time.]] And we give the money, and we give it substantially... So I'd like to apologize for finishing the meeting with the bankers, if you don't mind, and then I'll come back. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u56	So - [[But there's the Secretary of Defense.]] - three factual points and then, with priority rights, the Minister of Defence. First Mrs Mračková, then Mrs Černochová, then Mrs Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u57	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to Mrs Jana Černochová, who said here that a branch of a secondary military school would be opened as a fiasco. Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, I hope you know that the Karlovy Vary Region is a structurally affected region. It is a region with the worst indicators, it is a region that has a unique military space Doupovské Hradiště. If you'd like to come and see it, I'd be happy to show it to you. It's a county that had an army of 20,000 soldiers. He doesn't have it today. During negotiations with the Ministry of Defence there was an agreement that the army would return to the Karlovy Vary Region, which is in the immediate vicinity of the border. And since we're short of soldiers, we agreed to open up a middle-class military school. Unfortunately, it's not my fault that some directors' activities aren't that big. And you know that by failing last year, we were so active that our high school opened up. It opened with one year with 26 pupils and this year 110 candidates, 110 students, registered. I think you're the one who made the fiasco here at the moment. I thought you were a defense expert, but if that's how you approach individual regions that are active... I didn't do it for myself. I did it not only for the citizens of the Karlovy Vary Region, but because I came up with the idea for the branch to open up. Because the secondary military school is the only one in the Czech Republic in Moravian Trebova. And I believe that it should not only be in the Karlovy Vary Region, but it should also be in other regions, because we have a shortage of soldiers. But I don't think you care!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Before Mrs Černochová responds, I will introduce you to an apology. Mr Grebeníček has been apologizing to us since 19 o'clock for serious personal reasons for the whole day. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First, I'll respond to the previous speaker. Thank you for inviting me to the Doupov military exercise for several days, so I know him. It's a fiasco. The fiasco is yours, because you, through the Vice-President, do not know the needs of the region. You don't know you didn't have enough students to go to those schools? And that's why it ended with such a fiasco. So, what are you doing in this county, Madam Governor, through the Vice-President? As for Mr. Babiš, the reaction to what the ODS was doing here for the first ten years. Yes, the ODS governments took turns with the ČSSD governments. And, among other things, after the revolution, there have been two pretty crucial things under our governments. What do you think? We've entered NATO, we've been celebrating for 20 years. We celebrated 15 years of the anniversary of joining the EU. Isn't that enough? Mr. Babiš, is that not enough for you? I didn't get any numbers out of my finger. You count them by other tables. We have compared data several times in all debates and with Minister Metnar for the last time on Prima and we agreed that I have them right because I actually have them from the budget notebooks. So I'm not making up any data here. And really for investment, 20 percent for investment in defense, was given the last time in 2011, when the evil Nečas and the evil Kalousek ruled here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Němcová, with a factual remark, which should be the last point of fact at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond to what has been said here by Prime Minister Babiš. He's not here, so I'll at least tell those who are sitting here or maybe watching our meetings at home. If the Prime Minister asked to draw attention to what was under the ODS governments, it's the old tactic where he doesn't want to talk about what was under his government. So let me remind you of what I happened to say here a year ago when we were discussing trust with the government. It was an expression by the ex-minister Karla Šlechtová, who said: "I was running for a movement that wanted to be anti-corruption. Since this is the problem of the Ministry of Defence, transparency and clientelistic networks, which reach very high, there are many employees of the Ministry of Defence and politicians involved, so my media lynch started." That's how much Mrs. Ex-Mistress Šlechtová. It must be added that this media lynch began and started in media owned by the Prime Minister. I asked why the Security Council of the State was convened on this matter. I asked how the new Minister, Minister Metnar, would proceed in this matter. I wanted to know how serious these suspicions were that corruption was rampant during the government of the YES movement in the Ministry of Defence, and I didn't get any answers. Even today I have not heard it from the Prime Minister, who turns his attention somewhere so that he does not have to talk about his problems and his people's problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. And now Minister Metnar has been given priority rights. Not anymore? Okay. In that case, please Mr Svoboda, who is duly entered into the debate. And Mr. Baxa will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, I see we will be talking tonight about the trust of the government of Andrej Babiš, which is most often referred to in connection with conflicts of interest or grant fraud. But what's a little forgotten is the inability of this government. Andrej Babiš and his people have been at the head of our country for six years. For six years, they have managed public finances that even during economic growth they can't control. So, year after year, we manage the deficit, we have a complex tax system, a huge amount of bureaucracy, we don't invest. They say there's no money for teachers' salaries or pension reform that YES, ČSSD canceled, and we all remember the embarrassing search for social services money from the past weeks. YES but also the Ministry of Transport is also in charge, which is why motorways, railways are not being built here, and so in general it is difficult to get anywhere. In a period of record economic growth, it simply eats record and invests a record little, we can dream about reforms from the ministers' pen. But for a few minutes, I'm going to try to turn your attention into an area that shouldn't be indifferent to anyone at all. Simply because the functioning of this area can largely depend on the life of all of us. I think you have a hunch about my lifelong career, my scientific focus, my teacher's focus, I want to talk about the functioning of the government in the field of health. [[18.40 hours]] Evaluation is quite simple discipline. You'll see what the minister has done in the area during his time. You'll see what impact it had, how much it cost, how it helped patients, doctors, nurses, or other medical personnel. You can compare it with practice abroad, and also whether it is in line with a national strategy or similar document. At the end of the process you will get a fairly clear picture, which you will somehow describe using your knowledge, experience and data. As I was saying, at first glance, it's basically a simple matter, it just takes a little bit of work. But judging the work of Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, who is already in the second government of Andrej Babiš, is a hell of a job. You're asking why? The Minister has done nothing of these great things and has done a number of small things that are beneficial, but he doesn't solve the matter. He's also been filling the front pages of the media lately. Unfortunately, it is not because of health care, but because in his work he was looking for his boss Andrej Babiš from a strange figure from the half-world compromising materials to political competition. But let's go from CSI to health care. Minister, we met in several debates before the last House elections, and together we agreed on several things that the health system will not be able to do in the future. We both knew that the new minister had to start preparing a comprehensive reform of the health system immediately. It was clear that after the discussion across the political parties and the discussion with the professional public, they had to come up with something that we could call the White Paper of Czech Health. Health is a strange thing. One government guarantee can't be agreed on health care. One government has been here for four years, and in four years it is impossible to make significant changes in health care. We have talked about the need for a discussion between the parties so that the programme in the health outlook is a programme that is largely accepted that it will not be changed again in four years when the government changes. You can't do that in the health department. And the visual program is necessary because the health services are changing terribly. There are now completely different health care and health professionals than they were in the 1950s, or even at the beginning of the 19th and 20th centuries. Of course, we know that health care undergoes these changes for many reasons. One of the reasons is that, apart from aging doctors, our population is getting older. The average age of life since 1989 has changed significantly. It's a thing that's inexplicable medically, neither economically, nor socially, but it's just true. That age has been extended by ten years. We know that the age of the human cell is defined, or is able to be about 120 to 130 years old. So that's the upper limit of what science knows today that with all care, there can be an age that people reach. At this stage, we are at a stage where age is becoming a major health problem. A fundamental problem is that it changes the need for acute care for chronic, care for old people. Of course, those old people today in the 70s or 80s are different age than they were a hundred years ago - they didn't come and talk anymore - but they still need very specific care. And that's one of the things that we need to define, before we even start doing all these little things, exactly what the outlook is going to be like in the future, with a distance of years, what it's going to take for this emergency care, what it's going to take for chronic care. When we hear from the secretary here about the amount of money that was put in medical facilities, hospitals, I ask - which ones? Is that a good thing we're investing in? Won't we need another one in 20 years? I think so, indeed, that the ratio between acute care and acute bed care and chronic care and home care will change fundamentally. And we have to count on it at this point, or we're going to invest a whole bunch of that money in the wrong direction. When we talk about the question of the number of doctors, as the Minister has said, we are getting into a different problem. We'll probably need a lot less doctors in ten, 20 years than we do now. It is simply because very likely the health care will have to enter in a large number of college-educated non-medical professionals, simply because it will get a different form of health in which technology and computer systems will play a crucial role. We get into a system where our discussions about nurses get a completely different form, because even those nurses get a different role in the system, simply because the classic care - changing patients, making beds - gets a completely different form. And we - or the Minister and the Ministry of Health - haven't actually made any such views. All the changes that he's making, and I'm saying again, the changes that are currently to the benefit of this thing, but maybe they're wrong in that perspective, or very probably wrong in that perspective. Now, if we increase the number of doctors in medical schools, those graduates won't be in six or seven years, as someone said, those graduates will be usable in eleven or twelve years, usable in leadership in fifteen years. In those 15 years, the need for those doctors will be completely different. There will also be a completely different composition of those disciplines that will be important. As we know, some diseases have disappeared, as we know that today infectious hospitals have, in essence, fallen to the minimum simply because the infectious diseases are not or do not require hospitalization, so it will be with others, other disciplines. There's a significant reduction in hospitalization in the acute cases. We have an average hospitalization period of two and a half days after surgery today. This, of course, means a completely different claim to the costs and a completely different claim to the need of medical personnel. And we're still building it all on that historical form that was somewhere in the '80s, '90s. So a white book like this that would talk about how health will evolve, what it will need, which we lack in a fundamental way. Such a white book, as we discussed before the elections, was to be discussed by the Minister, presented these considerations to the honourable House and promoted it so that both he and his successors in the next generation and in the next generation had clear boundaries in which they would move, and the direction in which the Czech health care would lead. We have two years left until the next election, and no such strategy has been presented. We know that we will strengthen the role of practitioners. On the other hand, yesterday, at the hands of the Minister and ANO, we swept away the practical doctors for children and adolescents and shortened their periods of education so that they could fill the place that is lacking in sufficient qualified form in the shortest possible time, and we did not do what is essential to the practitioners. Practical doctors must be gatekeepers of the system. Despite a physician, he should go into the health system so that someone who knows all about his history knows everything about his family and can best decide what is needed and where to send him. We still have that system of direct access to anyone, and it's getting awfully expensive. Plus, it's very, very risky in terms of health when doctors don't know what the patient's medical history is. [[18.50 hours]] In principle, the health system is unsustainable from the point of view of financing and functioning. The European Commission also draws our attention to this in the 2017 Health Profile. I don't know which one of you read it, I do, it's rather brief, so his study wouldn't give anyone much work, and it would certainly enrich us significantly, and maybe it would make us take steps without which our doctors, nurses, hospitals and clinics will not be able to do in the future. Let's go over a few points together that are crucial to health. Let us start with funding, which the report claims is not sustainable in the long term. And I agree with that, and I remind the Minister that he agreed completely with me in the election debates and we had a unanimous opinion. Let me quote here: We would like to create a legal space for voluntary participation in insurance. In order to do so, it is necessary to better define the scope of the paid care. - That's what you were talking about, Minister, before the election. Unfortunately, I did not notice from your side any indication of opening the space for private insurance or overstandards or for Taylorised insurance in different age stages. At the same time, these two measures would be a huge step towards financing our hospitals in the future and making money for everyone. Those who have money for investment can invest, for example. To multifocal lenses, he'll pay extra for it, he'll make sure of it. And for those who don't have money, there will be more. Each insurance undertaking works with the amount of funds it has. Everyone's gonna make a fortune on this. But the health system isn't going to do anything like that. It's impossible to finance health care from just one source of insurance and money from the state. They haven't done it anywhere in the world yet, and neither can we. In that case, when the Ministry prepares a solution to § 16 by paying for medicines that are expensive, I ask - of what? At the moment, when we pay almost every parallel, the means will represent an additional load on the system. And who's gonna add that money? There are no clear rules for financing the health system. The payment decree itself is wrong from start to finish. It's not a matter of debate, it's clear to everyone. And if I go back to our election discussions, it's obviously clear to you as well. Senators even filed a constitutional complaint. And your response to questions about whether you are prepared in case the Constitutional Court throws it down, has a solution, we will only learn by fogging that there will be a need to set up a transitional period, etc. etc. So nothing's been done about this either, and you're not even trying to do anything about it. You were talking about the quality of care provided. This is also one of the things that we have discussed in detail. And I'm asking if we're really that far away that you're thinking about doing something about it by the end of the year. So how do you decide which hospital you invest money in and what if you don't know which hospital in the Czech Republic is best, where is the shortest recovery after appendicitis surgery or hip joint replacement and where is the shortest time of hospitalization to heal. You don't see it, the officials don't see it, the citizens don't see it. At the same time, the quality of care, which we have said to ourselves, must be assessed according to clear criteria and must be public. And the knowledge of the quality of medical care must be at the beginning of the whole decision on where I will invest, in what form and form. Although people in the Czech Republic are free to choose from a medical facility, they cannot choose it on the basis of objective facts. Again, a quote from your statement. - The point is to set clear indicators that can be measured across a medical facility. It works that way abroad, for example. in Germany. Percentage of complications, reoperations, etc. And this data should then be published because the patient has a right to know. - Yes, that's the deal. And we also said that this activity must be started right after the election, that four years is a short time to prepare it. And if you're going to do it now, with all due respect to the Ministry, it's a thing that won't be solved. The programme statement also promises to strengthen the role of patients and greater transparency. I think that the role of patients in our health care is still off the table, even though you have patient associations as advisory organizations, they have no exits. The issue of funding is certainly also a question of financing health workers. You yourself said today that this has improved greatly and that our doctors have received almost the same income as in Western Europe. You didn't say it was at the cost of huge overtime, which is contrary to the Labour Code, and I'm not even talking about faculty graduates and young doctors. Their position, despite all these claims, is essentially the same as it was a few years ago, their upbringing is in no way controlled and managed, their legal security is minimal. And that's the biggest reason young doctors are leaving this country somewhere else. It's not finance. It's how they're educated, what's the education system here, and how they're raised in these different workplaces. You're also talking about reducing the administrative burden. I wish you could talk to your sisters sometime about how their administrative burden has decreased. To see what's going on at the nurse's room all morning, what the nurses are doing. They just write, write, and write, and in short breaks between writing, they can look at some bell that rings. In addition, we have EET, control reports, a whole range of other measures that, on the contrary, increase the system. Simplifying, which should bring a well done and discussed electronization, we are there for the substantive purpose of the law. But when I watched how eIncompetent and eRecipe were introduced, I'm terrified of how we're going to keep doing the electronization of health care. Health is a problem in itself. We must ensure its financing, we must ensure quality care, but we must also ensure the social aspects of the health care in some form. Whether we want to or not, health care itself has a social factor - children and, on the other hand, old people who are no longer earning money. You mentioned, for example, about dentists, how you make sure they're everywhere. Dental medicine as such must be given a completely different impulse. I am convinced that thinking about dentists should go in the direction that we would consider, and those calculations already exist that it might be beneficial that dental care for children is completely free. Completely. And especially would be paid for preventive examinations and involvement of dental hygienists in the system of child care and adolescents. According to experiments that have already been carried out, we know that in good prevention and good oral hygiene, dental caries practically disappear, that it is a preventable disease. And we're not doing anything about it. And the exact same thing would be for those grown-ups to pay for dental care. It's all over the world. If they're making money and working, they should be able to get the resources ready for it. And on the other hand, we need to look at the end of the age, where we should put some kind of line from which the dentist would be in some form financed or co-financed by insurance companies. [[19.00 hours]] There are a number of things that are. I could say them one by one, but I will say them during the next stay in the Chamber of Deputies, unless we agree otherwise today. And I hope the changes you've made in your thinking and thinking aren't your changes that you've been forced to do. I understand that it may be interesting to increase the age for fertility, for the possibility of implanting an egg, although it has a thousand health problems and the risk of genetic diseases of children, but it is certainly economically interesting for whoever owns it. And perhaps these are the reasons for which you change your decisions or considerations, and you lead the health sector somewhere that is not entirely ideal. I therefore note that, in terms of the pursuit of the profession through a number of things that are currently beneficial, the great, principled conceptual work that the minister should do is not done. And it really is a big mistake in this area, such as health care, which is very serious. You may excel at obtaining information on political competition, but in my opinion you are failing your role in the ministerial office. And that's why I'm going to vote in favour of this government today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u64	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a point of fact here. Mrs Pastuchová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u65	Thank you for the floor. I just have to respond briefly to my previous speaker, even though I respect him very much. Sisters write, write, write. And the Minister doesn't drive. So nurses, when they have excellent hospital management, they don't write, they don't write. Depends on the management how they do the documentation. The minister was in our Liberec region, we rode, you can ask. We were at the Regional Hospital in Liberec, we were at the City Hospital in Jablonec. And the documentation they created in these two hospitals requires hospitals in the Republic. That's one thing. So I think it's really up to management and not what the Department of Health is ordering. And the fact that the Minister doesn't keep his promises. You see, my colleague, through Mr President, yesterday I was part of a subcommittee on the education of non-medical professionals. In the last parliamentary term, we have spent an incredibly long time here dealing with Law No. 95 on the education of physicians no. 96 about non-doctors, where God bless we have achieved that nurses may not have a university. However, this Act No. 95 pays - now that I don't lie - a year, a year and a half? And all of a sudden, we're going to reappear here with your incentive to open up again and change what we've been debating for hours and hours, and we're debating it again. And maybe if we don't discuss it for another hour now, we just need to discuss other laws that are more necessary than changing something that lasts a year and a half in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point is that of Mr Svoboda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u67	Just very briefly. Even after a year of law enforcement, we can see how the problem of practitioners increases, how their numbers change. And, of course, I see my colleague Kasal, who's abject when I talk like that, but I'm also talking about going to a pediatrician with my children myself, and I know how it works. The other thing is writing nurses in the department. That's not what the hospital's management is making up. If you want to have a high-quality hospital and fight to get international accreditation, for example, all these papers will be ordered to you. You're gonna do sister documentation, write it, and you're gonna have to do it. It's nothing about it being wrong. Very likely to guard the safety of the process is important, but all the other things that are there remain the same. And I'm actually in that department from morning to lunch, sometime until night. And sometimes I'm not there, I'm here. But I don't think the days I'm not there, the sisters write less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. Another point of fact - Mr David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Docent, through Mr President, I respect you. Anyway, I'm gonna say it to the fullest. For your governments and for your Mr Cabrnoch's work, pediatrics have been divided - on purpose, for political reasons and for financial reasons. Who's in charge of pediatrics practical? Dr. Cabrnochová, Mr. Cabrnoch's wife. What more do you want to add to that? I respect you. Still, I have to say, yes, I've been a pediatrician for 25 years. You've been a gynecologist a lot longer. I'm sorry, I'm never gonna talk to gynecology. And as for the things that have already been said here, it's always up to the head of the department to allow what's going to be written there. There's a framework. And I never let any unnecessary paperwork be written in my department. There was a lot of pressure on me, but I never let that happen. So it's always up to the head of the department and not the department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. Another in the general debate is Mr Martin Baxa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u71	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. In my contribution, I decided to deliberately lift the glove that the Prime Minister threw, and to comment specifically on what some members of his government are doing and how they are fulfilling the programming declaration, in this case the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, in those 637 points or in their respective parts. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin my contribution towards the absent Minister of Culture, Antonín Staňek. And I would begin by saying that Antonín Staněk is a particular phenomenon in this government. For one thing, when we are discussing the government's trust at the moment, the Minister does not consider it necessary to come to the Chamber of Deputies during the entire time of today's meeting day in the order of the minutes and even now that I am speaking with the contribution that concerns him. Mr Vice-President, I do not propose interrupting the meeting until the presence of Minister of Culture Staněk, because I think that the fact itself about his absence is indicative of the kind of relation the Minister has to the ministry he directs and to the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. [[The President gongs several times. There are several Members coming to the hall, and there is a lot of noise in the hall.]] And the second reason I consider Minister Staněk to be a special phenomenon is that Minister Staněk was appointed to this government as the nominee for social democracy a year ago, but today he is no longer a social democracy in this government. I'd say he's some sort of nominee for the fourth coalition party, which probably has already appeared after today, and that's the castle party. I mean, the party that nominated Minister Staněk to this government does not want him in this government anymore, but Minister Staněk still remains in the government. Well, I think it's definitely a very strange phenomenon. How did this happen that the Minister in the Government was behind social democracy, today he is no longer behind social democracy and still remains a minister? So let me remind you of some basic data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u72	Mr. Ambassador, you made a procedural motion, and I'll take a vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u73	No. It is precisely that I have not made a procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I said I didn't want it because it's what Minister Staněk's relationship with the House talks most about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u74	And Minister Staněk is here, so he has a very positive relationship with the House. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Minister, thank you for coming. I have just said that you were the nominee of social democracy in this government a year ago, and today you are no longer the nominee of social democracy, because your own party does not want you in this government, and I would therefore like you to hear my assessment of how you are fulfilling the programming statement as the nominee for castle fourth coalition party. Back to what I said. Minister Staněk after the public pressure, after the so-called Easter executions he executed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u76	Copy that. I will ask the Chamber of Deputies, even though I have called you to a vote which I thought we were going to pass, so I apologise to you with this and ask those who want to be present at the meeting in this Chamber to keep their voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u78	Sorry, it's not quiet enough yet. I think we can wait a little longer. We have time. We still have 19 applications... And please, you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u79	So I will just recapitulate why Minister Staněk has been nominated by social democracy and no longer represents social democracy in government today, although he is still a minister. On May 15, Minister Staněk announced his resignation, mainly on the basis of public pressure created after, I said, Easter executions, i.e. after suddenly calling off the director of two key state institutions. The Minister announced his resignation on 31 May. By the very very nature of that word, it would be expected that on June 1 he no longer wanted to be in Nostical Palace, but he still is. He is still a minister, even though he has lost both his own party's trust and, above all, the cultural public. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you that the petition for the departure of Minister Staněk was signed by almost 10,000 people, most of whom were representatives of the cultural public, many professional associations, people who enjoy great respect in the field of culture. I chose one quote, this time from the field of film associations, which issued a statement: We do not want the Ministry of Culture to run an incompetent person who, through his unprofessional interventions, threatens the activities of state cultural organizations. How did Minister Staněk respond to this public statement, this pressure? He went to see Mr. President, the President did not accept his resignation on 28 May, and Minister Staněk instead, in line with his resignation, remained the Minister. Social democracy responded by making, in my opinion, a desperate attempt to nominate the successor of Minister Michal Šmarda. I criticized this step in relation to the fact that the dismayed Ministry of Culture department would in my opinion need rather an expert, a person who knows the problems very well, but today it turns out that my comment was actually useless, because Minister Staněk remains in office and the nominee for Minister of Culture Mr Šmarda will not see the keys of the Nostický Palace, both probably from public appearances so arranged by President Zeman. So just an introduction to why Minister Staněk is still a minister, and I would like to recapitulate, as I said at the beginning of my speech, how Minister Staněk dealt with the government statement. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will quote directly from the government statement and I have selected some points relating to the Ministry of Culture. Point number one. We'll raise the Ministry of Culture's budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u80	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you're right. The noise in the hall, though not so much of us here, is big enough after all. Now I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u81	It wasn't, Mr. Vice-President, the noise in the hall, it was the noise of the minister here, who was making some kind of quick arrangements behind my back. We'll raise the Ministry of Culture's budget. - Between 2018 and 2019 the Ministry of Culture's budget has really increased. The Minister often presented this, but forgot to say that this increase in the Ministry of Culture's budget mainly swallowed up the salary increases in the contribution organisations set up by the Ministry of Culture, that is, what the previous government decided and what the Government's decree should be. There has not been any increase in living art money in this year's budget, in support of cultural institutions that are not established by the Ministry of Culture, there has been only a very minimal increase in money to repair cultural monuments, actually no new money in the Ministry of Culture has appeared. I therefore proposed amendments to this year's budget, which should at least heal this poor state a little. It was in the amount of state budget money and, in particular, in the amount of money in the budget due to economic prosperity, on which the government has no merit, is flowing. It was even only 300 million crowns. And I think that not only Members here, but especially the cultural public responded very sensitively to the fact that the Minister himself voted against adding only CZK 300 million to the budget of his department. In the same way, he responded to my colleagues' amendments. The minister, after he was under heavy pressure, over the course of this year he added some tens of millions to individual subsidy programmes, but at the time of the budget possibilities that this government has, it was really small. I also read from public sources what the Ministry of Culture's budget for next year should look like. This year's 14.780 billion, the approved one, for next year's 14,360 billion. So, instead of raising money, Minister Staněk will have to, probably thanks to President Zeman, remain in the government, cut CZK 420 million, which in the resort, where every CZK 10 million plays its part, is absolutely crucial in my opinion. So the promises will remain heard. Item from programme statement number two. In view of the crucial role of culture in the development of a democratic society, we will increase the salaries of public cultural sector employees by the end of the term of office in 2021 to a level corresponding to the level of civil servants in education or social services. - That's a very ambitious plan. Minister Staněk comments on a number of things, but I have not heard any of his comments recently, i.e. that he would have fought for the salaries of employees in culture. If the Prime Minister and Minister Plaga fulfil their promises, which I will be talking about in a moment, the employees in education should have a salary of CZK 45,000 in 2021. So, Minister, I ask you whether cultural workers will have a salary of CZK 45,000 in 2021, or if you will also fulfil the programming declaration in this section, which concerns such a dramatic increase in salaries. And I want to stress that, of course, I think that salaries in culture should be increased and that often educated employees of the Ministry of Culture are still working very low for salaries. Point three. We will continue to support projects in all areas of cultural life in the regions through grant programmes. As far as possible, the state budget will gradually increase the allocation of funds in individual programmes for living arts, as well as in the area of conservation or memory institutions. The possibilities of the state budget, as the budgets of the past years have shown, are huge today. Several hundred billion extra crowns have flowed into the state budget over the last years, but there is no increase in the Ministry of Culture subsidy programs, or it is a small increase. So I don't really see any progress here either. I have called, heard the desperate voice of cultural associations, a round table to finance culture during May this year. A representative group of representatives of individual spheres of cultural life met there. Everyone complained about the lack of money, everyone complained about the thin budget of the Ministry of Culture, which when I read here that, according to the state budget, the increase should be dramatic, I must say again: this point of government declaration in the field of culture not fulfilled. Next point. The contribution organizations established by the Ministry of Culture are among the traditional fundamental pillars of Czech culture and make up its display cabinet. - And now I'm begging especially for your attention. - We will respect their professional sovereignty and artistic and creative freedom and support their activities in a versatile manner. - I have to say that I had to read it twice in a government statement because I didn't believe in the context of what happened in the Ministry of Culture's organisations in the past months, my own eyes. [[19.20 hours]] So what did Minister Staněk's respect for professional sovereignty and artistic and creative freedom look like? On April 18th of this year, from one minute to another, the directors of two key memory institutions in our country, the National Gallery in Prague and the Museum of Art Olomouc were removed. It happened without prior warning, it happened on the basis of very poor arguments, which - and this is remarkable - have changed very much over time. There was talk of controls that were not actually completed. There were reports on the website of the Ministry of Culture that were subsequently downloaded, some of their parts were blackened. At the special meeting of the subcommittee on culture, where we were supposed to do this, the Minister made some arguments that were different from what was mentioned at the Easter press conference. Just the minister executed the execution on two directors and never gave any reason why it did so. I was approached by expert circles of desperate people who wanted to know what was going on in these institutions, and they were mainly concerned about what was going to happen to these institutions. So far it has been that the head of the National Gallery was built by an authorised director, whose qualifications were, among other things, that he managed Agrofert Group bakeries in Slovakia for several years. And it seemed that even the appeal of these directors wasn't quite right. I would especially like to stop by the appeal of the director of the Museum of Art Olomouc, Mr. Mgr. The Soukup, when I, to the mountain downstairs to discuss the arguments that were sent to me, found nothing there that would justify the Minister's radical quick move. The Minister said that the main reason for this was illegal actions in the tender procedure for the Central European Forum, which the government even has in its programming declaration. But then I found out that the previous director Professor Zlatoval Zatloukal all the steps he had taken, agreed by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance. There is pure speculation - I would like to stress - that the Minister may have brought some personal disputes, personal animosities from the time he performed the mayor's office in Olomouc, and at the very least I must say that the Minister did not dispel any doubt that the appeal of Director Soukup was a kind of personal vendetta against this person. I'm talking about two institutions where this has already happened. I read yesterday or the day before yesterday, please don't take my word for it, on Twitter, on the Twitter account of Minister Staněk, a message. I quote briefly: "I am concerned about the situation in the National Theatre and we will deal with the situation." The context of this Twitter was that the Minister met one of the leading opera singers who had met with President Zeman before, and a particular coincidence was that a large press conference took place today, where the National Theatre's trade unions began calling not only after personnel changes in one of the National Theatre's files, but started calling directly after a change in the position of Director General of the National Theatre. So I would certainly like to ask the Minister whether the National Theatre should be the third cultural institution where the Ministry of Culture will respect professional sovereignty and artistic creative freedom, as I quote from the government's programming statement. Only such a marginal detail is that the Minister has recently signed a memorandum on the so-called resignation. The blobu, the construction of the National Library in Prague, with Eliška Kaplicka Fuchsová, which can be interesting in itself, but as traditionally speaking with the Minister of Culture, there was no specific information, so maybe the minister will tell us whether or not the famous blobu will be built by the famous architect Kaplický na Letná. So much for the Ministry of Culture's attitude towards its contribution organizations. Next item in the government statement. We will establish rules for the selection of directors of these institutions, in which we will respect the expertise and reputation in particular. We will prepare the law on public cultural institutions as an alternative to the existing contribution organisation. - I'll start from the end. The VKI Act - a year from the Ministry of Culture, not a word, not a line, not a suggestion. So I do not blame it entirely, because if such a law existed, it would probably be difficult for Minister Staňek to allow the personnel steps he has taken in recent months. And as far as the rules for selecting directors of these institutions are concerned, I must say that they seem almost ridiculous to me. Minister Staněk, on his way out - not on his way out, he's doing something around the National Gallery tender. One day there will be a report that the Minister has dealt with a group of experts, and then he claims that what his own party has given him was just a political step and that he does not really want to hold a tender. That he would wait for what the professional public would say, which I don't know how much he wants to talk to Minister Staněk. Just chaos, confusion, nothing concrete, nothing convincing. Next item in the government statement. We will prepare a long-term programme of investment support and co-financing of a cultural infrastructure project that would allow the construction of new cultural facilities for the provision of public cultural services throughout the country. - Here I must say that this programme has been created. That is certainly to the honor of the Ministry of Culture. It's just missing money. Then we will see how Minister Staněk will cope with the support of regional cultural infrastructure from this programme in the next year's planned cuts, once there were 200 million in it and who knows how much money will be in it for the next year. Next point. We provide digital passportization of a collection of the most valuable national cultural monuments. We will prepare a new law on state conservation and focus on the antiquities export regime so that these standards meet the real needs. - I'm asking the minister, just speaking. Where's the new landmark law? I asked for this last year at the subcommittee meeting, where the Minister presented his plans, members of the subcommittee as well. The information was contradictory - will be a big amendment to the existing law of monuments or will be a new law of monuments. Now I've somehow noticed that there should be a new law of monuments. But we don't know anything specific about such a crucial standard. Among other things, at a time when a controversial version of the new construction law is being prepared, which immediately affects the conservation of the land of our state. The Minister also sometimes talks about conservation in such a special way. I found his quote from when he was presenting his priorities to the President in the area of conservation and when he said: It is necessary to be careful when conservation is a little abused. The municipalities that could invest and give funds to repair will somehow try to move it to conservation care. - I don't understand the sentence, but what it means is a little abuse of conservation, I have a big question mark. Next point. We will prepare an amendment to the copyright law in which we implement the expected EU copyright directive. - That's what happened. This can be said to have been the success of the Ministry of Culture, the Minister. Next point. We will pay attention to the transformations of the audiovisual sector in order to fulfil cultural, social and social services. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I beg your attention: We will maintain the current status of public media, we will consistently support their independence. - We will consistently support their independence. I will mention only a small moment from the pre-Christmas time when the Minister participated, in quotes, baptism or presentation of Mr Grebeníček's book, whose political party is an inconvenient critic of public television. And I must say that, in the context of this sentence in the programming statement, I actually remembered when Minister Staněk's words were spoken in defence of public media when it was mentioned in the government statement in the cultural section that the independence of public media would be consistently supported. And I have to say, I didn't hear anything. I did not hear any speech by the Minister of Culture at the moment when words were heard here in the Chamber of Deputies, which directly attacked, for example, the very essence of freedom and independence of the public media from Mr Valenta here. [[19.30 hours]] Finally, the last point: The agenda of churches and religious societies will continue to be in the spirit of the Ministry of Culture, with the exception of the payment of financial compensation to support their activities. - That's what's happening so far. But I would like to emphasise another thing, namely that the Minister of Culture was the one who clearly defended publicly here in the House approved taxation of church restitutions on the proposal of the third of those coalition parties, that is, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, and when he even publicly defended this step, which, in my opinion, is scandalous for various reasons and when, I firmly believe that the Constitutional Court will prevent this from happening. So the minister was the one who defended this. I've left out some of the sub-points from this programming statement, ladies and gentlemen. But not because they are fulfilled. I wanted to point out how the main points of the programming declaration were fulfilled. I leave aside the fact that Minister Staněk has probably completely given up the fight to bring the budget of the Ministry of Culture closer to that one percent of the budget as discussed. koneckonců all, in one interview, the Minister even felt that the budget of his department was 1.8 percent. That, Minister, is 0.76% of the budget approved this year. I would say, if I should sum up this part, that in the case of the Ministry of Culture and Minister Staněk's department, it is not really possible to talk about fulfilling the programme statement. The vast majority of the goals that the government of Andrej Babiš herself has introduced into its programming declaration have not been met and this is also very clear on the state of Czech culture. I was one of the departures of Minister Staněk by commenting on the fact that Antonín Staněk proved by his action that he did not understand Czech culture, had no relation to it, and never should have become Minister. I have no reason yet, and I am unfortunately saying this in relation to Czech culture, to change this view of its effect. We will see how the situation in the Ministry of Culture will be dealt with further, but I do not see much perspective. And now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to devote myself to the Education Department of the Minister of Plaga for a shorter period of time. Minister Plaga, unlike Minister Staněk, spoke here and presented the fulfillment of the programme statement in his department. I would like to say that unlike the Ministry of Culture, like Mrs Černochová, who also stated in some parts positive steps in the department that several important things in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports have succeeded. There is a clear effort to increase the budget of the Ministry of Education, one can see the Minister's targeted interest in his department. And, after all, in his speech, Minister Plaga documented a number of these actions that he had taken. I would therefore like to say that at least some part of the Minister's work at the head of the Department of Education is positive and that these are steps that simply aim at improving the situation in Czech education. However, I would like to point out a few points in the Government's programming statement, which, in my view, are not yet fulfilled in the education department. Or are not - where it is indicated that it may not be fulfilled. To be exact. The first point is education salaries. I intend to use the term "wage" in education. It is therefore the salaries of employees who fall within the scope of the Education Act. I would like to point out that this is directly a government priority. Therefore, my reservation will not be directed towards the Minister, but towards the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed that maintaining wage growth in education is a key government priority. However, I would like to point out at least two warning moments that may cause us to worry that the government declaration for 2021 will not be fulfilled. The first was that the Chamber of Deputies clearly called on the government to increase salaries from 2018. The opportunity was in September 2018 and the government did not fulfill it. Teachers' salaries have not increased until 1 January 2019, and there has undoubtedly been some mistrust of the teacher's status towards the promises that have come. The salaries for this year have been increased. We can, of course, discuss whether it really was the 15 percent that the Prime Minister is still talking about. It wasn't that real. If we take examples from different regions, from different schools, you will learn different numbers from teachers. But what was the big warning was the situation that took place here in the Chamber of Deputies on 26 and 27 March. On 26 March, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a narrow majority of the resolution binding the Government to increase the salaries of teachers to 130 percent of the average wage by 2020. It was a commitment, if he had been approved then, it would have been a very strong commitment from the Chamber of Deputies to the government. However, the Prime Minister may not have liked this in some way, so quickly, the next day of the sitting, the 27th, the majority that this resolution was repealed by bending the Rules of Procedure of the House of Commons. It raised really big question marks back then. Does this government really want to fulfill its programming declarations and increase teacher salaries on the promised 45,000 in 2021? The preliminary draft state budget shows an increase in teacher salaries by 10 per cent from next year. We have to believe that's what's going to happen. But I just want to give these two examples here as a warning that the Prime Minister's promises have, I would say, such a limited durability. And we will be careful to see if this will happen in the case of teacher's salaries. The next item in the Government's programming statement is: in cooperation with the founders of schools and school facilities of regional equipment, we will reduce unnecessary bureaucratisation of regional education and strengthen the position of director as manager. - I have to say, it is my opinion that, until recently, a teacher and a person following the education sector has not done much in debyrocratization. In his speech, the Minister said that the application of templates is such a debyrocratization measure. I do not share this view, and I think that the level of bureaucracy that goes to Czech schools is still highly above what Czech schools are capable of abducting. Likewise, my great concerns are linked to the next item in the programming declaration, and this is the financing of regional education. Government statements claim that in the regional declaration we will support the introduction of a transparent, administratively undemanding method of financing. - The Minister postponed the financing reform by one year. Today, the Ministry of Education claims that this was the time when schools had the opportunity to adapt to this new funding system. I have reports from the field that are very contradictory. I am particularly concerned about what the start-up of the system or changes in regional education funding will mean in practice. Already there are concerns about whether all hours will be paid, whether it will be possible to keep dividing classes. I am not saying that this will really end in disaster, but I also have no reason to believe that this will actually happen and that this reform of funding will be implemented. We'll keep a close eye on that, too. Minister Plaga focused mainly on financial issues in his speech. I mentioned at the outset that the list was representative, in many ways very positive. However, I missed some parts of the Minister's speech regarding non-financial changes in education. They concern the way in which inclusion will continue in schools in general. The amendment may have brought some changes to the inclusive decree. But I don't think she's fulfilled all the expectations, especially when it comes to debyrocratization. The Minister first bravely resisted the pressure of the Regional Association to introduce the so-called cut-off score with my and our maximum support, because I think the measure was clearly wrong. On the other hand, however, he gave way to the captains in that the founders would be able to decide on the capacity of schools, which has so far been the responsibility of directors and which is not entirely in line with the fact that the position of directors, as is in the government statement, will be strengthened. We also have a discussion on the reform of graduation exams. I think that the power of the position with which the Minister will go to the House will be tested by the extensive debate that will be here. And I firmly believe that the Minister will hear the votes that are going to reform the maths. [[19.40 hours]] The Minister spoke of the fact that money was found to finance so-called. Overlays in action, or in kindergarten education, that's true. However, it is clearly lacking, and this is the commitment of a government declaration, sufficient capacity for kindergarten schools to use national and European financial resources. As a Member, I am often addressed especially by the mayors of those suburbian parts of cities and the agglomerations of cities where these capacities are lacking. I also see no progress in the reform of vocational education. I have not yet heard a strong view of how vocational education should be reformed. I must therefore say that I was surprised today in the speech of the Minister of Industry and Trade and Vice Prime Minister Havlíček by introducing a new subject of technology into schools. I thought that Minister Plaga, not Minister Havlíček, would decide this here, and that this should not primarily be the step of a person who is not in charge of education. I have great reservations about new subjects. There were various ideas here, ideas to introduce compulsory education in schools, to introduce techniques, to return some of the subjects that were before. These are all matters for discussion, but probably in the Ministry of Education, not the MIT. I also warn about how the further functioning of private and church schools will be ensured. Government statements ambitiously aim to ensure a fair system of funding for public, private and church schools and to promote effective regulation of the school network. I am therefore convinced that the effective regulation of the school network is not that the Ministry has, until recently, rejected a large majority of the proposals for setting up non-public schools, as has been introduced by Minister Valachová. There may be light at the end of the tunnel, but we will be watching closely. As well as discussions relating to the introduction of funding for teacher training and, in particular, how to solve a long-term problem in the field of education. I agree with Minister Plaga that education should continue to remain not a government priority, that is, the matter of the government of Andrej Babiš, but that education should remain a House priority, because the future of our country without education reform may not be. There are clear warning signs. Recent statistics have shown a high average teacher age, a relatively high percentage of unqualified and unapplied teaching in Czech schools. Regional differences in the quality of Czech education are a major problem, and clear data show this. There is certainly also a system of uniform entrance exams for high school, the introduction of compulsory mathematics graduations, there are a number of problems. And I hope that the promises will be fulfilled and that the area of education will be a priority, I stress in the House, and that there will be no repeats of those cases where the House has agreed on something in the interests of Czech education, and then it was cancelled the next day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u83	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ministers, my colleagues, I listened carefully to the previous speaker, how he did not leave the thread dry on the government. And, of course, I understand completely. He's in opposition, and that's part of it. I'd understand everything if he didn't give a little false information. He's saying that Minister Staněk should repent because church restitutions have been taxed here. It's a weird term! But we didn't tax church restitution here, but replacements! Weird refunds, which have been calculated financially, are proposed to tax them. So it's not restitution, it's compensation. That's just one of the terms. Then I'm surprised, or maybe I'm not surprised that a colleague from the ODS doesn't want the Minister to be praised for preventing the tunneling of companies that set up the Ministry of Culture, when he got out of office as CEO of Fajt, and Amnesty International, which is certainly not an organization that the Minister controls or would be related to, has confirmed that these things are happening here. Apparently, the tunneling is so rogue that you don't want to criticize it. I understand. I, on the other hand, commend the Minister. Great! Mr. Secretary, they called you off because the square was able to organize it by calling you off. But we should commend you for that, since the Amnesty International came along with the fact that it turned out that way. So I just want to do a little bit of fixing the things that my colleague here said. And about Czech Television - that's the TV that runs the investigation that a colleague recently filed? [[Attention on time.]] Is that the public one? Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u84	Congressman, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. I have two more factual points here. Mr Marek Výborný and Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just for a very short time, through you to Mr. Foldyn. Some strange compensation - I think the Member knows very well, he was right about the remark, that is true, yes, it is really about taxation of financial compensation. But they're not some weird substitute! We have a law here, we have contracts here, clearly calculated. So, my colleague, the rhetoric, like, some weird replacement, really not! Yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to respond to my colleague, Mr Foldyna. I think we're all losing Mr. Staněk, the Social Democrats, Mr. Babiš, Mr. President today. I just don't know if it's the heat, or if my colleague Foldyna has yet to register as a member of the ČSSD, one substantial piece of information that we haven't called off Mr. Staněk. pan Staněk called off the ČSSD from his position as minister. Not us as the sněmovna. So maybe if he's fixing up my colleague here again, I'll take the liberty of fixing up Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u89	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, Members of the Government of the Czech Republic, Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a speech in which I am very happy to sum up what has succeeded in the office of the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic in the year of my work, and I will also say what has failed. Because, of course, it's normal, we're all human, and if we didn't make mistakes, we'd be machines. However, the horrors and disasters that Mr President, the honourable Member, Mr Baxa, has rained upon me, so maybe I would start with some of the reactions that I have managed to note first. Because it was very, very much. Easter executions. So, Mr Baxo, through Mr President, I am not going to be completely specific at this point and I am very happy to say these specific things to you outside the microphone. But maybe I'll think about the relationships of some people who may not be completely unknown to you. He's one senator for the Civil Democratic Party, and he's one lawyer at the National Gallery writing interesting contracts for the Director-General. You don't know what? Well, I'll give you some details off the mike. So I'd be very careful if I defended some of the matters relating to the National Gallery. [[19.50 hours]] With regard to Easter executions, esteemed colleagues, the Ministry of Culture establishes 29 contribution organisations. And if every such contribution organization worked like the National Gallery, I can tell you that your catastrophic vision of culture would really be fulfilled. Because I can't imagine the only common simple person in this country who could afford to tell his chancellor - because he doesn't have the chancellor because he can't afford it - to sign him a reward of CZK 1,120 000, because he simply wants a salary, he wants it, and he will have it at any cost. No one prevented the Director-General from giving up his post if he felt the reward he was receiving and received by other directors of the contribution organisations was insufficient. Don't be mad at me, but I believe that we all know how we are here that we sometimes have to act with regard to the law. And I didn't call off Mr. CEO of Fajt without giving a reason. I've clearly formulated the reasons. And now for that strange subcommittee on culture. Well, I'll tell you about that, too. Usually subcommittees are private, so I can say what I really want to say, what I need to say and what I have to say. Exceptionally, however, this subcommittee was suddenly public. The Minister of Culture was expected to respond. I'm sure he'll protest because he wants to hide something. No, I didn't protest. I have asked my colleagues to vote for a public subcommittee. But, of course, you understand, Mr President, that in front of television cameras and other recording devices when proceedings are under way, which are carried out by law enforcement authorities, some things simply cannot be said. So you deprived me of the opportunity to tell you, members of the subcommittee, everything that was important. On the contrary, my opponents, my critics, could have told the truth there as well as they could. So there is only one Easter execution - I called off the director who broke the economic rules, who simply broke the law, and no more and no less. And if you have any comment, Mr President, on the person appointed by the Director, you know, perhaps there are economic and economic results behind him. Among other things, there are also findings that the National Gallery's budget for this year is minus 30 million Czech crowns, which were nowhere, that the Indian exhibition was being negotiated, and don't ask Mr. CEO Fajt, ask the people in the National Gallery if this exhibition was to be carried out there or not, because they will tell you that it was an exhibition that belongs in the National Museum rather than in the National Gallery. However, the National Gallery is already committed to several contractual obligations and the exhibition not that it was cancelled, it was not agreed at all. But the money needs to be paid out by the National Gallery. And that sort of thing in the National Gallery, Mr. Acting Director, or the C.E.O., is found today and every day. We're not going to the media, we're not going to the TV. Why? I don't care about dung on Czech cultural institutions. I need culture to be in the public's eyes and in the eyes of all of us here in the Chamber of Deputies in such form and in such a condition that we are willing to give her extra money, but if I am here to dirty her and shit, even rightly, it certainly does not contribute to this. Demise nemesis. Well, yes, I made it clear that if I didn't have the support of my party, I would resign. I wrote that, I handed it over to the Prime Minister, and it was handed over to the President in full compliance with the Constitution. I'm sure you'll admit that the President of the Republic can decide what he decides. Followed by... [[Note off the microphone from the benches on the right.]] Well, that's a question of dispute. The President has not accepted my resignation, he has the right. And we're not gonna communicate, I'm sorry, I got knocked down. However, now I am dismissed in a proper manner and it is a matter for the institutions to decide to decide. However, I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that I am by no means a Minister of Culture in demise, although many media are trying to interpret it this way. Well, I don't know if it's common in Plzeň to hand over keys without handing over anything and wherever you put it and had some specific paper on it, but I don't think that's the way we'd like to put in place here in this country. It would remind me more of the American Klondike, but I think he's close to you, too. What to say next. It's a lot to talk about. Well, maybe the salaries of the employees in the allowance organizations, no raises. Well, yes, this year's budget for the Ministry of Culture is one of the highest budgets in the past, and I agree with you that it is largely due to the funds that went to the salaries of employees in culture. I'm sure we can agree here that all employees deserve a proper reward. We're talking about college-educated people, but I'm also talking about those who work in these institutions in positions other than college. And I can tell you that I'm really sorry that I couldn't convince my colleague in the government, and now I don't mean Minister Schillerová, that we should put forward a proposal for a salary adjustment and move from Table 1 to Table 2 the employees who are just there on the lowest salary. But I'm prepared to do everything we can to make it happen in this year's budget. And when you attacked the draft budget, so far you're just attacking some kind of framework for the budget. And in the beginning, if you noticed it, there was talk of the Ministry of Culture losing CZK 2,200,000 about, plus minus. We are at 420 million today, as you rightly said, and this is what we are able to do when, in the worst case, I cannot convince the Ministry of Finance, to address savings in the operation of the Ministry of Culture, not in contribution organisations. I just don't want to touch employees in museums and galleries because we want to open them up, we want to put space in there so people can get into those galleries so they have educational programs to make it work. I gave a clear order to the Deputys that he would simply not touch on the allowance organizations as far as people are concerned. You've made a list of everything wrong with the Ministry of Culture. You forgot, for example. to the fact that one of the first things I realized was the creation of a National Museum in Nature, where we merged most of the museums that were separate institutions. This complicated cooperation between these institutions and the transfer or dispatch of employees who were e.g. in the museum in Rožnov pod Radhoštěm, to smaller museums. Now I'm gonna look a little further. I've already told you, minus 30 million at the National Gallery, I've already told you. Well, you guys are talking about how I actually made a mistake, because basically they're all the senior directors who are clean as a lily. You know the driving results? I'd be surprised. I don't know them, I'm happy to wait for the results, and I'm not gonna come up with anything that's just not true. [[20.00 hours]] You know, I've been decent for a long time. I always thought decency wasn't a weakness. And my colleagues blamed me. They said, you know, Minister, you do a lot of things. But you're polite, you let the wood bite on you, and they're pooping and shit all over you. Yes, I've made mistakes, I've done some things I might not have done backwards. But which one of you is flawless? Which one of you has never made a mistake? And who could apologize? Are you concerned about the situation at the National Theatre? Are you surprised Mrs. Urbanová took the liberty of coming to me? And, oddly enough, we're putting it in the context of what's going on? However, I find that some information about the National Theatre, financial flows and other things has been appearing for a long time. I have no problem with this, Mr President, because the National Theatre has one huge advantage. He's got a guarantee board. And the guarantee board will decide. But, you know, a member of the guarantee board can't recommend certain personnel items to the director, it doesn't exactly make the guarantee advice, I'd say, completely independent. Blob. You wanted to know if he was gonna stand or not. And the Minister of Demission took the liberty of signing it. Well, I've already explained to you that I'm not the Minister of Demission. And I've already told you, too, I'd like to explain. We did not sign anything more and nothing less than that Mrs Kaplická turned to the National Library and offered that if she wanted to build a new building of the National Library, she would leave all her rights to the documentation she has, the Czech State, Prague and the National Library. And it is at the National Library and on the upcoming working group for the preparation of construction, or at all the intention of whether or not we need a new library building to decide which way to go. It is not a commitment, it is just a very good gesture of Mrs Kaplická, who has decided to grant these rights. And if the National Library decides to go this way, it saves itself an international competition. I don't think anybody can question Mr. Kaplický work. We can have an opinion whether we like it or not, but certainly not question it. Well, we have a memorandum. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It's not my fault, you've been awfully long, Mr President. And even if I have to address you in such a complicated way. [[A note from the diaper.]] I don't have to, but I'm being polite, I keep saying I'm being overly polite. Member, colleagues and colleagues on the right spectrum. I can already see the Member, the club president, as he's about to, has already given himself priority rights. No? Well, then I didn't... No? I want to say one thing. I think that, of course, I'm going back to that again, I've made a lot of mistakes. But I've done, I think, a lot of good. At least you can't blame me in Prague 6 for winning Veleslavín. - Prague 6? I'm not Pražák after all. But it's a six, right? Thank you. Veleslavin. - That we fought for Bertramka, who was pulling, that's a five. My wife and I are trying to enter the meeting in Prague 2 with Vyšehrad railway station. I think there are many towns and villages all over the Czech Republic that know the name Staněk just because we helped with monuments and other things. I think that even colleague Stanjura cannot deny that I have tried to move some things forward. Yes, I'll be blamed for that. It's like Karel IV. he said: you blame me for my concern for my Czechs. You're blaming me... [[He turns to the rapporteur's desk: No, I am looking at you and I am not thinking of you, Mr. Ambassador.]] You're blaming me for my concern for national cultural monuments. You're blaming me for my concern for the sights. Oh, please, that's what our ancestors left us. Unfortunately, since November 1989, too much has not been built to protect in the future. So please don't accuse me of caring for national cultural monuments. I am also looking into the sector of fellow members of the SPD. I am so glad that you directed me to Týn nad Vltavou, where I was able to meet the other rotating auditorium, which simply came out of the love of those people. They built it with their own hands. And today, it needs a big fix. And who was there of you fellow Members who criticize me today? Nobody. [[He turns to the members of the YES: I do not mean from you.]] The ones who are here, the critics. You see, you, Mr Baxo through Mr President, have turned to me for not defending the public media. On the contrary, I did it once. You know, sometimes, now it applies to this, you know, maybe I won't have any more opportunities as Minister of Culture to tell you, so I'm telling you today in such a wide-ranging speech. I stood up for public media. Take a look at the stenogram when I performed here to discuss the annual reports of Czech Television as soon as possible. I got out here and, of course, I got criticized from the other side. But I stood up for that opinion. And the fact that I don't do every single donation doesn't mean I have to agree with him. You know, sometimes those citizens should be protected after all. Well, I won't hold it up, but I've got about 20 pages left. Well, here we go, one side I'm supposed to be exhausted, the other side I'm supposed to be exhausted. So, and the V.K.I. Act. Well, that's a guinea pig, that's great. Thank you for the tape. We've already got the VKI bill ready. Yeah, but the union guys looked at it and they say, Mr. Secretary, it's a millennia tunnel. Well, he's a good idea. You know why? Well, since the three founders, move it away from the state, bring it into red numbers and then sell the land, I think the National Theatre has a lot of land here after Prague, which might be in an interesting way to monetize, and strengthen the National Theatre's budget. So if it's VKI, it's only in a situation where it's completely clean. And I think that the comments made by the Treasury are completely factual, absolutely clear, and they reveal the hidden intention here better than anyone else could. So V.K.I., don't play that with me. What else do we have? [[Laughs in the hall.]] Church agenda. [[Let's hear it.]] Sure. Staněk, he's the one who wants to stomp those churches under black ground, and he's the only defense attorney here. I have spoken here as the only defender of the Czech Social Democratic Party programme. We had it on the agenda, we went ahead with it before the last election period, and we didn't make it to our voters. We didn't have the guts. That I was the Minister of Culture - because who else would defend it? So I was just defending it here. And I'm not saying I can agree with you on some things. But I'm not saying everything was okay. Let's see. And I'm not going to discuss this in detail right now. I think it's a problem that may finally be solved by the Constitutional Court. That's what it's for, and I'd be very happy to end it, the whole feud. But don't think of me as defending the social democracy program. Unfortunately, sometimes it is that our program is such that others turn to it, and then we get caught for it. But all I did was keep the promise we made to our constituents. I'm not even gonna worry about you saying we didn't raise money. Just money in the budget went to monuments, went to what our ancestors left us. And I'm in our budget... They didn't - you know what? They didn't go to the small monuments of the village. But that was the Department of Agriculture program, the chapel, and these things. [[20.10 hours]] We're ready today. I was with Mr Polčák. There is a program that we want to put together, and we just want to do a system approach. Not that someone in the village will choose which chapel they will repair and decide whether it will be a million more or a million less. No. We want a clear agenda. We want to make it clear that we can continue systematically, not throwing money into the stairs with a pitchfork. We've filled other programs. We have strengthened the programme of support for professional theatres, because I know - and you've kind of overlooked here that I was also the mayor, I know, it's not appropriate, because as mayor, I've been fighting for four years, four years, with every increased crown, I had to give it from the city's budget. And that there's manure on me today in Olomouc? Let them see what kind of budget Olomouc has for the Moravian Theatre Olomouc! One of the biggest. And I'm proud of it. Does it bother anyone that I called off Director Soukup? We've released 600 million crowns to the government to build a SEFO. If you look at it, and it's written there - from the beginning the contest was rigged for one participant! From the top! So why is he resisting the whole time running the Museum of Art to change that? We went as far as possible to meet them, and they're gonna send us another piece of land that's overpriced again, and when we asked the director to send us a description of the public interest, what he sent wouldn't even fit as the work of some crazy man on the town hall who went crazy and decided to make himself visible. It was just a disgrace! Shame! I'll tell you what's going on! It's the only thing! They've been waiting all along because the signals that I'm being called off have been the whole time. They were waiting for Stanka to be Staněk off, and then they built the whole thing. I said never! And that's not bad. I'm defending 600 million of our taxpayers' tax dollars. And speaking of culture. Yes, a living culture doesn't have to like me. Yeah, we didn't really boost the programs for cultural activities and these things. But you just know that if there's two, three, four billion extra in the Ministry of Culture's budget, it's almost like health care, it's gonna be a black hole, except in the health department, the minister has one advantage - he can compare how much one or the other machine costs. This isn't really working in the culture. But I think that if these programs are good, if those projects are good and capable, those people can find support in the regions. They can find it in villages, they can find it in benefactors and other people who want to support culture. Why is he just supposed to be that cash cow? In conclusion... You want to hear it? So we sent all this to the Prime Minister. [[shows materials]] And that is all that has been done at the Ministry of Culture this year, including the fact that, together with Mr Birke, we have prepared a law on conservation, which I wanted in June, if I did not have to deal with other things, I wanted to send it to the Chamber of Deputies in June. And we're all here, or you were, deputies, and you know it's been discussed across. That means, we're done, it's ready, and other things are ready, so don't put me in the dog's head. I say again, I'm not without mistakes - but who is? One last comment about why I had to apologize, and maybe an explanation about the Minister in resignation. You know, I said, of course, I respect the decision, and I know I'm being called off, but I'm not going to sit in Nostice -- maybe I should have locked up -- I don't know which one of those undersecretaries to switch powers, but I'm probably gonna get locked up anyway -- and get the hell out of here. I wouldn't leave. Unfortunately, I would still be in the Chamber of Deputies, and I will certainly keep an eye on those things. But I work there because, you know, the taxpayer pays the ministers, and from time to time, or often enough, he talks about us being expensive. I guess we are. I don't know. But while I'm there, I'm working. Today there was a meeting with my Bavarian colleague in Řezna and we signed a memorandum on cooperation between the National Museum of Prague and the Bavarian House, or the House of Bavarian History, and in 2023 we are preparing a large exhibition between Bavaria and the Czech Republic on the history of our countries. You see, there was one thing I said to the Minister of State there: Culture never divided nations. And I am so glad that these cultural projects are being created. They are a much better way to understand each other and to cover the historical memory, which is unfortunately deep. The blow in our historical memory, after what happened during World War II, is just so deep that it is just too soon to want to make a Sudeton German reunion in the Czech Republic today. Let us prepare the ground for these things in other ways. So that is why I abstained, which is why today I have somehow not honoured the Chamber of Deputies and colleagues in opposition with my presence and I have not listened to significant, factual and constructive comments on the work of this government. To sum it up and add it up. You know, there's gonna be one more punishment for which I'll be executed and shot. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It is when you learn that I have taken the liberty of asking Director Lehmannová at the Lidice Memorial - Mr. Foldyna now expects me to say "no, I will not talk about them." But I'm going to talk about why, when there's a list of people who are nominated, who have come to lay wreaths, why some political parties are not introduced. Because they're not going over someone's mouth right now? SPD, for example. I asked, and maybe someone will mind, I asked why in Ležáky, when the delegation of the Czech Party was socially democratic represented by Mr Chvojka, why it was not introduced. It's just that we're always playing the fair, honest, and flawless thing here. Well, don't worry, I won't call off Mrs. Lehmannová, but we just have to name the mistakes and where we're supposed to be apolitical, let's be apolitical. Where we're supposed to be political, let's be political. And that's probably all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u90	With factual remarks, Mr Václav Klaus, President Stanjura and Mr Ferjenčík are registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u91	Hello. I'm gonna get off again tonight, but I'd like to get off now - with permission - as a unionist. I came to the House at 9:00 a.m., luckily I was busy, but I've already finished it, so I want to ask - what's the point, here's the 40-minute performance of dozens of members of one MP club? I mean, you have a chairman here, a political scientist, so he's gonna say it, then one more young talent gets a chance, the same thing over there, the pirát. [[♪ Fun in the hall ♪]] What's the reason 12 people have to perform for 40 minutes? It's some kind of strategy that at 6:00 a.m.... [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] That more people will vote against the government at 6:00 in the morning? I will also vote against the government and say why. But I just don't understand it as a unionist. So before I go to dinner right now, I wanted to ask if there was any deeper meaning or if it just kind of happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for keeping time. President Stanjura and his two minutes of factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor. Firstly, I would like to appreciate the speech of the Minister of Culture and I am serious. It was the best speech after those, I would say dull, sometimes awkward, sometimes even rude, Minister of Health, performances. Only one mistake I'd blame you for, Minister. Do not expect the opposition to praise and defend you. Expect constructive criticism from the opposition, and then you can defend yourself, possibly give the facts. But look how the Minister of Culture has been standing all along. Like this. [[He's turning right.]] And he kept talking to us. Why not? Minister, who forced you to resign? These guys! [[He's turning and pointing to the left. Laughs in the hall.]] That's where you should have looked. These guys! Who proposed to remove you from the government? This one! [[He's turning to the Prime Minister. Laughs in the hall.]] This one! That's what you're supposed to be talking about! He's clapping for you. The members of the YES are applauding you. [[It shows clapping.]] Excellent, Minister! You suggested his appeal from the government! Not opposition. So wrong! You didn't look well. Totally out of order. The right bowl is on the left, Social Democrats, you haven't convinced them. [[Laughter and applause.]] And the second right bowl is the Prime Minister, you didn't convince him either! He suggested your appeal! Then why are you talking to us, Minister? Wrong. There's no mirror, they really didn't see you. [[Laughs in the hall.]] We don't have a mirror. If you turn to the Prime Minister once in a while, he'd applaud you - well done, Minister! What am I gonna do? I suggest his appeal. Great. A great minister of culture in his own words, but he didn't convince his own party, his own leadership. He is the first social democratic minister to speak. I really appreciate it. The others are somewhere discussing how to get rid of you. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] I think so. The Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister have applauded you, too, and they want to get rid of you! Isn't that weird? Those are paradoxes, Vaňka... Speaking of culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond briefly to the words about the ceremony in Ležáky. I find it undignified for the Chamber of Deputies to launch some conspiracy theory here that the parties were determined who would be read. The organizers just got the paper, and there was someone who represented the House and who represented the wreath, and according to what they reported to the organizers, the organizers read it. Maybe that's why they didn't read my name, but I was on the pirate side and I read the pirate side. It was really purely how the representatives of the parties agreed with the organizers. Please don't get any speculation going here about the fact that parties are censoring themselves from commemorative acts for political reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u97	Thank you for the floor. I have good news for you that the technical note is only two minutes. Two notes. As for my performance, I've already said for starters that I'm too polite. And since, in his speech, Mr Baxa had me in his mouth for a very long time - not in his mouth through Mr President, but in order to explain it to those who do not fully understand it, I tried to speak to Mr Bax, as I am speaking to you now. [[Laughing in the hall]] The fact that I wasn't talking to the other side - don't push me something that many people would like to move. [[left]] I'm not questioning anyone's right to call me off. I don't blame them. I don't blame anyone. And I said I was a member of social democracy. As a member of social democracy, I defended the religious restitution program, although it cost me much of my possible future political career. [[Knocks strongly into the speaker's desk]] OK. And on the last note. You know, there's a principle that works with us. And I'm glad it works in that government. There's a coalition agreement. And in the coalition agreement, the Prime Minister has a duty to do what he did. So you'd probably think I'd be mean to him for doing it, but he just did what he had to do. So much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u98	So we are going back to the general debate to which Mr Jan Čižinský is registered, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, dear neighbors, let's go pour some pure wine. [[Laughing in the hall]] [[Rush and cheer in the hall. Some ANO Members leave the hall with a smile and a note that they are going for wine.]] Let's get some pure wine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u100	Well, I'd like to get more serious after half an hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u101	Let's get some pure wine. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will not resign, his government will not fall today. Andrej Babiš and ANO must be defeated in the elections. But everything to be said has been said here many times. Everyone knows that a field full of chemistry is killing our nature. Everyone knows that grants are mainly taken by giant companies instead of real entrepreneurs and businessmen. Everyone knows that money is not needed for teachers or socially, because money is lost in meaningless subsidies, and that for example. in support of housing is planned right now that it will be much, much worse and that many people will end up on the street. Everyone knows that, after the European climate negotiations, we have a coat of shame all over the world. Everyone knows a lot of other things that Andrej Babiš and his government are doing to this country. But no one has ever offered a better solution to which enough people would vote in the election. So what's the plan? Talk about Andrej Babiš stepping down? None, then? But we all have that plan right in front of us. Last time we saw him was the Million Moments Association. That way, everyone who lives in this country, whoever, is ready to believe that change is possible, and willing to do something for her. In the last few weeks, hundreds of thousands of people have gone to the streets all over the country. Why? Because a handful of active young people led by Mikuláš The miner simply said that she had had had had enough, and she had lost hundreds of thousands of others in her energy. This is also possible in national politics - and not just in it. Six years ago, a few people got angry in Prague 7 and said they didn't want an overpriced town hall. And then they won the election, and then they won it again with 55 percent. And thanks to the trust they have received throughout Prague, they have made it possible to change, and today our entire capital is transformed for the better, without Andrej Babiš and his party. And thanks to the trust they received throughout Prague, there was a group of people with energy, enthusiasm and honesty, and their neighbors understood that. There are many such people all over the country. Either they are already at municipal or other level in politics, or they are simply an active part of civil society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u102	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace! If you want to discuss and talk about things other than trusting or distrusting the government, please do so in the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u103	There must be a network of people in our country who do something when things get tough. These people will bring hope. The policy leading to change is in people, in a broad mass of supporters, volunteers, in enthusiasm. It's the only way to defeat the populists and the president at the castle. This is the way to beat the hundreds of millions of crowns that these people are pouring into election campaigns. That's the way these spoilers are really afraid of. New and enthusiastic people will talk to their neighbors and convince them that change is needed and possible. They can enter politics with a clean slate. Some of them will remain volunteering, and they will be happy to help. Others will become honest representatives, mayors, mayors, captains, or MPs. Do we really want to get better in this country? Let's put new faces between us. Are you specifically asking what to do? We have three important elections - regional, House and presidential. First, we need to push for a change in the county. There's very little time, they'll be next fall. Whatever communities and coalitions form into them must have one thing in common - energy and hope. And that's what the people I was talking about earlier symbolize. And we will help as we can. [[20.30 hours]] Three hundred thousand people came to Letna thanks to a handful. A handful of enthusiastic people have moved Prague. One or two thousand determined ones can move the whole Czech Republic. Regional elections are actually the hardest. It won't be easy, but it has to send a signal that it can. The signal will be important for the elections of the Houses that will come next year. And let's not get illusions. If they produce a result that won't go under the nose of President Miloš Zeman and the people around him, they will sabotage him until the end of the President's term. This is a very important moment. But that's what we have to endure. When Miloš Zeman leaves, it will be crucial who will be elected president after him, whether he will stop dividing society and finally start linking it. And I have one more job on my mind for all of us sitting here today. They say who, if not us, and when, if not now. Let's set up the polling field to play fair play. At one time, the great political parties had the impression that they would conceive their dominant position in politics by introducing an extremely advantageous system for large parties. They're basically getting all the votes they've lost in the election. In other words, the parties to the opposition treaty tilted the electoral field like Sněžka, winning the smaller opponents' goal permanently below the hill. But tonight everyone is playing up that hill except for the YES movement. Let us be clear about the impact of this ancient and outrageous decision by the two dominant political parties. The YES movement in the elections has won 29 per cent of the votes, but it has 39 per cent of the Members. And that's not all. We democratic parties were well aware of this threat before the elections, but we were unable to face it by cooperating. We could have had a completely different government today. And it's not Andrej Babiš's fault. So the least we can do is adjust the law so that everyone gets the same amount of votes out of the flunked. There's nothing to make excuses for. Let's throw away the competition and vote to modify the system so that it's fair. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I want to reiterate that there is a plan. It is simple - to find the best neighbors and neighbors, to show that change is possible, and to get them for our cause, to cooperate, to excite people in this country and to win elections with them. And that's a realistic plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next one is entered in the debate by Mr Ferjenčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to respond briefly to my colleague Klaus, who asked why we are performing here. I think it is appropriate to keep speeches at a reasonable length, but at the same time, I think that, at the moment of the vote on distrust of the government, it is reasonable to explain why the government does not have our trust. So I'm going to try to summarize why the pirát are both in distrust of the government and of the economy. First of all, I must admit that the Czech Republic is doing well at the moment. I think that if the government has any part in this, it is based on a well-known principle: who does nothing, does nothing wrong, and therefore should be rewarded. Indeed, the economic government has done virtually nothing in the last five years, which has also had some positive effects. A relatively stable tax environment that's good for companies. But unfortunately, it also had a number of very negative effects. For example, we wasted five years, when we could move the Czech Republic forward, and instead practically nothing happened. As far as budgetary policy is concerned, the government has resigned from trying to balance the budget. A few more years ago, Andrej Babiš went to the election with the fact that he wanted a balanced budget. Today, even in the long run, it is proposing a deficit of CZK 40 billion, and it is no longer trying to reduce the deficits. If, by any chance, the result of the state's management is better than the plan, it is either because more money has come from the European Union than the government has expected, or because the government has failed to realise the investments planned by the government. But when the government plans investment, it doesn't realize it, and because of it, it has a smaller deficit, it's not a success. This is a failure when the government failed to plan properly what is to be done and failed to do what the government was planning. Unfortunately, budgets are also extremely dependent on labour taxation. So at this point at the top of the business cycle, there's a lot of money. There's been a sharp increase in income tax, social security contributions. But this can very quickly manifest itself in the economic crisis, which threatens us primarily from external factors, in reverse, that once employment falls, we will have a significant problem. According to the National Budget Board, our public finances for the crisis are worse prepared than in 2008. As far as tax policy is concerned, the government is doing virtually nothing. The promised cancellation of the supergross wage did not take place. The promised tax reductions were not made. The promises that the government will introduce a single collection point are only on paper, in a very reduced form. Labour taxation is constantly growing, because, as partly through inflation, wages are growing partly through economic growth, and the rate of taxation is increasing sharply. What is very negative is that it stagnates the collection of corporate tax. Even this year, corporate tax collection is higher in absolute terms despite relatively significant inflation over the last ten years in the aggregate, so corporate tax collection is lower than in 2008. So we're below 2008 corporate tax, which is ten years ago. In fact, the only initiative of a more pronounced nature in the area of taxes, which the government at least submitted to the House, is a rate package that increases taxes by CZK 20 billion roughly, but does not reduce taxes. We see this as a wasted opportunity to reduce the mentioned labour taxation. In the area of pensions, I have prepared one graph to spice things up a little bit at the late hour, and that is the difference between what Prime Minister Babiš says about how much he added to the elderly and how much it really added. [[It's showing a graph.]] Today, there is a valuation scheme according to which the government must increase pensions each January on the basis of parameters written in the law, and it has absolutely no desire for it to do so. This year, the valuation scheme meant about CZK 570 for pensioners with an average pension per month, and next year it is approximately CZK 720. So the amount of 900 crowns that Andrej Babiš is operating all the time is from the vast majority of the amount that the government has imposed by law. Only CZK 330 for this year and only CZK 180 for next year is the result of the amendment of the law. Moreover, the amendment is not merely the merit of the ANO movement. It was very consensual, supported by all the House parties, including the pirát. So this entire House increased pensions last year, so this year they increased, but only a low percentage of income growth is due to an active decision by the Chamber of Deputies. The vast majority is caused by application of the valuation scheme, which means wage growth and inflation growth. In fact, instead of the 1,800 crowns that Andrej Babiš operates on, the House adds 500 crowns beyond what is legally. So much for retirement. That's the short-term situation. [[20.40 hours]] What is worse is that, in the long run, huge deficits are pouring on us due to the retirement of strong population years and, on the contrary, to the labour market of weak population years. And the prediction is just a deficit of about 200 billion. The CZK annually in the pension account and the government is doing absolutely nothing to solve this problem. We are fundamentally opposed to sticking our heads in the sand to address the sustainability of pensions. We don't think it's fair that this entire amount is paid by generations who are still going to school today, and we think it's extremely irresponsible to let it fall on the heads of politicians in ten or fifteen years. That is why we think that the sustainability of pensions needs to be addressed today. We disagree with the privatisation of the pension system, but we think there are ways to save some of that money gradually. One example is that the privatization income fund and state-owned firms - it is a huge mistake to make it a regular budget income instead of using it to stabilize the pension system. I'm getting close to the end. What I consider to be a huge mistake is that the government is not addressing the biggest current economic problem in the Czech Republic, and this is a massive capital drain. Only last year, 293.5 billion were paid on dividends. CZK, and what is very warning, the dividends were reinvested only 120 billion, which is the lowest number since 2013. So every year, the Czech Republic leaves only on dividends of almost 300 billion, which is worse, another maybe up to 200 billion. goes through interest payments, through transfer prices and through a number of other instruments. And if we fail to change this trend that capital is constantly rising, we simply have no chance of catching up with Western Europe. In fact, the only measure that the government promises in this area is the digital tax that we welcome, we think it is right for Google and Facebook to pay adequate taxes on what Czech companies do in the same area, but unfortunately it is a fraction of the problem and it is necessary to address the whole range of measures and I do not see them from the government. This also has to do with the need to transform our economy, prepare it for a period when the work in the Czech Republic will no longer be able to compete with robotization, increase the proportion of companies with higher added value, get our businesses a little higher in the production food chain. Today we are basically sub-contractors of the German industry and work with us several hundred thousand unqualified foreigners who, when the crisis comes, will leave and suddenly cause a huge decline in the revenue of the state budget. So it is necessary to work very hard to change our economy in order to be prepared for the challenges of the future. One important step towards this is the modernisation of our education system, where, apart from raising teacher salaries, which of course we welcome, nothing happens at all. So this is some series of measures that need to be taken. In fact, the only real measure the government is taking in the economic field is the introduction of an EET, which is quite marginal in terms of the economy as a whole, which concerns units of billions of crowns per year, unless the government is making it up. I think he's making it up. But even if she were right, they're just billions of units, and in the context of capital drain, economic transformation, pension system, tax policy, EET is a completely marginal issue. It is not marginal that several hundreds of thousands will make life very difficult. In this sense, of course, it is a strong law, which is why we tried to stop it, or at least to change it significantly, unfortunately, the Minister, who was lashing out here by discussing the opposition terribly, cut all our constructive amendments, so, for example, the paper record remained in a completely useless form, and that was the main instrument of economic policy of the YES movement. I think it's desperately low. It's just a purely peacock thing that won't help the state budget, just to make Andrej Babiš look like he's still the genius tax collector. And on top of that genius tax collector, I would repeat that the collection of corporate taxes, these are the big agriholdings, is 30 percent lower than the growth of the economy over the last 10 years. That's where the big money is, but unfortunately, the carp isn't releasing the pond themselves! That's why the government doesn't trust the pirát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u106	I thank you and with the priority right of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to Mr Ferjenčík. You weren't here when I gave my speech. I feel like I didn't see you there, or maybe you were slumbering at the moment or doing something else, so I'd like to read it again, but I just want to save your time, so I'm just gonna respond to what you said here. You have such a magical quality, we sometimes go to television shows together, so you always pull something out, but you just need to study things in context, I recommend. But you're young, you have plenty of time to graduate, so I'm not afraid of it, and I believe it's just gonna get better in, like, three or four terms. [[Laughter in the ranks of YES 2011 and expressions of disapproval from the Pirates benches.]] Thank you, but I didn't want that, of course. It's just, you know, I love you guys, basically, that I always stop by your desks and talk. There. Public finances. I said that in my speech. Public finances of the Czech Republic are top of the list. In front of us - and you can say whatever you want, look up the last report from the European Commission 14 days old when it evaluated our convergence programme. She said we were pursuing a medium-term structural objective. As for the surplus of public finances, and this year they will still be surplus, next year they will be almost balanced, so there are only two countries ahead of us. And somebody can shoot all the numbers they want. If we talk about government debt, it is always aimed at GDP growth, because it is comparable to other EU countries. When you talk about nominal figures, of course it is incomparable, because other GDP has the Czech Republic and other, for example, Germany. So that's it. And I'm also responding to the fact that we're ready to slow down the economy. Please don't haunt the recession. It's nowhere near at this moment. There's a slowdown in the economy, and we have a pillow created, and we're ready for that. And you mentioned some here, and that's basically, I was talking about it in my speech too, that's the lowest unemployment, besides the health of public finances, it's the lowest unemployment in the EU. You were talking about retirement. I also spoke about it in my speech. Yes, there's some kind of valorization scheme. You must have pointed out correctly that it was the government, I think the first, Andrej Babiš, who prepared an increase in the calculation from 9 percent of the average wage to 10. The fact that it supported the right-wing spectrum here is commendable. That's what I called for in my speech. Instead of beating up the empty straw we're doing here from morning to night, let's work together on laws like this for people. That's what I called after. So if you've supported it, I commend you for it. See, I'm fair. I commend you. So basically, the framework of pension valorization really went up and the government raised it and added it to the sum of 900 crowns. I've been giving examples here that I understand that this is not a pension reform, but it's paying off old debts, at least partially. And we do it twice in a row. And just so you know, the increase in pensions for 2020 is 37 billion, which is basically the whole deficit. So it's just math, now that we're dealing with it. But it's a good thing, because our old-age retirees just deserve it. And if this House as a whole supports it, that's twice as good. [[20.50 hours]] You chose EET, I know you don't like it. I get it. We've talked about him enough. This is not the only system measure for the correct collection of taxes, because even those pensions have to be chosen. Of course, it is the work of our employees, entrepreneurs who pay due taxes, but it is also the introduction of systemic measures, just so that some honest ones do not pay it. And the most fundamental systemic measure is not the EET, but it's a control report. This brought two thirds of the increase in tax revenues compared to the EET, which brought a third. That was the system solution. And basically, it doesn't fit a needle today, because basically they connect, they pair up payments, carousel scams, or strings fall out of the system. Financial administration and it then transmits them to various financial authorities depending on where the idea is. That's how we solved Prague. We have resolved that Prague is not subject to tax control every 350 years and has ceased to be a tax haven. There. And now your favorite dividends and actually raising capital outside the Czech Republic - I had it in my speech - that we do nothing about it, with tax evasion of large corporations, we focus and chase only small ones. But we focus on big fish. The Ministry of Finance through legislation and Financial Administration then through application practice. Look at the househouses, I've been saying this place is record-breaking. In 2018, the tax loss was reduced or the tax base of these corporations increased by more than 18 billion. Crowns. And that year 2018 was successful in this respect as the previous five years combined. We've taken a whole series of measures, I've said it here, which will intensify the fight against tax evasion of large fish. Restrictions on the deductibility of interest from the tax base by a limit of 80 million. koruna or 30 percent ebitda. Taxation of transfer of property without change of ownership abroad, taxation of control of foreign obligations, rules against abuse of tax systems. This year we introduced into the tax package 2019, I feel that you voted for it, including the right-wing spectrum, we introduced special reports for these large companies on dividends paid so that the Financial Administration can better focus - and already has one report from 2016 - on transferring money between related persons, related persons, so that it is actually at a price that is actually normal in time and place. And this is another, and that's the distribution of dividends. But please, let's not forget, let's not forget that payment of the dividend is fine. It's in accordance with the law. If this company has created a profit here, it has paid its taxes properly, so it has the right to withdraw the dividend. Those dividends are actually going to go off for about 400 billion, but - and now I will quote, because we are constantly being lamented about how it is, now I will quote from the data of the Czech National Bank that about half of them are coming back. About 180 billion. those companies reinvest back simply in the Czech Republic. And all this is legal, please. If legal persons pay the dividend, there is an EU dividend directive that exempts it. If physical - we have a withholding tax of 15 percent, if to third countries, we have 35. And of course, we have to distinguish from this very strictly so-called. aggressive tax planning. That means when someone's taking advantage of it. When companies invoice services or marketing. And that's why we're putting in place all these measures so that we can actually give it... And the results are clearly here. Financial management is clearly mine. I guess we're gonna have to talk about it even more so it doesn't fit. So it's not a marginal issue. Well, one last sip on those constructive EET proposals. If you are referring to a constructive proposal of the type to remove space flights from the EET, I would like to point out that mass transport is already exempted in the original EET Act. So I'm assuming space travel would be pushed under mass traffic. And if you were to act for example. About you wanting to take out a satellite in orbit and pay cash, so you have to have an EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u108	I'll read an apology. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes until 22.00 for reasons of work. What do you think? The Minister's speech raised six factual points. So first, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Skopeček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just going to react very briefly. First of all, the pirát use digital technology, so the House runs the Stenoprotocols, for which I thank the writers very much. And it's possible to read your speech in those Stenoprotograms, Madam Secretary, which I did before I had my speech. Your speech today, yes, is already on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, that even though one is not in the room, he can read it in peace. The advantage is there's no noise. And the other thing about the reinvestments. No, Madam Secretary, you're wrong. It's not 180 billion, it's 120 billion. 180 billion. This was in 2017. In 2018, it was only 120 billion. I took the liberty of bringing this issue to your attention. I think it's a 60-billion drop. There's a much more serious economic problem in reinvestments than pinching some businessman if he has an online cash register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u110	Another factual point, Mr Skopeček, will be prepared by Mr Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u111	Thank you very much. I want to stand up for my previous speaker. Madam Secretary, I have respected you so far that our arguments were factual, maybe harsh, but we never slipped to personal matters and we never slipped to argue with it at our age. It seems totally unacceptable to me in the House to use the age argument against anyone from any political party. And please apologize for letting me continue to respect you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u112	Well, thank you. Mr. Výborný, President Bartoš will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to react just as much as my colleague Skopeček. Madam Secretary, we can disagree on a lot of things. We can argue with each other, but please, we're in the House, you're not really in the position of some tutor who trains a naughty pupil here. Point to age, talk about some sleeping etc. Please, let's not do this. And I would really consider it right for you to come forward, as my colleague Skopeček said, and apologize, because this is not acceptable to take place on the premises of this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u114	President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u115	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to react briefly. The fact that there are some Members here during Mr Ferjenčík's speech - I will not name - from the YES movement various monkeys and slides, so when I stepped on the edge here, they left, so thank you for that. And I kind of tolerate that. But I really don't like it when the secretary here is slipping into some kind of gibberish. I would like to say that Mr Ferjenčík and the Members who are here have been elected by the votes of the citizens. They are Members of the Chamber of Deputies, they are not officials who have actually gotten on some wave of loyalty and expertise to the post of minister, and I would not have dropped the expertise of any of these Members in the Chamber of Deputies. It's not just about Mikuláš Ferjenčík. It's just that the position of opposition government control is clear. He's obviously looking for irregularities. And I think we should have this debate on a material level and respond to the arguments. That's Mr. Babiš's style of calling the MPs a boy. Some Members call the girl women in the Chamber of Deputies. I think this should certainly not be heard from the position of ministers towards the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u116	Thank you. And for the moment, the final factual point - Mr Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to join you. Just some of the things that have been said here are not good ladies, and I think the Minister is a lady, so she should respond adequately. Mr Ferjenčík is a duly elected Member. His mandate is exactly the same as anyone's mandate here. So please, let's take this into account. The fact that he was elected by a Member at his age is his plus, his skill. So please, let's either... or let's take this into consideration. It really seemed to me - and Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, the old word I'm about to use doesn't belong to you. It's generally meant. When I was young, I was pretentious. I'm not wrong anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u118	We've exhausted the actual notes. There's no more. So Mrs Balcarová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the actions of the Government of Andrej Babiš in the field of environmental protection and focus on issues such as drought, waste, air protection and climate protection. Then to the water. [[Voices from the O.R., including Minister Brabce: Let's go. Laughter.]] The current government is not taking strong enough steps to protect the landscape from drought. The Minister has been told he's coming, but I'd be very sorry. Because it was heard a few hours ago that the government had a vision of protecting the Czech landscape from drought and that he even felt like a visionary. Which may be misconstruable. And I'd like to respond here to what that vision looks like. At this point, the government is presenting us, or the government is supporting a law called small water structures. It is a law that allows for further uncontrollable concreteization of the Czech landscape in the interests of water retention. The Minister of Transport continues to work towards the implementation of the Danube - Odra - Labe channel. Another project that, according to the visionaries of our government, solves drought in the landscape. The reality is, however, that the Danube - Odra - Elbe channel will only remove water from the Czech landscape, it will not detain it. Another thing is that the Czech government only deals with the consequences of drought, it does not solve its causes. It feeds drought subsidies to farmers, feeding subsidies to water infrastructure pipes, which are supposed to deal with the fact that it is dry in the landscape, that they dry out the groundwater, that there are municipalities that are already water-free. So I'd like the Minister as a visionary in the area of water retention to help me comment on the picture I'm about to show. [[Shows a picture of a dry landscape with the inscription Moravian Desert 2018.]] It's Moravia, summer, 2018. This is the result of our visionary minister's vision. [[Members from the left side of the hall complain that they can't see.]] I'll show you the picture, and I'll show you the Minister. And so that you can all have a good look, I can pass. But I'll put it on your desk and then you can take a look. Did the Minister see a picture enough? [[Minister Brabec: Terrible.]] Excellent. I'd like to read... I downloaded this image on my Facebook page and read a comment that was attached to it. "We rode through a landscape devastated and pillaged by a man, full of parched giant fields, all over the hot and dry summer without any greenery. The soil from which sunlight and energy are reflected back into the atmosphere and significantly increases temperature and drought in the given space. We saw a giant field with giant wind erosion, where the wind carries millions of tons of eagles and deserts are slowly forming in the former fertile fields. This land and this land were left to us by our ancestors. It used to be called black." So much comment. Next thing I want to talk about, it's garbage. We're waiting on waste legislation. We were supposed to get her for vánoce. We were very much looking forward to discussing new laws on the Committee before Christmas concerning the change in access to waste towards a circular economy towards a circular economy, when we will look at waste more as raw material and not as waste. Unfortunately, we still do not have these laws in the Chamber of Deputies, but we perceive that they are significantly weakened in the process of preparing them. For example, the period of authorisation for landfilling until 2030 has been extended. These laws even promote the incineration of waste, under the name of the energy recovery of waste. So this is a vision of how to use waste as a raw material? Support for landfilling and promotion of combustion? And even supporting the construction of new incinerators? In my opinion, it doesn't quite say that we value the raw materials that waste can be. The pirates have a clear motto for this: "The best is the waste that will not be produced. " And we expect the legislation that will come to us in the Chamber of Deputies to enforce this. If not, we will be promoting this by means of amendments. The last topic I have chosen is climate protection and air protection. It's been said many times around here. The Czech Republic has significantly poor air quality. Two thirds of people live in an area with poor air quality. Over 6,000 people die a year as a result of bad air. Thousands or tens of thousands of people are sick, children have impaired immunity. Especially those living in regions with poor air quality, such as Ostrava, Ústí, but also Prague, Brno, Děčín. And the government of the Czech Republic, which should take steps to protect air quality, does not follow its own state energy concept. It still supports the operation of outdated coal-fired power plants, which, according to parameters, could already be shut down and would save a lot of people the problems they may have due to air pollution with fine flying dust. So our government has supported in legislation and air protection exceptions that can be granted to old coal power plants. What else? Furthermore, it does not address the promotion of clean mobility in cities, because transport in cities is another major source of pollution in addition to large industrial resources. We all see it, we all almost suffer. And the Czech Government does not support enough innovation to lead to sustainable forms of transport, to sound forms of transport. The minister, who called himself a visionary, told us that if we supported a European vision called the Pure Planet for all, which aims to make the carbon-free economy climate-neutral in 2050, he said here - I read it again, if I am not mistaken - that, in fact, at that time, there could be no traffic at all, not even passenger traffic at all. So the idea that humanity will not be able to invent transport by 2050 that will not work on the principle of burning fossil fuels seems very sad to me. And I think the visionary should be more ambitious. I think even a much less experienced person in this area can have them. As far as climate change is concerned, I have already come across this fact that the Czech Republic does not support the European vision, which is aimed at a carbon-free economy, climate-neutral, by 2050. We have heard here from the mouth of Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade, and even from the mouth of the Minister of the Environment that the Czech Government is respecting the commitments it has made under the Paris Agreement. But it's not. In fact, our government is not taking these steps. Because if it did, it could no longer support an outdated energy-intensive industry, it could no longer support exemptions for old large coal power plants. Nor could it support the breach of the mining limits at the Bílina mine. There are just many things the Czech government does. And they're all actually going against the direction of a carbon-free economy. [[21.10 hours]] I don't want to talk long. To begin with, I would just summarize that the Czech government does not address water retention in the landscape, soil protection from erosion, both water and wind, and does not take steps to restore the Czech forests. The Czech Government does not address the increase in waste recycling and the reduction of waste materials on packaging. It does not take sufficient steps to improve the air that has a direct impact on our health. And to protect against climate change, I think we all saw it last week when our Prime Minister in Brussels said that he had actually become a block for the European Union to accept a vision called the Pure Planet for all. And you could even hear why he should think 31 years ahead. So these are arguments for me, and they're arguments for the pirát. And that's why the government of Andrej Babiš doesn't deserve pirate confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. One factual point, Mr Hájek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u121	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, I am sorry. My leg was broken, and the doctor recommended that I keep my foot above my head. So I spend most of my time in the office watching a live talk here. Of course, even though I've got my leg up, some things are gonna lift my leg up, not just the pressure. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] I've been in the environment for five years, or almost six years, and I had to leave. I had to leave the committee because what's going on in there today under the leadership of the Prime Minister, that's outnumbering all the boundaries. I've only got one nerve, and the wiser will just back off. I just want to ask, I'm an older person, too, and you've been documenting with this picture that there's been an erosion of one million tons of eagle. Can you count it to acres? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. The honourable Member is referring to a point of fact. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u123	I'll be shorter. If you'd listened to me, my colleague, you'd know that I quoted a comment I read on Facebook, where I got the photo. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u124	And if there is no further factual point, the Member, Mr Petr Třešňák, is duly entered into the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u125	Good evening, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I'm definitely not gonna talk for 40 minutes, as a hint has been made before. I'm going to follow up on my colleague Dana Balcarová with three specific topics. And I hope I don't drag Mr. Kolega Hájek back here to the counter again, and I'm not gonna put pressure on him. We have already gotten used to the fact that the government claims something else here to the citizens of the Czech Republic, but its ministers also vote differently, whether in the Council of the European Union or even Members of the European Parliament. So either the left hand in this government doesn't know what the right hand is doing, or it's intent. I really don't know. I would like to concentrate on fulfilling specific points in the Government's programming declaration. I will quote right to the start: "We will prepare and financially support projects to improve air quality in all regions, priorityly in areas with poor air quality, the Moravian-Silesian and Ústecký Region. In the field of transport, we will financially support the net mobility programme, i.e. support for the acquisition of low-emission vehicles, including related infrastructure." There was a rather schizophrenic situation, because the entire government is taking pictures in Mladá Boleslav with the concept of Czech electric vehicle. The Prime Minister even took a picture yesterday in Dresden with electric VWs, so I can show it from his Facebook page. [[He's pointing at the paper.]] Even a quite positive tweet is written about it. But it would not be weird if, as usual, the Prime Minister did not turn around and claim otherwise and did not dig further into the development of electromobility and called it a blind path with claims of nonsense dictated from the EU. Specifically, I'm going to quote, "We're going to protect ourselves from meaningless plans to make electric cars." Dear government, electromobility is a moving thing, and if you want to run us as a business, please note that a major decision has already been made in this area and in this sector, and that the whole automotive industry is slowly beginning to focus on such a transformation. That's the industry where our economy is built. And that's why I'm talking about this kind of thing for somebody today, maybe a marginal theme. Minister Brabec voted in the autumn of last year to reduce the emission limits of passenger cars in the European Union, but the Prime Minister then responded on 20 May in Hospodářské noviny: "Enough, ministers, you will not do what you want!" So far, I still don't know the position or the official attitude of the government to reduce the emissions of passenger vehicles. We do not even know what the government's official position on net mobility is, for which the Prime Minister has expressed this negative opinion. It will not give me a reminder of the national energy and climate plan here, because it counts on stagnation, or even a slight increase in the production of biofuels of the first generation until 2030. [[He's showing the chart.]] This is directly from the concept, from the national plan, by 2030, biofuels of the first generation will still be mixed up. In fact, I understand that such predictions may not come true, but let us see how last week's vote on the mandatory incorporation of biofuels turned out. So this obvious nonsense has government support, while really net mobility doesn't. The next topic is the railway, and I will quote again from the programme statement: "By the end of the parliamentary term we will firmly anchor the routes of planned high-speed railway lines in the regional planning documentation of the regions and proceed in their project preparation." There are also listed individual corridors and the text continues: "We will obtain a territorial decision, we will progress significantly in the property preparation and for some parts we will also provide a building permit. We will support the transfer of freight transport to the railroad, speed up the preparation of high-speed lines." I'll just add a quote from the Prime Minister's book about what I dream when I happen to sleep. "We had a railway network in the 19th century, and we didn't do much about it. Such road and rail connections to all of Europe is a unique chance for our companies and their exports." Furthermore, the Prime Minister in this book, which he wrote alone or with the help of a total of 200 co-authors, mentions that it takes 25 years for us to prepare such a line, while in Great Britain or Germany only seven years. It was supplemented by such a nice picture with how the trip from Prague to Brno will take 40 minutes. So what did this government do to speed up the construction of high-speed lines? So far we can only read that the deadline for completing the railway line Dresden - Prague is 2035, which may sound optimistic, but 2050 on the connection between Prague and Brno, it makes me feel a little bit that the term 2050 is not there by accident, because it is far away and we are probably not interested at all. Respectfully, the government. I will start again with a quote from the programme statement: "We will consistently defend the state's ownership, economic and environmental interests in the use of mineral deposits of the Czech Republic, especially strategic raw materials. We will check the possibility of lithium mining and processing through the state-owned company Diamo. The aim is to keep the maximum effect of extraction of all mineral resources in the hands of the State." Why do I mention that? In 2017, lithium became a major theme of the electoral struggle between the ANO movement and social democracy. However, this has been quiet today, and we can only read that Diamo will begin to explore old bearings. While other countries benefit from the business, they continue to profit, the Czech Republic is sleeping again and standing on the spot. Although it may be nice that the government cut private investors off in 2017, the question remains whether the state is able to provide such mining effectively in its own direction. And yet here we have a fairly effective tool against the cheap extortion of those bearings, and that is a government regulation that sets out the mining fee and which has not been updated so far. [[21.20 hours]] And it's not just lithium, it's also the coal lobby. Here I really admit, there was actually such a small problem, or perhaps a little bit more, why the government could not even take that step. Although this has now been dealt with in the amendment to the Mining Act, there is not much public talk about the still valid moratorium that has been concluded with the miners and which thus still preserves the Republic with coal at least until 2021. Yes, I admit, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has recently said that, in the context of the development of market prices for certain minerals, a moratorium is disproportionate for the state as owner of mineral wealth. So at least this statement may partly fill us with light optimism, but in connection with the previous points I still regret to say that in this way we will definitely not be strong Czech Republic, but a bit of a fossil museum. And that is why we will vote in favour of this government's distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we go any further, I'm gonna hand over the meeting management, I just wanted to make a deal with you because I've been asked. We voted that we could still discuss and vote after 9:00 p.m. So there is a question as to whether this applies to the period after midnight. We have from the past an established interpretation which was not contradicted, it was not contested that the meeting day starts at 9.00 and can end only at 8.59 the following day. This means that the day of the hearing is not the same as the calendar day. Laws introduced practice to be sure to vote after midnight, but it was not necessary for a vote on trust and similar subjects. Do we all understand that we have already voted and can act? If no one objects to this procedure, we have an agreement. Otherwise, we would have voted that we could still vote after 24 o'clock. For the ODS club, Mrs. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u127	Yes, President Stanjura, who said it here at the outset, meant precisely that we should actually finish this point, whether today or tomorrow, but finish this point. And the way I understood it, it's also based on the agreement of other political clubs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u128	So we have confirmation that the meeting day ends at 8.59, and we can proceed. Mr Radek Holomčík will be next in the debate. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, here's a point of fact, Mr. Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that Mr Třešňák mentioned the issue of the museums, because he is not just a fossil museum, he will also be a transport museum, because we are working to build a water channel. This is a traffic that ceased to be relevant at the end of the 19th century. High-speed railroads, they're gonna be God knows when and everyone's praying that we at least have those highways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u130	Thank you and, unfortunately, one more factual one, Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Me to my fellow pirate party. If you turn off the power, and no matter how it's made, I'm curious about how we're going to treat or how you're going to extract bitcoins.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u132	Thank you. It's all factual. In the third time, Mr Holomčík, then Mr Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u133	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed such an interesting rhetorical turn today, when the Prime Minister has stopped saying "let's study it" and started saying "I don't understand it." It seems fair to me to try to explain my view of why this government does not deserve my trust or the pirate MP's club. I think we should be able to see farther than the nearest election. The government should have a vision, it should be able to look for consensus on what will happen in five years, in ten or in thirty years. At that time, for example, I'm going to be 65, my little girl will be 32, and I'm just wondering what state we're going to live in, what kind of water we're going to drink, what air we're going to breathe, what kind of food we're going to eat, and whether we're going to sleep at night without air conditioning. And I think that's the worst thing this government is doing. She's just taking away our future. Let me be specific, let me make five of these short circuits. A few months ago, at a pompous press conference, a draft programme for the fight against drought was presented. It's going to invest 50 billion. Within 10 years. That's a great idea. Really, really, I'm happy for this activity. Unfortunately, the reality is a little sadder. If we do the math, 50 billion. In ten years, it's 5 billion. per year. According to available information, fare discounts will cost us about 5.5 billion. crowns a year. And I think it points beautifully to the priorities of this government. The second thing I'm sorry about is that, according to the information available, two thirds of the budgets out of the 50 billion. They should both go into reconstruction when I say it in a simple way, the taps and their connections. I'm sure that's the right thing for me not to criticize. The state of our water infrastructure is a sad legacy of past governments and past periods and it is certainly right to focus on their renewal and even the connection can make sense if there is a local water supply failure. What I'm sorry about is that the government doesn't really deal with the relatively large tide of profits from the sale of drinking water to those partially privatized waterworks and water infrastructure. And what I'm most sorry about, however right it is, please don't give it up for something that solves the drought problem. Because the causes are somewhere else. This won't even solve the dams. The basic problem with the drought next to the rising temperature is in the state of our landscape, in the fact that it is unable to absorb water, in the fact that our soil is dying, and in the fact that by our action we killed so called. a small water cycle. If we want to fix this, we need to do something different. For one thing, the problem needs to be solved comprehensively on the axis of the state - the region - the municipalities - landowners and those who manage it. Farmers and foresters are the most overwhelming landscape factors in our country. Let us finally talk about setting up agricultural policy to motivate them and support them in those steps that will restore our landscape. That is the key, and that is what I do not see in this government. Next thing I know, it's soil protection. According to available information, about 50 per cent of the soil is affected by water erosion, up to 80 per cent of the soil is threatened by erosion. A number of measures have been mentioned for several years, e.g. about the anti-erotic decree. The anti-erotic decree, it's kind of Mrs. Columbová. Everyone's talking about her, and nobody's ever seen her. And it's a consequence that the ministries, in this case, the Department of Agriculture and the Environment, aren't able to agree on how we're going to protect the land. Instead, it's coming out of the hole again like some rat's idea of introducing a pre-emptive right, this time dressed up for protecting the soil from developers. We just can't solve these problems without soil protection. Another problem or other circle is access to the countryside. The country is long-term - and it is not for me to be fair, it is only this government's problem, it was not just the government's problem in the past period. In a better case, the countryside is a long-term sleeping cinderella that no one wakes up. In the worst case scenario, he's such an imaginary whip slave. The government introduces new and new nonsense that complicates this country's life, which destroys the federal life, which closes pubs that are important for the operation of small towns and rural areas, trades are closing. There is no dramatic solution to the transport infrastructure, which actually leads to a deterioration in the availability of a number of services and a number of things. [[21.30 hours]] Instead, we see that agricultural and forestry policy - and this is not only a problem for this government, let me not be unfair - is simply changing and oriented towards industry, which both nature and livestock and unfortunately only sees people as a means of production. Just earn, earn, and walk away. Okay, but the people who live in the country, for example, are going where? Because this is especially about people in the country. Where will they go? Another issue that has been dealt with a great deal before the elections to the European Parliament is the dual quality of food. Please, nicely, if we want to address the quality of food for our citizens, not only the double quality of the imported food, but generally the quality of the food, so let's think about how it is easier for the business chain to bring food from the other end of Europe or the world than for a small local producer to sell it somewhere near his establishment, near where he runs. That's the problem, too. We need to shorten the distribution chain, we need to start looking at this issue with the optics of the fork-to-fork principle. Instead, we burden small producers with increasing bureaucracy, nonsense and restrictions. And when the biggest acquisition happens, the biggest purchase of bakeries in the Czech Republic, we will learn that an inter-ministerial commentary has been issued by a decree that says that the bread in the past may not actually have anything to do with the bread, but it can be called "leaven bread." And the last topic we're talking about right now is the state of our forests. I remember again the pompous press conference sometime from mid-May last year, when Prime Minister Babiš, Minister Brabec and then Minister of Agriculture Milek beat each other in the breasts, as it is all wrong, as they will fight the bark. I remember how intensely they spit on Mr. Szórád or former Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Jurečka, the then CEO of the Forests of the Czech Republic. And now I don't want to comment on whether it's justified or not. But then when we look at the year and month that happened in real life, two amendments to the forest law came in, and I'm glad for that, but unfortunately, in more detail, it's not that famous. The first, the MP tells us that we have some forest law, it needs to be followed, but if we can't handle it, we don't really have to follow it. The other one, the government, was ambitious. She said she'd figure it out, but there's not much in the real world either. For the time being, we have tabled several amendments to the Agricultural Committee, which should simplify the recovery of forests. They should help the foresters make it easier for them. In fact, these proposals would in some way liberalize to some extent other ways of farming in the forest than those of the pastoral ones. Here again, I must thank both the Ministry and the government coalition for supporting two of these proposals. One concerned the ban on the alienation of state forests, the other was a small matter that solves the reconstruction of the forest. But it's not enough. And what shocked me the most back then was the argument of the Ministry. Even in those proposals, there was a justification that this was such an intervention that there was a need for professional discussion. Yeah, but those are all the things that the professional public has been calling for for for ten years, 20 years. Some of these things are in the Ministry's strategic documents that were published 11 years ago. I'm asking how long this expert discussion is supposed to take for us to finally start dealing with something. I would also like to recall the connection with the not entirely positive, not quite good financial situation of the state company Lesa ČR, on the steps of the current Prime Minister Mr Babiš at the time when he was Minister of Agriculture (?) when tens of billions of crowns were pulled out of the state forests for its instigation, including, for example, the reserve for growing work, which is now desperately lacking in the enterprise. One of the amendments that we talked about also basically addressed, according to the conclusions of the expert forestry public, a pretty possible biggest barrier to the restoration of forests, and that is the state of the over-slept cloven-hoofed game, which just now, according to the information that they are, is probably the biggest obstacle in the meaningful restoration of forests, and according to estimates that vary, only in the woods will damage somewhere between five and seven billion crowns a year, not to mention agriculture. We proposed a change and the Ministry commented on it in the words: well, in that request for the amendment of the forestry law that we submitted, Parliament did not require us to deal with hunters to address the amendment of the hunting law. I would have expected court-martialers to sit at the Ministry who just know what the situation is in the woods. When I know that I'm not a forester who's in opposition. When I took the time to find out, I'd expect it to be at least the same in the Ministry. Another thing that is a problem with wood and wood is that we simply have not yet learned to perceive wood as the most ecological raw material. We export too much wood as a raw material and leave other countries to have the added value that they can generate on it to generate on themselves. Both wood-processing companies and foresters and now the agricultural committee are calling for the Ministry of Industry and Trade to deal with this segment of industry. So far, so unsuccessful. And yet wood, in addition to the standard methods, gives us the opportunity to use them for timber construction, and new technologies show that wood has enormous potential in the area of plastic replacement. Most importantly, this is once again a long-term sin that would be unfair only to blame this government. We just don't have a vision of what we want from those woods. What we really want in the woods. What we want from the state forests and what role they have to play in society. We don't know. Those were some of my reservations. I'll go back to the general plane. I am terribly sorry about the way the marketing of the ANO movement affects the policy of this government and therefore life in the Czech Republic. When you look, the demand in society for solutions to environmental issues is growing and growing. And I think it's clear to ANO marketing experts that at the moment when the Prime Minister would stylize himself as a conservationist or a person who wants to deal with nature, no one will believe him. That's how he styles himself into a protector of the industry. And the policy of the Czech Republic, as a matter of fact, this government's policy corresponds to that. But this is the wrong way, please. We don't... Each lesson about sustainability speaks of three pillars. Economic, environmental and social. And we do, if we want to live in this country, we need to build this on a balanced alignment of these three pillars, these three aspects. And that's not happening. In conclusion, I'll be positive. If this meeting today, or even my speech, would lead to some self-esteem of the government, if I, as well as other colleagues and colleagues from the pirate party, wanted to deal with the issues, I would, of course, offer cooperation to resolve these issues. I offer support for meaningful proposals. And if not, at least stop throwing sticks at those who are trying to do something. So far, everything seems or suggests that we will not see much positive from this government, especially in relation to the environment and our landscape and our countryside. And that, from my point of view, is one of the reasons why we cannot express our trust in this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u134	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. That was a colleague of Holomčík. We are now continuing the debate with Mr Ondřej Profant's speech. My colleague Richterová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u135	Beautiful evening, honourable members of the government, Members and, above all, citizens. I would first like to introduce a vision, a vision of a modern state, and then to tell you who doesn't and doesn't. Personally, I'd like to live in a modern, digitally connected society. In a society where citizens' services are easily and without obstacles available online, where every citizen can easily find out the information he needs, whether it's the things he needs to deal with a life event or things he just wants to know. What exactly does this mean? These beautiful, concentrated sentences that I just said, I'm going to say on points. For example, I would like to be informed of the end of the validity of each document and not just selected, not to have to put it into the law that we will be informed about the driving licence. I want it for all the papers - for the ID card, for the fishing ticket, for anything else. This must be a matter of course, not by stomping it out here in the House to fix one case. Also, as I said, I need to know what I need to know, to be informed, which documents I need when I need, what current laws are, which our state still does not allow, on the contrary, they are downloaded from the Public Administration Portal with a reference to the e esbírka, which is only always moving and moving and the valid texts are still not officially there. I would also like to know the technical standards in force in this state. A topic that we have discussed many times before. When I'm obliged to follow something, I have to know what I'm obliged to do. Unfortunately, this approach is not common here at all. I want to be able to order services online. And that's a lot of service. I want to order a child so that I can book a place for a child in kindergarten, applications for new documents, building permits, building proceedings - this is an extremely demanding process in which there is a lot of correspondence, a lot of inquiries, a lot of things you have to prove to the authorities. And very often, these are the things that the authorities have. Even very often, the authorities are the source of the information. I would like to be able to start my company online and last but not least pay taxes online. These are all just examples of services, but there are many more. When we're paying for it, it's also important that you really pay for it, not just to figure out that it seems like a data box alert to me, but I would like to simply, modernly, be able to pay, that is, by credit card or other options that are quite common in every e-shop today, only in our country is not common. I would like this state to experience data-driven policy - data-driven policy or facts, so that decisions are based on real data. That's not what's happening here. All these things are a matter of course for my generation, but not for this state. But I'd like more than of course. For example, I would also like detailed information on the environment, on water quality, soil, air quality, weather forecast, detailed information on transport, detailed information on the state's financial condition, such as budget data, budget implementation data, visually, clearly in one place. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like this state to be able to behave responsibly and safely in a digital environment, so that there is an awareness and education of officials, so that the state is a positive example, not a deterrent, so that the hardware we use is credible and auditible, so that it is open and verifiable, and that this state deals transparently and reasonably with my personal data. He, on the one hand, is unable to pass on when needed, and on the other hand, treats them very bluntly when not needed. There is also a need to support state projects with a living ecosystem, just like we have with e-mail clients, where e-mail is protocol, and I can choose the email client I want, so I want the state to support this for the things that it requires us to do. This means, as is the case with data boxes, that there are libraries that can be used and can be used by application developers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u136	I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, let my colleague Profant make his contribution to the subject of today's meeting, i.e. a motion for distrust of the Government of the Czech Republic. [[A voice from the diaper: It can't be done!]] Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u137	Dear Members YES, I am getting to the way it is. What do we got? Most things that, for example, move forward in the area of digitalization are things that are from the European Union. I've said that many times. We still have overpriced IT projects that aren't even in line with today's needs. I think that beautiful examples for everything are the Treasury or the NEN system. We still have an ongoing lockdown to one contractor, vendor lock-in. The ice was already moving on the MPSV, but the former secretary The Němcová woman made sure that it would look the same for a long time, that it would still not be able to work with information, provide new services to citizens and so on, because it is almost unable to provide existing services. And the fact that we are here recently - or you have recently voted to extend the EET to the ADIS system, which is from the 1990s, and now it has just been announced that further negotiations continue without publication, that there will be no competition for this system, because you simply are not able to define such a basic thing, it is really... [[A note from the benches of the members of the YES.]] I'd be happy to have you present it to me later, Mr. Ambassador, how you can define it when you continue the proceedings without publication. We have other systems. Already mentioned NEN, where for example... well, its user-friendlyness is quite legendary, but it's even worse, it also loses data. That's what I thought was almost impossible in the 21st century. Disk capacities are really cheap and do not back up, it really can only be a complete amateur. We don't have a unified identity. National Identity Authority - NIA - is not unified with a data box system. Our personal data is not protected. As the Senate's return on the adaptation laws on GDPR took place here, the approval of the general exemption for public administration was granted because the public administration is simply unable to protect our personal data. There is no other way of saying that, because if the public administration were able to protect our personal data, it wouldn't need any exception. And as I said, I think that public administration should be an example of good practice, not a deterrent. Military Intelligence is presenting us with an amendment to the law where they want to spy on the entire Internet. I was also talking about the data-driver policy. So the ministers themselves repeatedly answer my questions, that they themselves cannot get information, that their subordinate institutions will not tell them and so on. For example, we do not know a lot of important statistics in the field of social affairs. That's not how I think it's really gonna be possible to drive. [[21.50 hours]] And last but not least, there are finances. Then I will quote Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Jan Hamáček. He lacks CZK 1.7 billion for digitization. Already. I have the same information about the lack of funding from the SACUIB. I don't think that's really a viable solution. In conclusion, I left an example that I learned today about how the state's digitalization works beautifully. We have a joyous occasion. We're having a baby. Of course, such a child needs to be enrolled in a health insurance company. There is even a shared information system. That's where everything goes down. We even have a pre-filled card coming from the insurance company, but we still have an obligation within eight days under a fine of CZK 10,000 to physically report the child to the insurance company, who is able to give us the card herself, because he knows it through the information system, but in our bureaucratic circle there is an obligation to report. So even though all the institutions involved are working without it, we have a duty there to enforce ourselves. That's completely absurd. It's a simple matter. It can be changed. It's just something that if the Minister of Health wants, he'll change in a few months. But I don't think there's really an effort here. Of course, I could keep talking. I guess it's kind of late. [[There's laughter, humorous persuasion, so let's keep going.]] But I wanted to commend something else. I wanted to commend the concept of the Digital Czech Republic, I wanted to commend the Portal of Citizens, and I wanted to commend the law on the right to digital service. These are quality projects, well done, where this state can be moved somewhere. But, as I said, in general, this is not going very well, and that is why the pirát cannot support this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u138	That was Mr Profant. He raised two factual points. First Mrs Kořanová, Mr Holík will be ready. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A colleague of mine, Profant, has just saved it a little by the end. I wanted to ask all citizens of the Czech Republic who have looked and endured until these hours when they read the social networks of my colleague Profant through you or the pirát, and will read how they participate and submit legislation to a digital technical map or to the building process for digitization, so it is not true and your speech clearly suggests it. So you haven't submitted anything and you haven't done anything until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u140	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now my colleague Holík, then my colleague Profant, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u141	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues and the last four brave visitors, I wanted to say one thing. [[Looking at the balcony, noise in the hall]] Based on several clubs, we are gathered here to express our support for the government. Instead, we're doing rhetorical exercises here, and I'm just gonna say it, beating up empty straw. Here's your straw, let's beat it up and let's vote!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u142	Thank you for keeping time with my colleague Holík. Mr Profant is now also referring to the factual point and another factual point by Mr Bartoš. Mr Profant withdraws, so now Mr Bartoš with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u143	Hello. I would just like to respond briefly to Mrs Kořánová, who spoke here through the President. [[Correct, Koran's.]] There are a number of things that the pirát present on their own initiative. Of course, we are looking for support and cooperation among experts on different sides. I have to say, for example. legislation on banking identity, legislation called the Digital Constitution, the right to digital service, was created under the Public Administration Committee as synergies between all political parties. When you look at the proposals, right now, in digital service, there's a petitioner, Mrs. Kořánová, signed by me, signed by the ODS. If I were to talk about any proposals that come purely from our initiative, it is the initiative of Jakub Michálek, who is pressuring the electronic file, it is also necessary to propose an electronic building journal. So please, let's not argue here about who's presenting what, but the fact that the pirát are not presenting anything is simply not true. And I would ask Mrs. Kořánová not to say such things, because we sit at those tables together when we prepare these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u144	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. But I have two more, Mrs Kořanová and Mr Králíček. Madame, I will start measuring your time again, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u145	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. I would like to ask President Bartoš through you, I am Kořanová, briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u146	Thank you. Now, Mr. Rabbit. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u147	I would again like to ask Mr Bartoš, through Mr President, to watch Mr Profant's tape. He said we're not doing anything! He started it. And Mrs. Kořanová, with a brief one, said only two cases where you didn't attend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u148	Thank you. Now one more factual remark from Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u149	I'd just like to say that I'm gonna go over the tape screen again, because we're here to address the government's activities. And I'm always a thorn when I see some government representative, especially the Prime Minister, reading these things as if he were putting them on the table, as if the government were taking those steps. All the things that are being said here are almost exclusively a parliamentary initiative. I am glad when something comes from the government, when something comes from Mr Dzurilla, the government's agent, I am glad to see some proposals coming, which are with the broad support of various parties and, for example, experts in the field of the commercial sphere. So I'd like to try to calm this debate down so we don't get carried away. And I'm sorry about the name messing up, it's already 21.56.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u150	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. That's the end of the point. We can continue with Mrs Richterová, Mrs Vrecionová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u151	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I will start with an unexpected toilet insert, if I may. I heard such a characteristic sentence after the speeches of the ministers, after the government's speeches, I don't know who said to her, "That's what we did to them! - I mean, I don't take it that way. I don't take it that this is some kind of football field. It's about the fact that distrust of the government is really a serious matter. It's not supposed to be a rhetorical fight. It is supposed to be an argumentative explanation in which the leadership of this country is failing, in which our country deserves better governance, and in what we, as the opposition, as callers of this meeting, are sure that there are so many mistakes that it makes sense to sit here and argue today. So please, it's not about who's gonna give what to who, it's about what kind of services the people of this country get. And I know that many of you who are here, and now both from the right and from the left and in the middle, are seeking various minor, partial improvements. Many of you, I think, are working very sincerely in your areas of concern. But what's going on is, these things are really systemic. We are trying, I think, now in such an endless pirate block to show clearly that the government, as one man, must simply pull together and, for example, in situations where a large company is in captivity, must deal with this together. And when that doesn't happen, it's simply up to the opposition to point it out. But wait, I'll smuggle in some compliments, just come back in a minute. [[2.00 hours]] I know that, for example, in the area that I am dealing with, broad social issues, these tasks are quite difficult. But imagine, they don't usually base themselves on being a problem in legislation. They are not so often based on the problem of laws, but rather on methodological management and the very often absence of proceedings, the absence of cooperation between different components of the state. Let me give you a specific example. We're getting more seniors. It's great. We live to be older. This means more and more fragile seniors over 85, over 90 years of age. These people need - it's called an integrated support service system, a special coordinated approach so that their families, their carers, can handle it so that they can manage it, even if they can't. You will find this vision very elaborately on the site of Dignity Ageing. I'm just saying, it's a challenge for the future that's already begun, and it's already been discussed by others, and it's going to be about health care. But we're not preparing for it at all. And that's not about changing the law. Likewise, if you look at the fact that we are failing to break the curse of poverty. On average, who is born into a poor family has a significantly worse education, remains poorer and, unfortunately, in some percentage, who is born into a family dependent on dosage, remains outside the system. This is a major loss to our society. We are losing the potential of these young people. In the northwest region, this breakdown by the euro funds, our speech in the Ústí Region, in the Karlovy Vary Region, is an alarming number of early school departures. In the Ústí Region, if I am not mistaken, 15 percent of children will not complete their education, whether primary or secondary. And that's something that just has a huge impact on the future of our society. There's this number that a person who doesn't finish at least some kind of education, with a huge probability of going to the gray economy, will only work on the brigades, will be heavily dependent on the state. And that, in effect, means the total cost of his life for public budgets. Many of you have heard that amount, it's about 12 million crowns. It was calculated by the Agency for Social Inclusion. I'm reminding you, because that's the cargo for the future we're missing today. I'm not even talking about growing ghetto enlargement anymore. And what I want to say is that it also manifests itself in very specific policies that push for quick solutions, but do not lead to solutions that are real and lead to the fact that they are really the only solution to families with children in trouble, and then they turn to me, the Ombudsman's office, I believe, also to a lot of you, and then to a lot of desperate social workers who don't know how to help them. In the situation of multiple families in difficulty, it is very difficult to find a solution to housing emergencies. Just housing support. It's a huge problem. You, as a government, had it in the program statement that you'd make the law. It could also help intensive methodological support of municipalities, what they can do. I know you argue with the Construction Program, but it is often about coordinating support in the field of services and not being offered as a solution to placing children in the kangaroo. And that's standard practice. Standard practice, when the village simply does not have an apartment available, is: so place them. I don't think our country deserves this, especially because it all has huge implications for both children and for the benefit of society in the future. And now a little bit of a different case, from a common administrative one. I'll just say briefly, there's a lot of stuff going through the data boxes today. But even if you just submit a request for transition from parent to parent data box, so - and that is something for which the new ePortal of ČSSS, which I would like to commend, is the first complimentary insertion - so it happens that then the clerk at the employment office must tap the data from the electronically sent, electronically completed form by a data box. That's what they're tapping. This is exactly an example of something that is simply desperation. Desperate waste of human capacity. Work for the vending machine. I refer to it as an example of where we don't need to change the law. We simply need changes to the purely government performance at this administrative level. So is the financing of social services. It is very interesting that we have been conducting here in recent weeks, I would say, up to a really hot blood-induced debate, because the situation in the field is not good, but when I look into the press, in a professional journal, or more professional, say, Social Services, into an analysis by the head of the relevant department at the Regional Authority, published now, which is based on the Constitutional Court's finding, which is based on an analysis of how it should be done with the financing, how it should be with the obligation to provide funds and who is supposed to ensure the provision of social services, so I quote you - in fact, the joke is that multi-source funding is not being discussed in any legal regulation. Indeed, that part of the Sixth Act, which defines the financing of social services in our country, does not mention that at all. So the co-financing on the part of the regions and municipalities is more of a common matter. And now it may sound technical to you, but this is a fascinating example of how - of course, it's a good thing that the regions and municipalities are working together - but how, even though we have some law that lays down the obligations of the state, we have here the Constitutional Court's finding issued several years ago that confirms this. We have here a stored implementing legislation, which was to be drawn up, should have been effective from 1 January 2017, it has been two and a half years ago, which would have determined the usual costs of individual services with regard to regional specifics of social services, so I think very well formulated. Here comes the commendation towards the KDU club, which then proposed and enforced it. So I mean, we have a lot of things here that would be good for us, we saved them for ourselves, they should pay. And just because we've been neglecting them for years, we're in so much trouble now, every year the missing billions are being dealt with to finance social services. Once again, this is not taken into account in the draft budget. This is a failure of this state. Nothing else. And the government is running it. The government is responsible. Let me just remind you that all these things are the government's long-term strategic concepts. We have a National Strategy for the Development of Social Services and already for the period 2016 to 2025. We have an Action Plan for the Development of Social Services 2017 to 2018. There's talk of this everywhere. I know, those of you who don't deal with this, you're dealing with other areas, you might think why I'm saying this in such detail. I want to show that these are not idle words when we criticize this government, that the important systemic things that make thousands of caring and tens of thousands of clients still in great doubt that they are being maintained in this uncertainty simply because they do not fulfil their assigned tasks, conceptual obligations. I'll make it short. Those places that I could clearly point out and are important for up to hundreds of thousands of people on fire, it is a medical review service where there are incredible delays in the proceedings. And I'm just gonna give you a guinea pig. In fact, the time limits under the Administrative Code do not apply when the medical condition is assessed by the county social security authority. It's gonna stop. It doesn't run for the time being. The rules of procedure will be turned off. That's the kind of thing we do. [[22.10 hours]] But as promised, compliments. I would like to commend this government's efforts to improve access to some options in obstetrics, to offer more alternatives, to promote more breast-feeding. It doesn't seem to be, it's important for the birth rate, but on the other hand, this isn't enough for retirement reform. What speaks of your position on housing, on the availability of housing is not only that you do not fulfill your programme commitment to creating legislation for it, but also to abolish the State Housing Development Fund. And I'm just going to conclude that instead of ambitious targets in the IT system area, it's at the Ministry of Labour that would allow us to finally have the information that has been missing for years, for decision-making by you and experts, so instead, you're moving the project forward to a single place, a single database, a shortcut from JISPSV. Your government has moved this key project up to 2022, and who knows if. I mean, I know you guys need to talk about how to figure out what number to raise your parental contribution, but that's what I'm gonna close it. Even if after many and many months you find a consensus as a blinded coalition on that number, you will not offer the system solution so that such a charade does not repeat itself. In the Pirates, we have prepared a proposal for a regular automatic validation of parental allowance similar to that of pensions. We simply want us not to waste the time, as Members, as governments, of all of us and the citizens who are watching this, of debates about one amount, of the other amount, to be a vending machine, to be able to deal with the systemic essentials in the future. And by the way, in addition to the fact that we always wanted to have data orbiting offices, not people, so we also wanted to have recipes orbiting social networks, let there be instructions on what to cook for dinner, but not on how to extend parental allowance. And now, by the immense uncertainty, and as the solution has already been presented, that it will only be for active users and that there is no increase in the lower limit, so people just share information about how to deal with it. I don't want this. I want system solutions. That's why this government doesn't have my trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u152	That was Mrs Richterová. Now, Mrs Vrecionová and after that, Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u153	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, I wish everyone a nice late evening. Before they start telling you what I have to say, I'd just like to say that we're hearing these notes here that we should actually cut all our speeches short, a colleague even came up with that empty straw. We have been patiently listening here all afternoon to the hour hymns of government ministers who actually let us speak to opposition MPs in the late afternoon, and we would now like to continue here by saying to the government what we believe, and to the governments, are not doing well and how we would like to imagine this work. And I think that's what the Chamber of Deputies is for. Now, about what I wanted to say to you. I guess I'll start with what the Prime Minister said a year ago when he asked for the trust of this government. I will quote one of his words: "The governing program was prepared in cooperation with all parties involved in the government coalition, and I am deeply convinced that it sets goals and solves problems corresponding to the situation in our country, which has a huge potential for growth and which has a chance to go back to where it once was, to the top of Europe. " I would like to ask the Prime Minister, if he were here, if and in what areas did we approach the top of Europe for that step? I can only think of one area, and it's the extraction of spruce wood. The škarohlíd would say it wasn't the government's fault, it was the bark. The truth is, however, that for the last five years, or already six, the government of YES and ČSSD has made a significant contribution to the extent of the cruststorm. Its solution came late and in insufficient intensity. The effort to spend as much money as possible also led to the government draining two and a half billion out of the Forests of the Czech Republic last year, which could have been used to fight the crust. Instead, they helped develop a new generation of toast bread or gave a free train ride to several children. Clearly, the government's priorities are different than they would have needed. In the programme statement itself, I was interested in several points in the chapter of agriculture, which I would like to comment with one year's distance, and possibly hear from the Prime Minister or the Minister's explanation and information about the changes that have taken place in this area. I quote: 'Uniform, not double, food quality for EU citizens in order to eliminate the practices of business entities to create markets and second-class citizens in the new Member States'. The dual quality of food has been a very reprehensible topic in recent months, and the Prime Minister has even tried to turn this into the main topic of the ANO election campaign for elections to the European Parliament. But people were more aware of the third quality of food that companies from Agrofert took to the Czech market. Double quality has been addressed within the framework of the Consumer Protection Directive, which has been discussed in the European Union. It was first addressed in the EU Council, where each state has its own representative. Here the Czech Republic can negotiate the most. And, worldly wonder, in the proposal for a directive approved by the Council, there was no mention of the double quality of food. And my question is, why haven't you opposed this before in the Council? Why did you not assert Czech interest and interest of Czech citizens? Isn't it because the government of the Prime Minister accused of subsidising European money fraud doesn't have enough respect and weight abroad? What did Commissioner Věra Jourová do to stop this unfair commercial practice? Nothing except interviews in the Czech media. And this lady is likely to be redesigned by the government as the Commissioner. Subsequently, the directive was discussed by the European Parliament, thanks to which the dual quality of food was brought into the directive, but in such a way that the government had rather come up with its own version of the amendment to the law so that its fight against this disorder was not completely ridiculous. Most of us probably suspect that it is not possible to ban Czech legislation from selling a product of a different composition in Spain than in the Czech Republic. Control purchases will be carried out in a similar way as EET checks on painters. A clerk gets on a plane, flies to Barcelona, goes to a supermarket, buys bread from Penam and flies back to see if it has the same flour content as the same bread in the Czech curfew? And who gets a ticket? Dealer in Spain or seller in the Czech Republic? The proposed solution to dual food quality is ridiculous, inadequate and ineffective. [[22.20 hours]] On the contrary, one of the points was followed more than consistently by the government. And again, quote, "We're going to oppose the imposition of subsidies for medium-sized and larger enterprises." Here I have to say, the government doesn't dodge, it holds. Medium and large farms support as much as they can. He doesn't want to hear about the ceiling that most farmers are calling for. Small and medium-sized farmers do not have economies of scale, such as large farms, former JZDs, and cannot compete with them in price. Thus, the words on support for regional food producers remain completely unfulfilled. However, the following figures clearly follow from the interpellation to which Minister Toman replied. The total number of 30 143 farms is around 3.5 million hectares of agricultural land, 901 of these 30 thousand farm at 50 percent of the Czech agricultural land. On the contrary, 25,000 out of 30,000 farmers farm less than 15 percent of the agricultural land. This government is putting 29,000 farmers behind it and only a small group of them are interested. And I think you understand which company belongs to this group. The following point in the government's programming statement basically made me laugh. Quote: "We will reduce the administrative burden for all farmers and food professionals. " I think the government is referring to a $50 million fine that it introduces in the amendment to the food law. That's the novel for the dual quality of food. Or higher taxation of marshlands and ties, i.e. untapped land, which began to be put into practice during Mrs Schillerová's time as Deputy Minister of Finance, even though the Minister now pretends to solve the problem. Here I would also like to hear from the Minister of Agriculture what concrete steps he has taken to reduce the administrative burden on all farmers and food professionals. Now I have a few other points that I'm going to try not to comment on so much that I don't hold you back. But let me quote the individual points. "We will create a system tool to help farmers face uninsurable phenomena such as: dry, in the form of a difficult-to-insolvency risk fund.' The result is zero so far. "We will promote the creation of a national strategy for water and water resources, including water retention in the landscape and protection against floods." So far, all we can hear is talk. "We will support the emergence of new and development of existing food innovation centres and platforms." Not that I know of. "We will prepare measures against another trade in quality agricultural land, including support for priority construction in brownfields or the obligation to replace recultivation." Nothing either. To commend the government, too, I would very much like to commend the fact that one of its points in the programming statement has not been implemented firmly. I hope he doesn't even promote it. The point is: "We will enforce the notification obligation to sell agricultural land to those who manage it." I would consider that an entirely inappropriate intervention in property rights. "We will continue to support the expansion of forest land through the forestation of non-agricultural land." At present, even the land extracted cannot be forested, let alone expanded. And in conclusion, I would like to stop at one more point. Again with the quote. "We will ensure a maximum level of protection for the Czech consumer, especially in the area of low quality food imports, through the aim of coordinating supervisory authorities." This point was probably meant that even a kilo of Argentine beef would not penetrate the Czech Republic and Poland. Or was it meant that the Prime Minister's companies would no longer be allowed to import Salmonella infected meat into the Czech Republic? I don't know. It's probably one of those interpretations. Anyway, the point hasn't been met either. Individual departments were also tasked with increasing incomes. Higher income equals higher profit. The Ministry of Agriculture may have made the best contribution to increasing profits. His great opposition to the efforts to limit rape cultivation and to reduce support for first generation biofuels has no doubt helped to increase income and hence profits. Of course, I'm not talking about the state budget. I'm not even talking about citizens' incomes. I'm talking about the sales of rape processors and first-generation biofuels producers. I'm talking about the Prime Minister's companies. Finally, the famous conflict of interest law, which the Prime Minister here also, as Lex Babiš himself calls it, commented in the morning on his first contribution. So maybe I would also take the liberty of taking advantage of the Minister of Justice, who, among other things, said here that, more or less, as opposed to us or the ODS, we do not want to have a successful entrepreneur in the government, that it is not possible, so what is the poor Prime Minister supposed to do when he wants to be in the government and at the same time wants to do business. I think, and I speak for myself at the moment, but I think that even for the ODS, no one would mind a successful businessman in the government at all, but the Prime Minister built his business to trade with the state, to draw huge money from subsidies. It also controls a large part of the media, and that is the problem. That's the unseen problem. And that's why the Lex Babiš came into existence. A conflict of interest law that prohibits government firms from asking the state for money. That's the point. It's not business. The point is that the state is asking for money and at the same time it sets the rules, whether it is in the form of subsidies, investment incentives, or participation in tenders, because all these situations can be influenced by a member of the government and help his companies. But the conflict of interest law does not say that when a member of the government takes over the trust fund and appoints its trustees, he has fulfilled the terms of this law. This is only the construction of Andrej Babiš's lawyers who have been tasked with bypassing this law from their boss and figuring out a way for the Prime Minister's companies to continue to receive subsidies and win public contracts. But lawyers made a mistake because they just read the Civil Code, and if I'm not mistaken, in Section 1449 they say - and it concerns the trust fund - the trust fund set up for private purposes serves the benefit of a person or her memory. I assume that the trust fund run by Andrej Babiš is not for his memory, so it must serve for his benefit. In the European Commission's audit, too, you will find that when someone can call off the trust fund manager, that they can cancel this fund at any time and collect the profits that the company has generated in the meantime without a problem. So this guy is still in control of the company. In other words, the European Commission says: When something looks like a fish, it smells like a fish, it swims like a fish, it's a fish. Everyone knows it, only the Prime Minister - but in my opinion he knows it too, he just keeps pretending that he's not able to understand it. He thought if he was pumping money, everyone would love it. But it's more like Andrej Babiš is pumping himself. Ladies and gentlemen, on these few examples of agricultural policy, I wanted to illustrate the total inability of this government to promote its own agenda and move the Czech Republic not only among the ten most successful countries in Europe, as the Prime Minister promised, let alone among the ten most successful countries in the world, as the Civil Democratic Party wants. I will therefore vote in favour of distrust to give the Czech Republic a new chance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u154	Thank you, Mrs Vrecionová. We have one point of fact and two applications with priority rights. First, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, with a factual remark, and then Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová and Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u155	Good evening, colleagues, honourable Vice-President. I made a commitment today not to perform. But after my precious colleague Verunka Vrecion's performance, I just can't. I'm sorry, Verunka. I'm sorry, Mr President, of course, I'm sorry, Verunka. But when it sounds nonsense, and I say it gently, softly, I have to respond to it. [[22.30 hours]] Firstly, the conflict of interest law needs to be read in fact, my colleague, through Mr President. I'm just going to give you the basic reality. The Lex Babiš Act, which was adopted, an amendment on conflict of interest, was adopted only because of Babiš. We all know that. We, our 47 Members, voted against in the last parliamentary term. Our precious coalition partners, social democracy and KDU-ČSL voted in favour. The law passed. The author of this paragraph, which is 4c and reads: "It is prohibited to grant a subsidy under the legislation governing the budgetary rules or an investment incentive under the law governing investment incentives of a commercial company in which the public official referred to in Section 2 (2) (a) of the Act of Accession. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) or a controlled person owns a holding representing at least 25 per cent of a partner in a trading company.' The author was Mr Chvojka, Minister of Legislation. And I asked him a hundred times: Mr Chvojka - in the past and in this parliamentary term - can you please tell me nicely why you did not specify exactly what the public official should do with the property? And his answer, but also the answer of all those who approved the law was: No, that's the framework, because a specific procedure would be unconstitutional. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u156	She will now speak with the priority right of Vice-President Schillerová. After that, Mr. Agriculture Minister Toman. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vrecionová, you've interpelled twice. We've spoken informally, I'll only talk to those ties from your speech. That I've introduced some methodology and that I'm pretending to be dealing with it. I'm a little sorry. I felt like we had a proper explanation. Apparently not. Well, I'm gonna try to explain it one more time so everyone understands. I didn't do anything. First, the Ministry of Finance only writes legislation. The methodology falls within the scope of the General Financial Directorate. So much for competence. But even the General Financial Directorate hasn't changed its procedure. The question is that the ties or the courtyard are simply taxed differently than the arable land. And as digitalisation by the cadastral authorities progressed, information for the Financial Administration, where there is arable land, where the ties are. It's not just a tie, but I call it that on business because everyone understands it. So the Financial Administration got more accurate information that it would just tax something cheaper and something taxing the price. And trouble began. Because farmers suddenly found out that they were paying higher taxes out of some useless pieces, and that's how it turned out. That was no change in methodology. It was simply getting a larger and more transparent amount of information. When the problem escalated last year, at the level of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture... I'm gonna try if you're gonna listen to me so I don't have to say it for the third, fourth time, but that's okay, I like the tenth. So we met at the level of the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture, Minister Toman will probably confirm, and we started to solve the problem. We couldn't get rid of it, because the courtyard would fall down at the apartment buildings, developers. Well, we don't want them to pay like arable land again, do we? So we had to write it to solve it. And I've informed you - I know you have a lot on your plate. Now there were Euroelections and so on, so I respect that. But I have informed you informally in the context of the second interpellation that this legislation is read to the government within the rate package. So now he's here in the Chamber of Deputies. The rate package, as I was informed at the club today, will be discussed at the July meeting. So it's not like I'm pretending to be dealing with it. I'm really dealing with this. And you're gonna decide that now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u158	We have factual points. First, President Faltýnek and then Mr Feranec. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Because I didn't make it because the other half is actually about that, the European Commission report says that the Commission believes that a member of the government or the Prime Minister has a conflict of interest under the Czech law. Yeah, based on what we accepted here, and we didn't agree to it. And perhaps the one who was a senator, a Member and a MEP could know that only the Czech court interprets Czech laws. Only the Czech court, Verunka, through the President. Not the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u160	Mr Feranc's comment follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, only what my colleague Vrecionová said. I do not know, Madam President, how penetrating your legal education is. Probably a lot when you explain the paragraphs of the new Civil Code. Surely you have also read paragraph 1448, which says that property in a trust fund does not belong to either the founder or the trustee or the imagined. I assume you know, since you're already explaining the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u162	It follows with the preferential right to speak with Minister Toman. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u163	Good evening, Mr President, Members. I didn't want to perform because I don't want to keep things here. However, the Ministry of Agriculture has spoken several times in different contexts, so allow me to comment on this. I actually went into government not as a career politician, but as a man of practice. I also approach my work at the head of the Department of Agriculture. And I like facts. I must say that, since I joined office last June, my colleagues at the Ministry and I have had to deal with a number of problems that both our agriculture and the countryside have had to deal with. Whether it's the drought that's been mentioned here, I'll get back to it, bark-related calamity, water retention, protection of agricultural land. Like the protection of our consumers, among other things in the case of problematic Polish slaughterhouses, or the negotiation of the conditions of the new common agricultural policy. I must say that we continue to carry out the activities we promised in the Government's programming declaration. It's possible to track it down, but you have to look for it honestly. I have to say, as far as the dual quality of food is concerned, we have tabled an amendment to the Food Law, which addresses the so-called double quality of food. It will not be possible to place on the market in the Czech Republic foods that are offered under the same designation in different countries of the European Union and differ in composition. A fine of 50 million crowns has been mentioned here. Madam, the fine of CZK 50 million was there. It concerned all small businesses and we only used it. And I'll tell you a sweet secret who put it there. He was Minister of Agriculture for the ODS, Petr Bendl, this amount. We just took advantage of it. Thank you. In addition, the European Union's general tests, the results of which were announced on Monday, confirmed that dual food quality was a serious problem and that was not appropriate for its initial questioning by the European Commission. And it should be pointed out that from the outset it was also representatives of the Czech Republic who pointed out this problem in Brussels. I must also say that we can ban the food law in the upcoming amendment, as I said. And that ban will start to apply in our country much sooner than within the two-year so-called transposition period of the European Directive. And I think that this will make our consumers not second-class consumers. As for the concern for your Spanish consumer, I do not share the concern for the Spanish consumer. I share the concern for the Czech consumer. And I want to say that Czech inspection bodies are interested in the Czech consumer. They will not go anywhere, compare it and inform each other with inspection bodies in other countries. I don't want to talk about this much, but I have to say it. And if there is any interest, Madame, I am ready for private consultations before you go to Brussels. [[2.40 hours]] I must say, as far as Poland is concerned. Despite the warnings from the European Commission, we have taken extraordinary veterinary measures because, as I said, the protection of our consumers is an absolute priority for us. Finally, the commission itself acknowledged that our actions were justified at the time. We are, of course, continuing to check closely. And I want to say that it was the Czech Republic that forced Poland to make organizational changes in the veterinary administration, because the Czech Republic has perfect veterinary administration and accepts up to 3,000 veterinarians. They accept 3,000 vets because they had previously handed it over to private hands and had no complete control. So please, let's tell the truth here, too. It's not about any business, it's about no company. I'll get to the conflict of interest later. I am aware that I am referred to by some as you as the minister of large businesses. It's not true! I am a minister of all farmers and food professionals, and I am trying to do and negotiate the maximum possible for them at national European level. I have stated publicly that I will be the first minister to proceed in the forthcoming programming period of the common agricultural policy to introduce a payment to the so-called. the first hectares. That means we're gonna put farmers at least at 133 ha in diameter, talking about 150 ha so they don't have a complicated access to money. Please, let's tell the whole truth! That means it will allow us to do so. voluntary cropping. But you know that, too, Madam! I don't know why you didn't say it here. Tell the whole truth! At the same time, as far as the landscape is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture has very consistently started to protect agricultural land and we have taken measures to reduce soil erosion. We have tightened the terms of anti-erosion protection through so-called. a standard of good agricultural environmental status of the soil. That's the DZES 5 and the DZES 7. We have also talked about this, Madame Lady. Why don't you say it? This means that the area will be limited to 30 ha of one crop on erosion-threatening soils. Please say the whole thing! All the ministers before me had that opportunity. I'm the first minister to do it. I've been in the government for one year. At the same time, we have limited the use of glyphosate, whatever everyone thinks about it, which means we have limited the use of glyphosate on crops intended for food purposes. As one of the first countries in Europe. The others are talking about it. I mean, as far as the devastated, poisoned landscape is concerned, just pointing out that over the last six years, the use of pesticides has been reduced by more than 14 percent in the Czech Republic. Year-on-year, I stress year-on-year, consumption decreased by 10 percent. As far as the drought water management solution is concerned, this was also mentioned here with previous speakers. Not only are we continuing to prepare the dam tanks. I mean, the last tank was made under the Communist regime. We're... in the last two years we have managed to promote the construction of two new dams, whether they are Vlachovice, or whether they are Kryry, Senomaty etc., in northern Bohemia, i.e. two areas affected. And it's gonna be water tanks. That means drinking water. I also opened the topic of establishing constitutional water protection right after taking up my duties. I am very grateful to the parties who have joined this. We set up a round table with constitutional lawyers. The Faculty of Law of Charles University is now preparing an opinion for the Ministry of Agriculture on the possibilities of constitutional legal protection of water in the Czech Republic. And I am very pleased that these long-term efforts by the Ministry of Agriculture have aroused interest not only by experts but also by politicians, across the political spectrum. I want to say that I call on the political party leaders, I will write this in writing, to send their experts into this working group, so that this is not the subject of a political struggle, because we really want the land - the land too, but the water. We're talking about constitutional protection. We have submitted an amendment to the Government's Legislative Council to the Water Act, which will take care of enough water in the landscape and control individual measures. I want to say that we have also initiated a change in the construction water law, which will simplify the authorisation procedure for field treatment and small water works. It was the subject of criticism here, but from a number of experts, we have confirmed that these are not concrete works. These are natural obstacles that will be created in the landscape for water retention. Please, if anyone wants to criticize us for water retention, it's an honor. As regards the water supply and sewer development programme. I just want to say that these investments that have been mentioned here, for which we have been criticized, that's the 50 billion, will help supply water for 3.7 miles. inhabitants in the Czech Republic, so that they will not depend on anything else: 3.7 million. population. It's about the bark calamity. We've released double the money for small, medium, etc. at least 1.15 billion. CZK and is a new grant title which is now being discussed in Brussels. I'm very glad the Secretary of Finance heard about this. And we will release money for private forest owners, for municipalities with the exception of the Forests of the Czech Republic up to 2.5 billion. Crowns. At least. So that's in the running, too. I would also like to conclude by saying one more thing, which has been said here and which concerns me personally, about the audits. In recent months, I have been greatly blamed for the alleged conflict of interest in my family's business. These speculations make me feel very damaged, because they have not been based on reality since the beginning, and I am very pleased to say this also in the light of the preliminary conclusions of the European Commission's second audit aimed at drawing investment agricultural subsidies. The ongoing findings in the draft audit report DG Agri do not conclude that there was a conflict of interest or a breach of the Czech law on conflicts of interest or a new financial regulation. We only have to provide additional information. There's no correction. The audit also does not propose any financial correction in relation to Xaverov, which means that the auditors of these subsidies did not find a problem, i.e. a conflict of interest. I want to say that independent officials who are familiar with the issue and whose work I do not want or can not interfere with will comment on this preliminary audit conclusion. For information only, I think it is appropriate to state that more than a hundred audit missions have taken place since we joined the European Union at the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund. And because I'm used to saying numbers, so please, nicely: Since our entry, 341 billion have been paid under the CAP. Crowns. On the basis of the findings from the audit missions, corrections of 0,3 per cent of the total appropriations paid were granted. And so that you could get some insight, it was equivalent to 10 billion for Italy. CZK 11 billion for France. CZK 16,5 billion for Hungary. and that's only in the last three years. For the Czech Republic in 15 years it was 0.3 %. So that's why I trust the officials. Why do I believe they'll give a perfectly accurate picture of whether or not anyone has a conflict of interest? And what I said, we got from them, we got confirmation. So I think even a complete layman will get a clear picture of how functional or problematic the system in the Czech Republic is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u164	Thank you. Mrs Vrecionová and President Michálek will take a real note. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. Have a good evening again. I mean, I'm gonna be really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, First, to Secretary Schillerová. We've been talking about this topic for a really long time. You'll be surprised, I understood the whole thing, but I actually pointed out to you in that one interview that at the time that you were Deputy Secretary of Finance, there was a new methodology on your website that basically tightened the tax collection. other land. And the fact that it seems to me that we've been talking about this for three quarters of a year, that this needs to be fixed - don't be angry, it really seems like a long time. But I admit, we've already had a lot of informal conversations on this subject. Conflict of interest. Here, Mr, I would say, I do not know whether to be as Jewish as Mr Dear Jaroušek, through Mr President, it is probably inappropriate - I would like to say, I am talking about Czech legislation and I understand that it should also be dealt with by our Czech authorities either active in criminal proceedings or, possibly, by the courts. What the legislator had in mind says that the conflict of interest law prohibits government firms from asking for money, whether through subsidies, investment incentives, or participation in tenders. Because all these situations can be influenced by a member of the government. That's the big line. The Lex Babiš law, as they call it, doesn't talk about any trust fund at all. And there's the buried dog. That's the problem. And I guess... okay, let's not worry about what the komise or Brusel says. And then to the Minister of Agriculture. Basically, my question was what made it easier for you. You're saying that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u166	I'm sorry, Madame, time's up. [[The Member shall inform the President that he will apply once more.]] You have a chance, but now we have to quit because two minutes have passed. Now it's time for a point of fact. Isn't it? President Michálek has made a point of fact. The Minister is reporting with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u167	I'll be very brief. What has been done for this? You know as well as I do that the agricultural committee supported the amendment to the Agriculture Act, which means that we are transferring subsidies to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund so that farmers and everyone can apply for those subsidies in simplified form on one form. We've done a lot of other things. So I think that's exactly what's been done, and we're converting it to the electronic system on the ZIF. The law has been discussed here. One more thing. As regards please nicely - I forgot before, I apologize - the distribution of subsidies by number, I want to say that large enterprises received a maximum of 25 percent of the total amount of subsidies. Micro- and small and medium-sized enterprises were given another major measure. So just so you know, 25 percent of the subsidies were given to big businesses, everything else went to small and medium-sized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u168	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Vrecionová's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u169	Thank you. I just have to fill it in. I have also co-signed the Act on Agriculture, which is now mentioned by the Minister, yes, perhaps it could bring about some simplification, but it is just as little. I think you should ask those small farmers you say you represent. I am firmly convinced that you just don't represent them. And as far as I'm concerned, you're always stuck here with President Faltýnek of the volunteering you're trying to negotiate. You just volunteered to do it a long time ago, you can do it now, you don't need any negotiation for that. I know it's already set up this way in this programming period, but you could be doing this by now, and I don't believe that if there's a voluntary setting of subsidies, you're going to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u170	Now it is time for President Michálek, who is logged in electronically, and after him the Minister, with a factual remark, who is reporting from the point of view. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u171	I have given the gentleman's colleague priority, but I would like to respond to the attack by President Faltýnek, who I consider to be incorrect, to my colleague Vrecionová, and to that familiar address which I think is therefore not entirely appropriate for the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. As to what a controlling person is, we have here defined in Section 74 of the Commercial Code, which says that the controlling person is a person who can directly or indirectly exercise decisive influence in a commercial corporation. So it says it can be both direct and indirect. In fact, there's been a divorce of assumptions that govern the so-called "survivor." act in agreement. That's the way it is when you sometimes have your relatives in place, or a person close to you. And in a particular case, it is necessary to assess whether that person is controlling the person. That is what the European Commission is trying to do in its audit. And, of course, it is her job to interpret Czech law, because it applies the legal order. And some guarantees of legality and the fact that the subsidies will not be stolen are, of course, not only described in European legislation, but also described in Czech legislation. So, of course, the European Commission, like any body that applies law, must interpret, interpret and interpret Czech legislation. And there is no precedent or quasi-preceding judicial interpretation in this matter, so there is no choice but for the authority that applies law to take judgment on the basis of interpretation methods. So what was said here by Mr. Faltýnek is not entirely accurate and correct. I think it's logical that if someone puts a lawyer and a wife in a company, they can't avoid the responsibilities and consequences that result, the liability for injury, etc., or that obligation. I don't think it's going to work on the cap, and I don't think it's going to work on this one either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u172	Now, with a point of fact, Minister Toman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u173	I'm terribly sorry, for the last time today. I would like to say, honourable Member, that this voluntary ceiling, virtually. Regressivity, already applied in the so-called. LFA areas, now the ANC areas, that means disadvantaged areas. The bigger the business, the smaller the subsidies. It's already there today. As far as the next thing is concerned, we are in a position to do so, which means it is certainly pushable and I think it will allow small farmers to receive much more money in a simpler way. So much for refills. And your conviction about whether or not I represent. The last time I spoke to the resigning chairman of the ASZ, I don't think he has a major problem with the work we're doing at the Department of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u174	Thank you. We will now continue the debate with those who are enrolled in the debate. Mr Bauer will speak first, Mr Munzar will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u175	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, fellow Members and Members have already named very precisely the reasons why we should today express our distrust to the Government. I will get to them, too, but first I will tell you the reasons why I have considered further rule by Andrej Babiš today. Andrej Babiš is no ordinary boring prime minister. Andrej Babiš is a person who awakens creativity in people. Since he started working for our country, social networks have filled with collages, jokes and irony. The cartoonists love the Prime Minister, and they have been richly replaced by such a popular Prime Minister Jiří Paroubek. Andrej Babiš is a prime minister who undoubtedly helps build civil society. Andrej Babiš inspires and activates citizens, and even can address teenagers. The Prime Minister is a man who can get hundreds of thousands of people in the square. If Andrej Babiš completes his second term, he will prove that eight years of economic growth can be wasted. The fact that he was only a finance minister in the first government doesn't weaken his ambition. The longer Andrej Babiš will be Prime Minister, the longer he will be in the sun and the love of the media, the deeper he will engrave himself into the nation's memory that we must never repeat such an experiment again. And it's an appeal both to citizens and to us to politicians. Therefore, Prime Minister, through Mr President, despite your undisputed merits today, I will not trust you or your government. The main reason, at least for me, is how you maintain and sustain your political power. The biggest group of your constituents today are senior citizens. It's not hard to figure out why. Most pensioners in our country are living badly, and you are using this situation to your advantage. You buy them by raising pensions, but you don't say that raising pensions isn't enough to cover their rising cost of living. You do nothing to ensure that pension growth is mainly sustainable even in the coming years. You're not doing anything to make seniors feel better about the future. You remind the brainworms of Harry Potter, a creature with no greater feelings that feed on other people's fears and misfortunes. Just for those of you who like numbers, I will add that the ratio of average income to average wage is the lowest in the last 20 years and in 2013, when Andrej Babiš sat in the finance minister's chair, it was 42 percent and currently it is only 38 percent. The question of pensions is an example of how the current government works. The current government does not solve any real problems in our country and, of course, this also applies to the past and current parliamentary term. Andrej Babiš has been in charge here for six years, and for six years, Andrej Babiš has been using long-term economic growth only to buy voters. In the case of pensions, the government ignores the conclusions of all previous pension commissions and economists' recommendations that population ageing will cause a collapse of the state budget in 20 years and that pensions may not be enough to survive barely. [[23.00 hours]] The government even ignores its own programming statement, which says: "We want pension reform and we want concrete steps without lengthy and barren discussions. " What do we got? A poor marketing project called the Commission on Fair Pensions and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which stated that we do not need any pension reform. This government, with its mouth, has now condemned the current middle generation to poverty in old age with one sentence. I must say that I am very sorry that my colleague Jana Maláčová has taken the lead of the Prime Minister and is really just pretending to solve the real problems. I suppose I'll surprise you that I will criticize the government for further action in the social field. Don't worry, it won't be long, much more than the government has done. The government's programming statement states: "The financing of social services will be balanced, multi-source, reliable and predictable. " I repeat - balanced, multi-source, reliable and predictable. What can I say? You guys really worked on that. You can't even solve the problems you've caused yourself. And that there won't be any money to finance social services, that's what I've already pointed out for the ODS here at this year's budget approval. The next commitment you have in your programme statement is to increase your parental allowance to CZK 300,000. I'm asking why you haven't approved it in a long time. Why didn't you approve if you have support and opposition? You can't even make a deal between yourselves, and you still have time to confront families with children and pensioners. And by the way, even the last option you've come up with is wrong. Moms who go to work after two years of parenting get nothing at all. Furthermore, I would like to mention how the government deals with affordable housing. While a few years ago it was a question of socially disadvantaged groups, housing, especially in large cities, is now becoming unavailable for most families. Why housing prices keep rising, there is no mystery. For years now we know that flats are few and that more and most importantly faster construction is hindered by complex legislation. Then why hasn't the government changed it a long time ago? Why? Even in this case, she could expect support from the opposition, even from our side. And I don't think I'm going to reveal any secrets when I say that the substantive intention of the construction law that the government recently submitted is a disaster. But that's what we expected, because almost every law the government makes is either poor quality, or it's sewn with a hot needle. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but the government can't speed up the construction of new flats even by the end of the term. Then why should she continue to rule? A messed-up construction bill is bad news for cities, municipalities and families. And two or three billion from the government, for which the municipalities will build hundreds of flats within five years, will not solve anything. This is the way the current government works, instead of a system solution, a small patch for a big hole. The Prime Minister likes to say that the opposition only deals with Babiš, that the government works, that he works well, that he has results. Then why would she back off? But it's not like that. Some of your promises in the programming statement may also like the right-wing opposition, but the problem is that even your government doesn't. After a year and a half of ruling, it's obvious. And a government that doesn't deliver on its programming statement should leave. The exchange of ministers is certainly not enough. As the famous Aunt Kateřina would say, the fish smells from the head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u176	Thank you. Next up, Mr.... Yes, with priority rights, the Vice-President of Government Schillerová will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u177	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, I'm going to take the liberty of whispering into the wounds of my absent colleague, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I have to, because I'm here for the government. I would like to remind you that this government is now having its annual anniversary. And you, Mr. Ambassador, now I've lost your name, I'm sorry, you've basically listed topics for a long period of time. You've listed so many topics here, and I'm asking why we don't have them here anymore. And I asked in my speech. Why don't we have multi-source funding for social services here? The grant policy of social services has been implemented since 2007. I had this graph here at both meetings when I showed that in 2007, when it started, six billion went there, then it went up around seven, then it went down again, and this year it went 15,7. And we must prepare, and this is the gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the government has also imposed its resolution on the Minister, we must prepare an amendment to the Social Services Act and we must ensure that funding is multi-sourced. I repeat, it is not only possible to burden the state budget at all times. And the Minister's task is to prepare an analysis, and the analysis must make it clear how much the state budget pays, 15,7 billion for 2019, how much the regions pay, and how much the participants pay. And all this must be put on the table, and all this is the multi-source funding that Mrs Richterová spoke of. And he's right. We really need him, and we could have had him here by now. So give us a second, this government's been here a year. Pension reform. I have been confronted several times, it has been said here, in the media, that I have been asked by journalists with the alleged statement of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that we do not need pension reform. I haven't been to the statement, I haven't heard it in person, which is why I always say that I don't comment on mediated statements, so I don't even know if the secretary said it. Anyway, even if she did, she doesn't have the authority to say it. Because the government put it in their government statement, this is where the retirement committee works. And we just have to do something about it. The Minister has now translated material into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs must process every five years. It is actually the sustainability of the pension system in relation to the conclusions of the Czech Statistical Office, which concerns the survival, the extension of the life expectancy of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. And there are, of course, very serious facts. The facts that show that this pension system will not be sustainable. And it won't be sustainable after 2030 and beyond. Finally, he draws attention to this in his - and in this part I agree, I completely agree, he also draws attention to this by the National Budget Board. And this also worsens our values within the convergence programme or in the OECD evaluation, or the European Commission, that we have an unsustainable pension system. So something has to be done about it. And please, that statement has never been confirmed by the Minister. She's not here, so I can hardly just confirm or disprove him and I won't, I say, comment on the mediated statements. But the point is, the government put it in a government statement, and it just has to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u178	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Government will respond to a number of factual remarks or to Members of Parliament with factual remarks. First of all, it is Mr Skopeček's turn. Secretary Dostálová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u179	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to correct the secretary. It is not true that this government - or this government may rule for one year, but the Ministry of Finance has had the YES movement in its administration for the sixth year, if I count correctly. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has had the same number of years. And that was already a hell of a way to prepare structural reforms! And that is when you have those ministries, when we had economic growth, so that you had the best opportunity to prepare some social reforms. What happened in the social field? All you were able to do there was cancel at least a step towards pension reform, which - I'm not saying that it was 100% perfect and that I couldn't find any flies on it, but it was a step, political courage, and quite a big job to push it through in the Chamber of Deputies. All you've done in six years is cancel it without even coming up with a single idea of how to deal with pension systems. Technically separating the pension account from the budget is technology, it is not reform, but you have not yet brought it to the Chamber of Deputies to do anything about it. So not for a year, Madam Secretary, you've been doing nothing here for six years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u180	Mrs Dostálová's factual point will then be followed by Mr Bauer's factual remark. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u181	Thank you for the floor. I just really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really. If the Member called it a disaster, I regret to call it a disaster to his performance, because if the party is not aware of the really difficult situation that is in the building law, and it still sounds from the Civil Democratic Party, where I sign their words, how they fight here for the fiction of consent, for the fact that it is not possible for the state to apply fines against the citizen, but in the opposite sense it does not work at all, it means that the state does not have to respect anything against the citizen. The fact that we have to name it, of course, all the problems that I regret - and I say it again, unfortunately - are also at the level of the municipalities, that is simply the obligation of the Minister for Local Development in the Construction Act. And as it is set up today, when the real phenomenon of systemic bias, the impossibility of sharing officials, that is, there is no way that we can help the construction authorities that have a lot of work, so basically these are problems that really lead to the process being recycled. On the contrary, we are going the way of deadlines, we are going the way of appeals principles, finally preventing ping-pong, and we really mean it, so that the building process accelerates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u182	Thank you. I just want to make it clear how we're going to proceed. The order will be as follows: Mr Bauer, Mr Ferjenčík, President Výborný and Vice-President Schillerová, with factual remarks and then with priority rights, Minister Maláčová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u183	Allow me to react briefly. I will be very happy if the substantive intention of the construction law and its practical implementation do not turn out to be a disaster. I must confess that I met his proposal on the Economic Committee. I have my reservations about him, such as those central authorities, but I am talking about this mainly because I have said in particular about pension reform that pensions cannot be dealt with in the Czech Republic without doing something about demography and more children in Czech families. This is closely related to housing, of course, and that is why I have expressed my concern here that housing construction is not just in large cities today, but is blocked in the Czech Republic in general, and if people do not have a place to live, I do not know if they want to have children, but it is simply an unconditional condition for something to happen and start with demographics, and therefore one of the options for dealing with pension reform. It would be rude to speak here without the presence of Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, which is why I am glad she came here. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance has found the courage to comment on a matter that may not be fully understood, but I appreciate it. But I repeat what I have said several times in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I have pointed out many times that I see great contradictions between the way the Commission itself behaves for just pensions, and what you have written in your programming statement - account separation, we want reform, we do not want reform - and for this reason I have called here to ask whether the Commission for just pensions is a government committee, or it is a commission of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the direction of Minister Maláčová, or rather a marketing product of the Czech Social Democratic Party. It's a legitimate question that didn't come up here for the first time, but the concerns and contradictions between the programming statement and the Commission's very functioning exist here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u184	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I merely wanted to respond briefly to Minister Schillerová, that not only was the government six years ago, but apart from the fact that they couldn't manage the social services, to reform their funding in some way, so still, even though they were together with the social democracy for the sixth year in the coalition, they couldn't even agree after six years not to interfere with the lives of those people who work in those services so that they wouldn't be threatened by the existential job security for next year. It just seems totally undignified to me what those two ministers did this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u186	President Excellent with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u187	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. It's very flattering and hypocritical here to talk about that only a year. Indeed, it has been repeatedly said here, it has been six years. And if we look at the outlook that you're talking about, yes, multi-source funding, multi-annual framework - but when I look at the draft budget for next year, it's exactly the way it is this year. So we are going to have the Martyrium that we experienced here this year. And that is something that is totally unacceptable to me, and it is in sharp conflict with what Secretary Schillerová has said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u188	The following is the factual comment made by Minister Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u189	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad my colleague has arrived, so I will only respond to what has been said before the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has arrived. Pension reform. Yes, you're right, Mr. Skopečka, or whoever else here said not to touch anyone. The YES and ČSSD movement have finance departments and MPSV for six years. And before that, there were a number of other governments, and for 30 years, no one has done the reform. And I appreciate that, Mr Skopečka, that you said that what was done here in the Chamber of Deputies under your rule was an experiment to which you would have reservations, I appreciate that. This was indeed a failed attempt by 80,000 people at a time when all the other countries of the European Union were already retreating from this system, so there was nothing left but to abolish it. That means no one's done it for 30 years. True, even the last government failed. I'm saying it self-critically, I'm not gonna fight in my boobs here. And we are trying and trying to do something about it, because after 2020, 2030 and beyond, we will have the sustainability of the pension system, we will simply have a problem with the sustainability of public finances. We know that. But maybe it would be better than guessing if someone was six years old, someone was 30 years old, someone was, and so on - wouldn't it be better if everyone worked on it? Wouldn't it be precisely this subject that if another government, from another political spectrum, had not disrupted what this government had done again? Wouldn't it be better than beating up the empty straw we've been doing all day and night? I think it was. And it would be one topic. So is social services. You're calling meetings here, two social services meetings. We're preparing for this. Of course, we've been working on it. Of course, we knew about the problem, but because it was before the European elections, you don't have topics - don't I have priority? [[I'm sorry, time's up.]] [[President: No, factual point.]] I see. Then I guess the secretary will finish it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u190	Thank you. Mr Skopeček's factual comment follows, with a factual remark from Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u191	I just want to ease your interpretation of my words. I didn't say it was a failed attempt. I said it was an experiment that he managed to get through. It took a lot of political effort because we were in the coalition at the time, so, of course, it was a coalition compromise. And I'm saying that I would just, as a professionally, find some bugs, mistakes, which I'm probably gonna find on any pension reform that's gonna happen in the future, because I'm probably not gonna have 51 percent here so that the pension reform is what I want it to be. But it was after a long time something that managed to push through. And you said it was unsuccessful, that only a fraction of the people logged in. Well, a fraction of the people signed up because the Social Democrats torpedoed it from the start and told those people in advance that when they were in the government, they would cancel it. And yet, despite this declaration by the Social Democrats, unable to do anything around here with social expenses for 30 years, even though they've been talking about this thesis all the time, the x thousand people have signed up for it. [[23.20 hours]] So it wasn't such a bad try. But it was definitely a better option. It was definitely a better option. Even with the mistakes I'm able to admit, I'm not gonna do anything about it. Do not come up with anything and say out loud by the Minister of Social Affairs that we do not really need any pension reform. That we don't really need it and that we can't even make it. We hear from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, for whom this should be the most important task in her department, we hear that we do not need it and that he cannot do it. Well, I think it's a bad Madam Secretary if he doesn't realize the problem of the most pressing, which - I agree with you - will put the greatest pressure on the sustainability of public finances. You said here this morning that we have public finances in perfect condition, that we're top-notch. This cannot be said at a time when we know that we have an unsustainable social system that will catch up with us sooner or later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u192	Sorry, time's up, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr. Juchelka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Maláčová will certainly speak about pension reform. I am just going to go back to the one sentence that surprised me a little bit, which was called by colleague Bauer, and that is, through Mr President, that we are buying seniors by increasing their pensions. I can't really agree with that. You have also voted in favour of raising pensions. And if we have the highest economic growth, when else are we supposed to do it? That's the same rhetoric over and over again. When there is economic growth, we tell the elderly: you will not be left with, dear seniors, because we must save for the worse times. And then when the hard times come, you say to the seniors, "There's no more of you now, because there's worse times, unfortunately, we can't raise pensions." And I want to stand up for all seniors that it just can't go on like this. I just can't agree with this rhetoric, and I want to stand up for all seniors, and I want to tell them that we are simply thinking about them here in the government, and we will think about them again by 900 crowns next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u194	Thank you. Mr Bauer will respond with a factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u195	Only through Mr President to my speaker. Take a look at all the tapes we shared as an MP, as we expressed ourselves in every increase in pensions, that we supported him. We always asked how much it would cost. First of all. And two. What are you going to do with a generation of 30s and 40s? Because the biggest debt - and now to be correct, not just this, but previous governments, because it's the most threatened generation. So we've always supported raising pensions, but unlike you guys who aren't doing anything, nothing at all about the pension reform, we're asking how much it's gonna cost, if you've got the money, and for the next thing you're gonna do with the 30s and the 40s you're not doing anything for today. In this case, there is a very different type of rhetoric, as we perform here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u196	Mr Skopeček, with a factual point, followed by Mr Juchelka, also with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u197	I promise I'll cut back on my standard speech. But I wanted to respond to my colleague Juchelka. If he remembers, the increase in pensions went through the political spectrum, I think all the political clubs here in the Chamber of Deputies voted for him. Mr colleague, you just need to get used to the fact that the state budget is not the property of the YES movement, that it is not yours, that it is not your money that you divide for those retirees, that it is simply a decision of the entire political spectrum and that it is due to both your Members and other Members. We didn't criticize the fact that he was adding to retirement. All we have criticized is that if we just add to the existing pensioners, the problem of the sustainability of the pension system as a whole is all the more imminent, and the less so will be the pensions of today's 30s and 40s. And while you can't see through a single term and the horizon of the nearest elections, which makes the motivation strongest for you, we're trying to look beyond the horizon of several electoral periods, and we want the pension to be not only for current pensioners, but also for future pensioners. That's the whole difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u198	Thank you. Mr. Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u199	Thank you very much. Of course, we agree on the substance of the matter. Everything you're saying here is easy to work on. I just keep hearing the rhetoric that when pensions go up, of course, we're all on the same page because it's our seniors. But then you suddenly change the rhetoric and say, you're buying this electoral base here, this electoral base, and then you're taking the seniors in that mouth, too. So I hear here: you buy senior votes by raising their pensions, which I disagree with. And on the other hand, you say here: of course, we all voted for it. Then you'll have to sort it out in some way. As far as pension reform is concerned, Mrs Maláčová will certainly comment on this. I agree with you, I agree with Mr Bauer on demographic growth, on birth rate, on children, on housing. And I think we're on the right track right now. And I want to repeat the words of Secretary Schillerová - so let's work on this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u200	Thank you. Mr Jurečka's point of fact, then Mrs Schillerová, Vice-President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u201	Thank you. Good evening. Mr President, allow me to react with a factual remark to Mr Aleš Juchelka's colleague through yours. If President Excellent hadn't disturbed him for a moment, I would be happy to see Aleš Juchelka through the President a little bit. [[Mr. Excellent stands at the bench of Mr. Juchelka and discusses with him]] Here is a few years since 1994 - an expression of how much percent of the average pensions were to average wages, here is the conclusion. [[shows the graph]] So that's the result of how the valorization is going on, and so how much does your government possibly give in these pensions? [[on the reduction graph]] I'm not saying there's no effort. But just to look the reality really in the eye and say that in a year for example. The average pension for the average wage of 2013 was 45,8%, 40,8% in 2019. So to say here how record-breaking it has been, how record-breaking it has been in the last two years, so of course we need to clear what was the mandatory statutory valorisation, how much was added above that. And since Secretary Schillerová here said Jesus Christ to me, which, of course, is such a nice Christian at this time of night, I'm just reminding you that you said you needed to relate those values to the real, real results. And here it's built against what these people can actually buy in the consumer basket. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u202	Minister Schillerová, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u203	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I almost forgot. Now I will respond to the last thing Mr. Jurečka said. Please, Mr. Jurečka - I don't have to, I'm a member of the government, I can address you directly, it's according to the Rules of Procedure. [[The President agrees]] Thank you very much. I really try to respect that with great humility and respect for you. So please don't jump into Prime Minister Kalousek's rhetoric. He's not here, so I don't want to call him. But that's exactly his rhetoric - then the average was relative to the average wage... As our average wage increases, the percentage goes down, of course. But the seniors remember that they may have had 43 percent relative to the average wage, but they had an increase of 50 crowns, didn't they? And now they may be 38 and have an increase of 900 crowns. They know very well. So please, let's not do this. That's not correct. Let's say yes, we have an average wage going up, the percentage is going down, that's true, I agree with that. I also say honestly that this is not a pension reform. This is not a pension reform. That's adding and paying old debts. Nothing else, nothing more. And I say another thing. Mr. Mr. Skopečka, we're in agreement. Yes, the sustainability of this system will become a problem after 2030. On this, the National Budget Board agrees, and we all agree on the material of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which the Minister sent to the inter-ministerial review procedure. I agree with you. But instead of this shelling here, let's work on it, because we need to prepare it across the political spectrum. If only our government prepares it without taking into account your comments, we'll get back to where we were. And it'll be another 30 years. And the system just can't tighten it anymore. Let's just work together. This is where we lost our hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u204	Thank you. Mr Jurečka's factual comment will follow, then Mr Skopeček's comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u205	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I hope, Madam Secretary, that we agree that the level of average wage in a given year reflects the economic situation in a given economy, in a given society, in a given people. Therefore, it is fair to apply the average pension rate as a percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u206	Have a nice half-night. Mr Jan Skopeček will now speak with a factual remark next and Mr Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u207	I'll respond to the explanation of the fraction. Yes, I would agree, for the most part, with the Minister, that if the average wage increases faster, even if the pension grows even slower, the ratio decreases. But Madam Secretary, if you're using this argument for pensions, why aren't you using it for debt? Because government debt is also measured as the ratio of sovereign debt to gross domestic product. And you've been here all morning praising how you're reducing government debt. But the ratio is also decreasing mainly because gross domestic product is growing. So if we're using this mathematical logic for pensions, then we have to use it for the public debt, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u208	Furthermore, with a factual remark, a moment, Madam Secretary, with a factual remark by Mr Ferjenčík. And Madam Secretary, you on de facto? [[Yes.]] So you will prepare yourself after Mr Ferjenčík. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Shouts from the YES benches.]] No, it's not gonna be the EET that my colleagues are yelling at me. It will be a response to the debate on pension reform. The pension reform is mentioned in the Government's programming statement as the top priority that logically, as the highest priority, it is given exactly three paragraphs to it. The first paragraph states that it is necessary to separate the pension account from the state budget, with which I agree, unfortunately, the government has not yet done so and has not taken any steps towards the separation. The second paragraph introduces fare discounts, which is what the government did, but I think it has absolutely nothing to do with pension reform. And the third paragraph is the construction of available housing, which, with all due respect and support for affordable housing, is linked very marginally to pension reform. Unfortunately, that is where the government's analytical documentation for the debate ends. And that's probably why we're, let's just say, in opposition we're going over it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u210	Another factual remark by Minister Alena Schillerová. So far, the final point of fact. If there isn't another, Minister Maláčová will be prepared with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u211	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr. Mr. Skopečka, I'll be very short. It's not a demagogy. In order to compare European Union countries and to make a ranking, you cannot work with nominal debt. You have to work with a percentage of GDP. And that's probably where we're in third place. I have the graph right here. So that's it. It's not like I'm playing with numbers here. It's just how we compare. When I talk to a colleague from Belgium, etc., it's said how much debt you have, and I say we're at 30 percent of GDP, but next year we'll be at 29 percent. So it's not playing with numbers. This is honest comparative mathematics within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u212	Now, with a point of fact, Mr Jan Skopeček came to my attention. So far the final de facto. Then, if there isn't another one, Minister Maláčová will prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u213	Madam Secretary, I'm no different with you on this. Of course, it is a fundamental mistake in the first year of the University of Economics if someone were to compare the country's gross domestic product without bringing it to the population. It's a mistake if someone compares debt without bringing it to GDP. That, of course, is true. That's not what we're arguing about. I'm just saying, and I'm arguing with you about how that number is going down. And if we are talking about the declining debt of the Czech state, I say that it does not fall just because you would reduce the absolute amount of debt, on the contrary, according to your Ministry of Finance materials, you are planning to increase it in the following years. The ratio of government debt to gross domestic product will fall because the gross domestic product will grow quite decently. And in that fraction, it logically does the downward trend of this indicator. But it doesn't talk about your government's fiscal efforts. You don't reduce the debt in absolute terms. You're not. You don't pay your debts. Only the debt is erasing an ever greater gross domestic product. Let's face it. And when you argue that fraction about pensions, it would be fair to use the same logic in debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u214	So now I don't see another factual one. I will ask for a speech by Minister of Social Affairs Maláčová with priority rights and then Mr Munzar will be prepared to see if any factual changes come in. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Have a nice almost midnight, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad I can jump right in. I was quoted here with a pension reform. So if you're referring to me, please be honest. I said we don't need the kind of pension reform that the right has done here. Tight, strong. A pension reform he's not interested in. 80,000 people have been mentioned here. But we have 2.5 million seniors involved. And in the future, it's gonna grow, we're gonna talk about 3.5 million seniors. And the fact that several tens of thousands of people were interested in your pension reform would not save our pension system. Not to mention it would undermine an ongoing system that would depend on millions of other seniors. Second thing. I also made it clear that we can't do pension reform. And I think you confirmed that in the debate. For 30 years, no pension reform has been done here, so we can't do it. However, I have made it clear that I have founded the Commission on Fair Pensions, that if pensions, their sustainability and fairness are a real priority for you, then let us talk about it. The only thing that's happened since then is that we are constantly questioning the fact that we can do political consensus together... And, yes, it's hard, we have nine political groups in the House, it's so hard, it's never been harder. But if - because we agree that pension reform goes beyond the mandate of every average of its importance, it is a matter for decades. And I think, and the Minister of Finance has already called you, if that's what you're really after, you're serious, or you want to chase only cheap political points, and the impression of this show so far is, we're chasing cheap political points, we can't do it, you can't do it either. And how long will this go on? How much longer is this gonna go on? Let's work together on the pension change. But social democracy has also made it clear that the ongoing system is the basis. And I think this is clear from the government's programming statement. If anyone wants to question the ongoing system, it will be very difficult because there is no more stable, proven system than one that is converted from generation to generation. And the Minister of Finance has also rightly said that in the developed world, she is retreating from the second pillar. We have another retirement committee on Friday, and I strongly hope that this debate will be fruitful, because I think it is the representatives of the political parties who should be most active. I think we should also debate what we don't want, not what we want, but what we want. And it must be said that with a single positive scenario from the opposition parties came the pirát. No one else has submitted anything concrete. All I do is listen to what we don't want. And I go to the retirement committee every time. But since we're not going to rely on this going on forever, I also made it clear that if we don't move forward in the debates on the pension committee in September, I will, of course, submit our proposal. [[23.40 hours]] And I can say that social democracy is already clear about how pension reform should be, although I do not like that expression, because I think that in Czech terms it is synonymous with privatisation, pension reform is simply synonymous with the actions of previous right-wing governments - look at public opinion research - for privatisation, yet a set of parametric changes that will lead to our pension system being sustainable in the future, so we will present it and discuss it properly with all those who are willing to talk about it. Of course, we will really look for consensus at first within the coalition, but then we will be with everyone who is willing to debate these changes, so we will have an honest discussion. I do it this way on every proposal. I'm trying to consult. And I'm on the other topics. You know, I've been kind of busy tonight, uh, rebutting various press conferences on what I'm going to do, and I'm not going to do in housing benefits. Do you know how this whole situation came about? Last week, an internal document leaked to the media, a partial internal document about how we want to enter housing benefits in a fundamental way. The strange thing is that he didn't escape the internal document B and the internal document C. He escaped only and only the internal document A. Huge hysteria. It is also very strange that when I wanted to consult last week, only some representatives of only some political parties came, even though everyone was invited, but that is a different debate. But I think we can agree that the trade in poverty, the abuse of human misery, is such an extremely fundamental problem in our country that we should look together for solutions. And I see in the media hysteria that there's no interest in that. Next thing. Social services. I made it clear that social services are a priority. It will be, in terms of organizational and financial, at least as awfully demanding thing as pension reform. You know, in 2030, we're going to have a third or a quarter of the population over 65 years of age and 2050, and it seems awfully far away, that's going to be a third. In 2050, every tenth one will be over 85 years of age. What's it gonna mean if we have to take care of a million citizens, 'cause at 85 today, everyone needs that care. I've clearly announced, we've prepared a discussion paper, as the MPSV is doing under my direction, we're doing round tables, we've said what we intend, and let's discuss it and look together for solutions. And I have to say, the involvement or the interest from the opposition, in fact, was minimal. And those round tables are going to be six. And there's no interest in them either, the others. As far as demography is concerned, I must once again declare that family politics is really my domain. We managed to negotiate as a social democracy in the government's programming declaration, and the government approved this, increasing the parental contribution of CZK 300,000 from 1 January next year. A big debate about it, but the fact is that nobody but social democracy, no other political party has ever thought of families with young children! [[Disagree from the right.]] Twelve years is basically a parental contribution in the same amount. We pushed it into the government's programming statement, we put it in the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u216	Please, I'd ask you not to shout at each other. Please log in in in order. So I have to say that I already have eight factual points here, but please talk to each other on the microphone. Please speak to each other on the microphone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and please calm down in the hall! Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u217	The President of the Výborný is shouting at me: and what are tax discounts? Tax discounts are tax discounts. I'm having fun...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u218	Please address yourself only through me, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u219	I don't have to. I'm a member of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u220	Well, okay. You're not an MP, you're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u221	I mentioned a parental contribution, Mr President. However, I can comply with the President through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u222	Well, they address themselves directly. If you were a Member, that would be questionable, but you're not. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u223	But I'm not an MP, okay? So I say parental allowance and you say tax discounts. I can repeat the parental contribution once again, Mr President, you can repeat the tax discounts once again, and that is what we call a wagon, you of a goat. No one else has remembered the situation of families with young children and the increase in parental contributions other than social democracy at all times. But that's not enough. Parental allowance is just the beginning. If you look or talk to your families...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u224	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can express herself. So please, who's talking about something other than this point to discuss it outside the O.R. so we don't have to interrupt here. Once again, I'm gonna ask for peace on the right side of the hall from my point of view. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Money always comes first, but it's not just about money. What families need and public opinion polls, or also when you talk to families, this is clear: support for part-time jobs, available nursery, available kindergartens, available housing, and also available school children's clubs. And these are all the things that we have in the government's programming statement that we're planning. This means that we also think of demographics as a prerequisite for the sustainability of the pension system. I heard today that we're buying VPs. It's easy to say. We had a discussion here about who raised the pensions, and every time seniors or seniors remind me of it, I tell them, our governments have made a record increase in pensions, and despite that record increase, our number of seniors at risk of poverty has increased by a third. So we don't buy voters, we protect them from poverty, and it's so cynical about people who've spent their entire lives building our economy here, built this country, over a million of them living on the poverty line, and since we're taking their lives into account, we don't want them to spend the last years of their lives in poverty, so you're saying we're buying them. It's just cynical, but I think - and I'll be criticized for it - it's easy to say from the benches, but if you're a senior and you have to live with an average pension of CZK 13,300, then believe that you're turning every crown and then you're politically thinking about it. I also often hear that we should not give out benefits and motivate people to work. But who yells the most when I've made the nominal highest nominal wage increase last year? Right! So no benefits, but no minimum wage either. Then what is it? [[Right: Free market.]] Free market? But these are the wages, Mr President. That's the paycheck. And I think, when we had this discussion here about compensation rates, in all developed countries, the compensation ratio is the minimum wage ratio to the average of about 45 percent. And do you know how much we're in? 36 at the moment. It's evolving because we have a quarterly average wage development, so when you say free market, you have to say B. But we also fight in other areas for workers. 1. 7, and I remind you that it's Monday, it's going to be a historic moment, because one of the last symbols...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u226	I'm gonna ask you once again to calm down so the secretary can express herself calmly. At this point, 12 factual points. I know you're impatient, but let the Minister speak calmly. And once again, I ask you to remain calm in the hall. I know it's almost midnight in ten minutes, but Madam Secretary has the right to speak calmly. So whoever is discussing something else, please leave the meeting room, discuss it outside the O.R., and I will ask the Minister to continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u227	Thank you, Mr President. July 1 will be a historic day, because one of the last symbols or achievements of right-wing governments will be repaid for sickness, even in the first three days. It will be cancelled so-called This is another measure that our government has shown, and I don't think I need to mention that it is the credit of social democracy...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u228	So I'm gonna ask you again to calm down in the courtroom. I'm really serious about moving on, 'cause it looks like we're gonna be done at 2:00, 3:00 in the morning, maybe later. So please calm down so that we can really act in peace so that we can really proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u229	Thank you, Mr President. So I am very happy that after a very long time, social democracy has succeeded in restoring the reimbursement of the first three days of sickness, so that working people are not punished for getting sick and have not, because they have just got sick, fear that they will not be able to pay their rent or mortgage at the end of the month. In addition - and I think we remember well how we all voted in favour of this across the political spectrum - we managed to raise another benefit together, in addition to pensions, and in addition to raising the most important dose together, and that is the parental contribution. The next dose that we have increased together, and I was very happy about the high support across the political spectrum in this House, is the care allowance. He was a social democratic senator, unfortunately the late Mr. Senator Plaček who fought for it today. And I am delighted that from April this year, in the fourth degree and from 1 July in the third stage, the care allowance will be paid to the carers at home and will be increased by one third. That means, I think we can agree again that this is the dose that our citizens deserve. And I think that anyone who has tried a little bit to take care of an infirm person close to him has experienced how extremely difficult it is, that it is care 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, knows what it is for a mental and physical burden, so he will probably agree, and, after all, the vote of all of you has confirmed that this is a very important and very worthy step. Another thing I did at the end of last year was approved, and it was my first law that I brought to the government, so it was a step towards stabilizing the medical review service. In the spring, we followed up with some 20 non-legislative measures and in the autumn we will present the so-called. The third stage, it will again be a set of legislative steps, so that the medical evaluation service works as it should, and to actually deal with the fact that there is a lack of doctors in the Czech Republic and those who work as -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u230	Well, I'd like to ask you not to shout at each other in the O.R.! I'm sorry, but I wouldn't like to appoint an individual MP, please spare me. It really isn't up here anymore to hear what the secretary says. So I'm asking you once again to calm down in the Chamber so we can move forward so we don't interrupt the negotiations unnecessarily. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u231	Thank you, Mr President. So medical review is another big step that we're doing. And I very much hope that we will be able to stabilise together, because I think it will be the credit of this government in particular. I don't think I'm gonna mention an incompetent recently signed by the President. I firmly hope that on 1 January we will all appreciate a fully functional electronic disability which will save jobs for both employers and employees, as well as for doctors and officials of the Czech Social Security Administration. And since I think it's quite an advanced hour, I'm going to end my performance this way and just sum it up. I think that we have joined forces, and it is the credit of this government that has been able to increase, and I am proud of that concept, of a whole series of benefits. It's pensions in the first place. We protect the elderly from poverty. And even though we've made record increases, we're growing the number of seniors at risk of poverty. I strongly hope that we will all appreciate the increase in the care allowance for the most affected in the third and fourth levels. Voters appreciate it very much. I very much hope that we will be able to reach the end of the increase in parental allowance. I'm looking forward to the cancellation on July 1st, it's next Monday, don't forget. It's an historic event. And I look forward to debates on pension reform, which we will not do, as the right-wing governments did, we will not do pension reform for strength, tightness and one that no one will be interested in. And I am also looking forward to a wide range of discussions on the pro-family measures that I will propose, or also on the adjustment of housing benefits, so that we can end trade in poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u232	There. That was Secretary Maláčová. Your performance brought down 13 factual points. I have 13 applications here. So I'll take the order. I will just read it so that individual Members can prepare themselves. Ms Jana Černochová will be the first to speak, next to Mr Jurečka, Výborný, Skopeček, Mrs Richterová, Bartoš, Bauer, Mrs Maxová, Juchelka, Kaňkovský, Bartošek, Mrs Pekarová and President of the ODS Club Mr Stanjura. So that's your order. I shall ask for the performance as the first Mrs Jana Černochová. Madam, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor. And Mr. Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u233	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must say that during the speech of the Minister, I had the opportunity to watch the Social Democrats present, and I must say that I felt sorry for them because they were smaller, even smaller, until they were absolutely the smallest. And if they could get under that table, they would. The Minister is the highlight of the arrogance I have experienced in this Chamber of Deputies. Not only is she arrogant, she's stupid, because the things she says here aren't true. [[Room racket]] The Minister's reprimand that we didn't attend a round table, but at the same time doesn't say that the round table was held on Thursday when the Chamber of Deputies sat down is unprecedented arrogance and stupidity! So I am actually asking the Social Democrats here from this point of view to ensure that if we want to debate these matters, this will be done at a time when the House does not sit down so that representatives of the ODS and other representatives of other political parties can participate in this and that the Minister here does not train us for not going anywhere. [[Very strongly.]] We'd have come if the House hadn't sat down! And the only thing that pleases me is that we won't be seeing the secretary here for a long time. And that's actually a nice conclusion before midnight of that day. It's not in vain. I think everyone who's still watching this meeting must have figured it out! Madam Secretary wanted to enjoy her few more seconds of fame here today, and maybe we could give her a round of applause!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u234	Another comment by Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-001-001.u235	Thank you. Have a nice good midnight to all who are watching us. Let me actually respond. The secretary said in her conclusion that there are over a million seniors here who are simply in a difficult life situation. That's right! But, Madam Secretary, last year we presented an amendment that could deal with raising pensions and closing the scissors just for moms, today's grandmothers, who have about CZK 1,800 a month lower pension! We were dealing with increasing widowing and widowing pensions. What did you do as a coalition? You killed it! There were 600,000 widows and widowers, 1,200,000 mothers who contributed to the fact that the ongoing system has some chance of being sustainable. We, as KDU-ČSL in the last government, brought an increase in discounts. Between 2013 and 2017, this resulted in 5.5 billions. Crowns to honest-working parents. The difference between our point of view and yours is that you said, like, 30 times here, the word dose, the dose, the dose. We said: our path is not to choose, redistribute, control and manage the costs of the administration system. But our journey is support for honest-working parents with a discount and bonus system. You support anyone! That's the difference in addressability and efficiency. And now, here in the House, there are eight concrete measures to change some parameters so that pensions are fairer. What did your government do? She gave a negative opinion. Once again, we're dealing with widows, widowers, moms who have devoted a little of their lives here so that there can be some pensions here today at all. They invested in the generation that grew up here. I personally know what I'm talking about, I have five children, I'm doing my best to make the system sustainable. Don't say that until you came to the MPSV nobody's done anything before! Thank you.
