ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u1	174. Government proposal by the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2020 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union /German press 620-E/ - first reading The Government has submitted a proposal for prior approval of the House under Section 109j of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay, so as to allow its timely consultation. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Government's proposal to the Parliament of the Czech Republic for prior approval to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2020 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. In March of this year, Parliament of the Czech Republic gave its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation to minimise the impact of possible hard brexit on the EU budget in 2019. The Regulation was subsequently adopted by the Council on 9 July 2019. Finally, the United Kingdom did not leave the European Union at the end of March. The deadline has been postponed repeatedly, for the last time until 31 January 2020, after the negotiators reached agreement over the modified exit agreement in mid-October. Thus, although uncertainty seems to end and the United Kingdom could leave the European Union in an orderly manner, that is, with an agreement, its text still has to be approved in the British Parliament. Therefore, preparations have been and continue to be made for all scenarios, including leaving without agreement. In September, the European Commission presented to the Member States and their national parliaments an activated proposal for the budgetary area, a proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the Union budget in 2020 in the context of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. This proposal will also allow 2020 to: The United Kingdom, even after a hard brexit, could participate in the financing of the EU budget and, on the contrary, draw on it as it would continue to be a member of the EU. The Government adopted a framework position approved on 26 September 2019 on the proposal for a regulation. From the perspective of the Czech Republic, it is crucial for the United Kingdom to comply to the maximum extent with its financial commitments from the time of its membership in the EU, which is why the government supports the Commission's proposal. The Commission's proposal will allow the United Kingdom to further contribute to the EU budget in 2020, thereby minimizing the impact of any hard brexit on the budgets of other Member States, including the Czech Republic. Once again, the European Commission has chosen Article 352 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the so-called flexibility clause, as the legal basis for this Regulation. This requires both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic to be informed in accordance with the subsidiarity principle control. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Senate, the Government is obliged to seek the consent of both chambers of Parliament before it gives its consent to the Council. Therefore, the Government is now submitting the proposal for that regulation to both Parliament's chambers. Otherwise, it was presented in the Senate last week, which approved this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u3	Before I give the rapporteur the floor, I have one correction for my apology. Member Jiří Běhounek, who was originally excused by 16.30, has already arrived, therefore he cancels his apology from this moment on. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs by decision No 38 of 11 October 2019 and set a deadline for that until 21 October 2019. The Committee has discussed the proposal and adopted a resolution which has been distributed to you as the House Press 620-E/1. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Benešík, to take the floor, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. The situation is similar. In order for the Minister at the Council of the European Union to take a position in order to vote, she needs the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. I think she's made it clear enough what the poodle core is. It is a revenue and expenditure aspect of the European budget. In case the United Kingdom leaves without an agreement, so that commitments, but also the other side of the budget, are fulfilled and that we do not get into some legal vacuum. It is therefore important, or necessary, to have the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to vote in favour of the relevant legislation at the Council of the European Union. The Committee addressed this press at its 36th meeting on 17 October 2019 and adopted the following resolution: "Committee on European Affairs after hearing the information of Deputy Minister of Finance Ondřej Landa, after hearing Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees with the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2020 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union; II. empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution." As I have already announced in advance, the resolution we are going to vote on is factually identical, but it is a little different in some formulas. But we will vote, and so says the Rules of Procedure, on the resolution put forward by the government, this resolution is part of the materials you have received, so that the Minister is equipped with a proper mandate. We will therefore vote on the text of this resolution, as it is presented to you in the relevant press. In fact, it's the exact same thing. The slight difference is merely in the wording to sit on the negotiations that will be held, I suppose, in Brussels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u5	Now I'll read the apology. Member Petr Beitl... I'd rather read the whole thing. Friday 1st. 11. 2019 I returned to the House after long-term disability for health reasons. My apology continues by mistake. I beg you to end your apologies and settle information about my absence at the House meeting on Friday and today. Furthermore, I apologize for today's meeting at 5 p.m. for work reasons. Member Petr Beitl. So I'm opening up a general debate. I have one factual point here, one general but factual one responds to something in general, so I will first give room in the general debate to Mr Jiří Kobza and Mr Václav Klaus will prepare for the factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u6	Thank you, Mr President. It's very difficult for the secretary to perform, because she always shoots me half the data I'm going to collect here. But I would try to say, maybe in a slightly simpler language, what's really going on, because we're being watched by citizens. The point is that brexit is approaching by miles in a relatively inexplicable terrain, and we need to be prepared for an alternative that Brexit can occur without agreement. The legislation that we are discussing today is precisely the cornerstone of other relations, corrects financial ties between the Great Britain and the European Union, and is basically the cornerstone for the further coexistence of the European Union with Britain. The Czech Republic has already supported the previous crisis regulation submitted by the Commission in February 2019 which would mitigate the impact of any Brexit without an agreement on the financing of the budget 2019. And for the same reason, we support the extension of the legislation to the same conditions for 2020. I would like to speak in support of this resolution, because I think it is very necessary, very necessary and absolutely indispensable for the further flawless functioning of relations with Great Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u7	Mr Václav Klaus is now making a point of fact. You're downloading, so I don't have another registered for the general debate. I look around the O.R., I see no one else, I end the debate. Now I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? Mr. Ambassador? No. So we will proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled, or there is only one motion, a motion for a resolution. So I'm asking if we all know what we're going to vote on. I ask... there is no need for the rapporteur to read the motion for a resolution again. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Would you like to comment on the microphone? Please, rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On procedural issues, we will vote on a slightly modified resolution tabled by the Government of the Czech Republic, not adopted by the Committee, but basically it is the same, it is just a slightly different wording, so that this wording fits precisely for the Minister's mandate at the meeting of the Council of the European Union, with the fact that I can, of course, read the full text, but you have it contained in your material, so I ask if I should formally record the resolution. [[The President: I'm sure he will. Please.]] Okay. The resolution we will be voting on is as follows: [[I.]] agrees with the proposal by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2020 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union, hereinafter referred to as the regulation, contained in Parts III and IV of the Ministry of Finance material; II. empowers the Government of the Czech Republic to vote on the draft regulation and its adoption in the Council of the EU; III. Instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies to inform the Government and the President of the Senate without delay of the outcome of the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-002-174.u9	Thank you. We all know what we're going to vote on. I will, therefore, once again undertake for Members to come to the Chamber of Deputies. Let's wait a minute... Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 204. Registered 181 Members, for 147, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. [[Attention from the diaper.]] Excuse me? Yes, I'm sorry. Voting number 204. Registered 181 Members, for 147, versus 1. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Now I'll read the apology. Mr František Elfmark apologizes for the Chamber of Deputies meeting on 5. 11 pm to the end of the meeting for family reasons and 6 to 7. 11th full day for reasons - family reasons. We will now proceed to the next press and this is a point
