ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u1	9. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal shall be made by the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government Alena Schillerová. Before I give her the floor, Mr Jan Volný, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, will be asked to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Before I give my word to the Vice-President of the Government, I will ask the House for peace! There's still a lot of noise. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill which amends certain tax laws in connection with increasing the revenue of public budgets. Its main objective is to increase the protection of citizens against addiction to addictive substances and gambling and to reduce the harmful social effects associated with these addictions, with changes in the taxation of tobacco products, hard alcohol and gambling. The consumption of addictive substances has not only negative effects on the health of the Czech population...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u3	Madam Vice-President of the Government, I will interrupt you and ask the House again for peace! If you're discussing anything other than the 509, please be in the lobby. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The consumption of addictive substances has not only negative effects on the health of the Czech population, but also represents a high economic burden for public budgets and consumers themselves and their families. We know from professional studies that alcohol costs 59 billion worldwide. The koruna per year and smoking even exceed 100 billion. crowns a year. Higher taxes can not only increase the revenues of public budgets, but also motivate consumers to reduce consumption, thereby reducing the related health problems. The package also changes the method of creating technical provisions for insurance undertakings to set a more objective criterion for tax purposes. It regulates the regime for taxation of interest income resulting from the so-called koruna bonds issued before 1 January 2013 and provides for exemption from tax on landscape elements of the type of draw that can help in the fight against drought. In particular, the amendment to the Law on excise duties increases the rate of excise duty on alcohol, tobacco products, raw tobacco and heated tobacco products. This proposal is based on the demands of the Minister of Health and the Chair of the Government Committee for the Prevention of Addictions, who drew attention to increasing the availability of addictive substances as a result of the rise in standard of living. Since 2010, the average wage has increased by 44.2 %, which is clearly positive, but it was this year that the excise duty on alcohol was last increased. Although consumption taxes on cigarettes and tobacco have increased continuously during this period, their growth far did not correspond to rising wages and wages faster, so tobacco products have become more affordable. Of this, the Minister for Health and the National Drug Coordinator have repeatedly appealed to the Ministry of Finance to move towards higher taxation of alcohol and tobacco, in particular, through higher rates of excise duty. The OECD also recommends an increase in excise duty on tobacco and alcohol in the long term. This proposal is based on the request of the Minister for Health and the National Drug Coordinator to meet. The proposal to adjust excise duty rates is also linked to the government's programming declaration, according to which the government will promote measures to reduce the damage and risks associated with addictive substances when dealing with addiction problems. In the case of excise duty on cigarettes, this proposal also fulfils the requirement for a minimum level of excise duty on cigarettes established according to the weighted average price of cigarettes resulting from European law. Due to the increase in standard of living, the Czech Republic will cease to reduce the condition of Directive 2011/64/EU without tax, as the total excise duty on cigarettes was less than 60 per cent of the weighted average retail selling price of cigarettes released for consumption. The amendment therefore fulfils the requirement for a minimum level of excise duty on cigarettes laid down in accordance with the vape of cigarettes. Of course, we have also dealt with risk factors in preparing to increase these excise duties. So allow me to dispel some of the doubts that I have faced in connection with the proposal, to threaten to reduce the effects of the bill by extending the black market. The Czech Republic has long been among countries with a very low share of illegal trade in these commodities, both within the EU and globally. It helps to this effect for cigarettes marked with tobacco stickers, which serve as a very effective means of checking the authenticity of these products and their ability to sell them on the Czech market. A new pan-European system for monitoring the movement of tobacco products also performs a similar function. The alcohol is used for this purpose by the control tapes according to the law on mandatory marking of alcohol. In addition to the system instruments already mentioned, it should be stressed that, in the level of the executive tax administrator, it has increasingly sophisticated equipment and procedures in which it can effectively combat illegal trade. As regards the possible effects arising from legal purchases in nearby countries, we do not believe that cross-border purchases of alcohol and tobacco would reach significant volumes, given the relatively low price difference compared to Poland and Slovakia and the necessarily incurred travel costs. On the contrary, compared to Austria and Germany, where domestic purchases are budgetaryly beneficial for us, the price difference will remain significant. In addition, I would like to point out that the inclusion of beer brewed in the food service up to a reduced rate of 10 per cent in the amendment to the VAT Act is supposed to be inconvenient, I would like to point out that the purpose of this measure is to alleviate the claims imposed on payers in connection with the introduction of the register of sales in hospitality. At the same time, this measure supports work in this area, which forms a substantial part of the price of the service provided, therefore it is not expected that the reduction in the VAT rate would be reflected in the final price of restaurant services for consumers, i.e. the price of the beer sold. Another measure to limit harmful social impacts is the amendment to the Gaming Tax Act. As part of this amendment, it is proposed to increase the rate of gambling tax for some of the partial taxes on gambling. The proposed amendment to the Gambling Tax Act divides the rate of gambling tax into three levels according to the harmfulness of individual gambling in the same way as the Government's proposal for the Gambling Tax Act in 2015. Three zones of taxation from gambling were originally proposed, in particular with regard to their social harm and secondarily with regard to their profitability - thus harmfulness, profitability. However, the amendment adopted by the Chamber of Deputies was abandoned and the taxation of gambling does not correspond to this division. Relatively dangerous live games with taxes as well as raffles. That's not systemic, and I find it extremely inappropriate. Although, of course, I respect Parliament's will, I do believe that the original government proposal was clearly better in this because it reflected better the character of individual gambling. It is possible to ask why to go back to 2015, when we have 2019. In preparation of the 2015 proposal, thorough analyses of the entire complex of new gambling regulation, including taxation, were carried out. Adictologists, experts in gambling, but also the organisation of gambling operators were involved in the process. Although the main objective of taxing gambling is the acquisition of funds for public budgets, after all, it is a tax, so if we did not have that objective, it would not be necessary to introduce it, and this tax has always been seen as a complement to the regulation of the operation of gambling, which corresponds to its construction. In fact, if different gambling is to be taxed differently, this tax must take into account the risks and specifics of individual gambling in order to comply with European law. The 2015 analyses are thus the best material for gambling as a whole that is currently available. Sometimes there is an argument that these analyses are wrong because they predicted a higher tax return. However, these analyses were mainly adictological. Their main goal was, as in the case of the entire gambling regulation, to limit the availability of gambling so that we would stop being a casino in the heart of Europe. [[15.20 hours]] New regulation works better in this direction than we expected. There has indeed been a restriction on the availability of gambling, but we want it to be applied throughout its originally proposed scope and could function even better, including better differentiation of taxation. Of course, there is also a collection of documentation to evaluate the effectiveness of regulation, because the best analysis is only an estimate that needs to be verified subsequently. The Ministry of Finance is currently carrying out a project aimed at evaluating these documents. It can thus be summarised that the division into three tax zones is based on expert analyses and has a purpose. It is also possible to ask why the game is in some tax zone. The original bill was based on the fact that in the highest level of taxation there should be automatic machines - professionally technical game. This is now fulfilled and we will not change anything about it. However, the aim of the proposal is to divide the lower tax zone into a medium and low zone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u5	Madam Vice-President of the Government, I understand. Once again, I ask colleagues to discuss a topic that does not concern the tax package, in principle in the foyer, and to let the Minister of Finance and the Vice-President of the Government speak in such an atmosphere that allows discussion over it. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you. Live game, bingo and lottery are to be taxed in the middle of taxation. Gambling live is a roulette game, Black Jack, dice, possibly even poker, which is a gambling game, confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court, and there is no point in having a debate about the fact that it is a noble profession or a skill game, as it often sounds. There is no dispute about the inclusion of live games in a higher risk zone. In the literature you will even find the opinions that live games are as risky as technical games because they have similar risks of addiction, but due to their lower availability as part of gambling regulation, their hazards have been taken into account by the fact that they cannot be run elsewhere than in casinos, so they need to be placed in the highest level of taxation. Although bingo is not very popular at the moment, the Ministry of Finance is concerned that if less than live games were taxed, this situation could change because there may be substitution between them. In addition, there are expert adictological articles according to which bingo is a moderately harmful gambling game. In the case of lotteries, it should be acknowledged that they will significantly apply the profitability criterion. In addition to relatively harmless betting in quotation marks in the newsroom, when the draw takes place once a week, especially in recent years games have appeared, which especially in the online environment began to be very similar to a technical game. The only risk is that these lotteries have a draw every few minutes, so there's an argument about their harmlessness because the player has to wait a week to know if he's won. You can even find scratch tickets on the Internet. In practice, we have also noted efforts to introduce games that would be formally a lottery, but would look like a live game. If it were already possible to agree that the classic lottery is relatively harmless, then the lottery in today's form is not so innocent. Other gambling, i.e. a bet, a totalizer game, a raffle with a game principal over 100,000 and a small-scale tournament, are to be included in the lower level of taxation. Adictological analyses have shown that these games pose a certain risk, but this risk is significantly lower than those to be placed in a higher level of taxation. This is also related to the amendment to the Income Tax Act, which limits the current exemption from gambling prizes to the administrative limit of a net win of CZK 100,000. The proposal for this amendment came from the final discussion with the Government and is linked to the implementation of the Government's programming declaration in the part of the abolition of tax exemptions, which is discussed in principle permanently. The aim of the adjustment is, in particular, the fulfilment of the principle of horizontal justice, which is the principle of taxation of income at the same rate of tax regardless of source. A derogation from this principle should be provided for, for example, in the form of tax income exemptions only if such income is socially preferred. In general, I think it is agreed that income from gambling is not one of them, and it is not so reasonable that it has some advantage over, for example, income from employment or business. Therefore, it is suggested to remove this illogicality in winnings from gambling. The income tax will fall on net gambling prizes exceeding CZK 100,000. The net win is considered to be the positive difference between winnings without refunds and betting. At the same time, I must point out that we are working with the representatives of entrepreneurs in this area on the possible correction proposed for tax administration, which now dominates the application of withholding tax in order to introduce in some part the form of filing tax returns - on the basis of the business company's request. The amendment to the Income Tax Act - and now allow me - and the Reserve Act - to speak - to determine the income tax base changes the method of creating technical provisions for insurance companies for corporate tax purposes. I stress that this is not a sectoral tax, as it falls in an inaccurate and incorrect way from the mouth of some opposition politicians. This procedure is in line with the objective declared in the Government's programming declaration, where it is stated that tax eligible technical provisions will be newly bound to the rules contained in the European Solvent II Directive, and is proposed to construct the tax deductibility of reserves according to the principles applicable to other reserves, i.e. to derive the tax effectiveness of reserves according to a fixed administrative indicator, i.e. not as suited to insurance undertakings. This method is more objective as it represents an elaborate and objective system controlled by the regulator and based on the risks that all European Union countries respect. Therefore, the provisions thus created correspond better to the value necessary to settle liabilities for all insurance or reinsurance activities carried out. At the same time, this system largely eliminates the possibilities of tax optimization through reserves, especially - and that is the point - of deferring taxation. The existence of this potential tax optimization is, among other things, a frequent argument for the need to introduce a sector tax on insurance companies, which the Ministry of Finance has rejected in the long run because it does not fundamentally identify with sector tax. So it is intended to serve as a countervalue in quotation marks by optimizing possibilities, but it cannot be agreed at all, because we would compensate one extra standardity for another. It is important in this case that it is not a form of additional taxation, it merely standardizes the distribution of the tax burden over time and eliminates the possibility of deferring the tax burden. Those insurance companies put off their taxes in time, and we want them to pay at a certain point, and then they all made up reserves according to the same European standard. There is therefore no sanctioning of insurance undertakings. And the state certainly doesn't want to touch the clients' money as it went completely out of order in the press. The most delicate question is the transitional period within which the current reserves are to be aligned to the new rules. This issue was, of course, addressed with insurance representatives, when, on the basis of comments, the impact was spread over two years, which means that the consequences of increased reserve creation should be offset by the second half of 2022. In calculating the fact that in the Government's programming declaration the intention for this measure has already been declared since the first half of 2018, the overall period within which these entities can and could prepare for the measures is over four years. It's been four and a half years. [[15.30 hours]] Of course, we are also prepared to discuss alternatives on this issue, but we have to take into account that not all insurance companies have benefited from the above deferred tax liability, that is, the full application of the new rules also means a comparison of the tax burden and the elimination of the possibility of applying this tax advantage, which, I repeat, is used only by some insurance companies. It would also like to state that, as with the reserves of other insurance undertakings, they can and will, of course, continue to form accounting reserves according to the current rules for tax purposes only, their amount will be determined by a more objective parameter than it has been so far. Furthermore, the amendment in the tax package concerns the Income Tax Act, which complements it with a transitional provision which removes the non-conceptual taxation of interest income arising from the so-called "inclusive taxation of interest income'. koruna bonds, which means they will be taxed next time. The proposal also contains an amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act, which responds to last year's discussions from the agricultural committee and the interpelation of some Members. It has meaning and actually concerns the taxation of landscape elements, especially so called. draws that are particularly relevant for the diversity of the landscape and its retention capacity. These are, from my point of view, the most important changes contained in the proposal, the effectiveness of which is proposed on 1 January 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u7	Good afternoon. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, my colleague, my dear government, I will not go back to that material intention, which the Minister has given very detailed information here. So I would just like to briefly sum up the history of this bill. The government has submitted a bill to the House 13. 6. 2019. The bill was sent to Members as a press of 509 immediately to 13. 6. 2019. The Organizing Committee recommended the discussion of the bill 27. 6. 2019, designated by the rapporteur . Jan Volný and proposed the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u9	I am now opening up a general debate in which I have three Members with priority rights. So Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be the first to speak with priority rights, and Minister Vojtěch Adam will be prepared, and then I will be signed in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u10	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is quite extensive, and it is probably not the purpose of the first reading to discuss the various chapters and the various draft amendments to the paragraphs, there will be enough time in the committees for that, and I will therefore limit myself to just two statements. This first statement relates to emphasising the motive for increasing excise tax on cigarettes, alcohol and gambling, although of course we still have some detailed discussion about what we understand under the word gambling and on what one can depend on in the case of gambling. Probably not the fact that he fills out a ticket once a week, he's more dependent on the really hard gambling business. And I would love to believe that this motivation is really triggered only by an effort to fight addiction. And here I want to say yes, in this match we are prepared to support the Ministry of Finance and the Government. How do we know that the motive is to fight addiction? On the one hand, we can see that the commodities that really cause addiction, whether it is tobacco, whether it is alcohol, whether it is a hard gamble, will actually increase their price by higher taxation and logically reduce some other taxes where there is no dependence, where the reduction will benefit whether human creativity or the creation of gross domestic product or other godly purposes. If the government and the Treasury really mean that it is motivated by the fight against addiction, then they will hear our appeal and our proposals and some other taxes in roughly the same financial volume will be reduced so that the result is fiscally neutral. The ideal opportunity will be given by the government tomorrow. We will vote on the Senate's motion to abolish property acquisition tax. This is about the same amount as the tax proposed by alcohol, tobacco and gambling, and if the government supports the Senate proposal and this tax is abolished, it can rely on our support to increase excise duties on those commodities where there is real danger of increasing dependence. But if the government does not support the Senate proposal, we will prepare a number of amendments over the holidays regarding income tax or other direct contributions and offer it to the government as an alternative. Yes, we will support excise duties on harmful commodities, but you support our proposals to reduce other taxes that have nothing to do with addiction. If the government goes to this open debate, then I will trust her to fight addiction. If it doesn't work, it is obvious that the argument is false, proxy and false, that the government is nothing more than to increase the overall tax burden on citizens, and that addiction doesn't want to fight, but it wants to make even more money on citizens' dependence... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm sorry, I can't do this anymore. Thank you. I can continue to speak, but under certain assumptions I have taken the liberty of asking for. Thank you. We will know this in the third reading according to how our amendments will or will not be adopted. I therefore advise that we do not propose a rejection or support a motion to reject or re-work, we want to address this responsibly in the second reading, but we cannot count on our support for this proposal if at the end of the hearing it is clear that there will be an increase in the overall tax burden. If it comes to that, I'm a little afraid that it will, because the government is already calculating it in the plans for the 2020 budget, we can't support something like that, and at the same time, the government will convict itself of the lie that it's about fighting addiction. It's not! She's only after extra money! Don't believe these false arguments unless he wants to lower other taxes. However, I would like to address one thing very urgently and it is the proposal to reduce the tax deductibility of the technical provisions of insurance companies. Madam Secretary here argued the Solvency II Directive. Of course, the Solvency II Directive gives some minimum for the whole of the European Union, but of course no Member State is prevented from doing more. It's exactly the same as in the banking sector. At present, Czech banks have much higher capital adequacy than the relevant European Union regulatory directives require. And I'm asking the question - is that wrong? No, on the contrary, that's good. The financial sector has robust resistance to future crisis situations and extraordinary situations that we cannot claim to fail. Of course they will come, and the more resilient it will be, the less risk to the Czech taxpayer that he will have to intervene from his money through the state budget to stabilise the sector. I am just recalling the last financial crisis, when the Czech Republic was one of the four countries around the world, where the state budget did not have to intervene to stabilise the financial sector precisely because the financial sector was in such extremely good shape, the banks had high capital adequacy and the insurance companies had high reserves. [[15.40 hours]] The government has looted all the reserves in public budgets. It reduced the reserve for the debt service to an absolute minimum, drained the last balance on the account of the former National Property Fund, squeezed the liabilities of state-owned enterprises and companies with state participation to the maximum. It has increased the mandatory spending, which, of course, has once again reduced the company's resilience to future crisis situations. And now, with this proposal, he's trying to reduce the resistance in the private sector and increase the risk to an ordinary citizen that he's going to have to intervene in the future in a crisis situation in favour of the financial sector. That's so irresponsible! It's so dangerous! It's the most dangerous of the designs. It's the first time I've heard it. I've heard him many times in the last ten years. Always after consulting the regulator, with the Czech National Bank, we rejected such an idea as dangerous and irresponsible to future generations. And it is no coincidence that the Czech National Bank has a negative opinion on this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. The Czech National Bank as a regulator of our financial sector warns against adopting this proposal! And that's for the reasons I'm trying to call myself here. It simply reduces the stability and reduces the resistance of the Czech financial sector. What is quite spicy about it, and please note that you who mind how many dividends are fleeing abroad from the Czech financial sector and who are wondering how to do it to make those dividends run less. Well, then, do you know what will be the result of this proposal, which the secretary here defends? As a result, of course, more dividends will run. Because the money that's in those reserves today, they could have... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] I can't really... Vice-President, would you mind asking these ladies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u11	There. I'd like to ask you for some peace so that the President can express himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u12	Ladies, I'm sorry, I don't read it. I'm talking out of my head and I'm not able to formulate out of my head the moment I'm taking part in a tri-interview. I'm begging you to understand. Thank you. So I can catch a thread. As a result of this proposal, which the Minister here defends, there will be more dividends running. Because the money that now lies on the technical reserves, of course, those owners were happy to pay off, and that's foreign owners, as dividends. They didn't pay for them as dividends. They reasonably motivated by the state that the reserves would be tax-recognizable rather put them in reserves that serve to stability of the Czech financial sector. And now that the government's kind of cutting it down, what are they gonna do? Then they'll pay it off on the dividends. So when you ladies and gentlemen are moaning about how those evil foreign owners are taking the dividends abroad, this is one of the reasons they're gonna do it. If we do not accept this proposal, the money will remain in the reserves of Czech insurance companies for the stabilisation of the Czech financial sector. If we cut it off, they'll pay it off as dividends. Everyone just acts the way the environment motivates them. Another rather interesting accompanying phenomenon of this novel proposal presented by the government. I beg you very much to think about this. I would like very much to read the opinion of the Czech National Bank as a regulator. And I beg you very much to ask ourselves if it's worth it. Because what will be the result? The result will be a slightly higher tax return in 2020, perhaps still in 2021... [[Secretary Schiller says another year off the microphone.]] Madam Secretary says 2022, so... Oh, sorry, right. Not 2020 because the first tax period will be 2020. I've been corrected correctly, thank you. The result will be a higher tax return in 2021 and 2022 and then no more. And that higher tax return, this extraordinary, one-time, unrepeatable, will, of course, be applied to higher spending - unfortunately, given the government's priorities, priorities of more or less the dictatorial nature. So if we approve this proposal, we will reduce the resilience of the financial sector, increase the risk that an ordinary citizen will have to intervene once for the benefit of the private financial sector, and we will probably make some products more expensive. I agree that some articles, that this means automatic costing of life insurance, are not entirely correct. That's not true. But, of course, there will most likely be an increase in the price of products. We're gonna motivate the owners to take more dividends abroad. And all of this for not having any new tax revenues in 2023, we're just going to be considerably less resilient. And we ate a little bit more without getting anything out of it. That's "the flood" policy. Let's eat everything in the next two years, and those who come after us in 2022, let them do what they want with it. No matter what they do, we'll be much less resistant to crisis situations. Let them do much less with the fact that we made it worthwhile in 2021 and 2022 against mandatorial expenses, and in 2023, we're not gonna have anything to do with the mandatorial expenses, which we don't care about anymore! We'll notify our constituents that we've secured the money. But at the same time, we will laugh our children in the eye! The TOP 09, which thinks primarily of intergenerational solidarity, cannot support something like this either, and it wants to ask all of you to think further than the 2022 horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u13	That was Mr Kalousek. And now I'm going to ask for a speech from Minister Vojtěch Adam. But before that, I'll read two apologies. And he is Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for working reasons from 15.30 to the end of the meeting day and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes from today's meeting until the end of the meeting day from 15.30 for working reasons. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Members, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on this proposal by the Ministry of Finance and proudly take responsibility for the part concerning the increase in the tax burden on harmful commodities such as alcohol, tobacco and, of course, gambling. Indeed, I think that whoever knows me knows that my statements in this context are constant, are constant, and this is merely the conclusion of when I repeatedly appealed to the Ministry of Finance to address this issue. Because, while I agree that this is not a wholesome measure and that we really need to do a lot more, and we are doing a lot more of those measures and of course we are going to do it, so clearly higher taxation of alcohol and tobacco is one of the basic recommendations of the World Health Organization, one of the OECD's basic recommendations for the Czech Republic to combat dependence on these harmful commodities. That's an indisputable fact. [[15.50 hours]] Last year there was a big conference where representatives of the OECD arrived, who mapped Czech health care and pointed to the problems faced by Czech health care, the Czech society faces precisely in terms of alcohol and tobacco consumption. They also showed two graphs that are directly from the OECD report. [[He's showing charts.]] When you look at the excise duty on alcohol, the Czech Republic is on the tip of OECD countries. Just like with cigarettes. The third from the end in terms of tax burden is the price of a pack of cigarettes. So these are graphs that are directly from this message. It clearly shows that the recommendation is very strong from international organisations and experts: work to increase the tax burden on alcohol and tobacco, because it is precisely one of the key measures aimed at reducing consumption. Therefore, I very much welcome the fact that the Ministry of Finance has proceeded to increase excise duty, and thank you for that. The truth is that if we really look at the statistics that are unambiguous, then the Czech Republic does not come out of them well. On the contrary, we are actually at the forefront of alcohol consumption when I start with this commodity. Alcohol is, from my point of view, the biggest problem today, because the Czech Republic is now second to third in terms of alcohol consumption. When it comes to pure alcohol consumed in the Czech Republic, including infants, it goes somewhere around 11.5 to 12 litres per head. I repeat - including infants. This means that we really have an unflattering position in this regard at the top of the statistics, and I think that everyone, regardless of political affiliation, must perceive this. And they must perceive that this is a really serious problem. When we look at the statistics, we know that every tenth Čech country is at risk of alcohol addiction, 900,000 adults fall into the risk drinking category, 600,000 adults consume alcohol every day. Those are huge numbers. 27,000 people are treated for alcohol addiction. The first experiences with alcohol in the Czech Republic are on average at the age of 12. Twelve-year-olds, on average, consume the first alcohol in their lives. Again something that is in international comparison absolutely coming out of any rankings. The Czech Republic is on top of this. I think that really responsible politicians, responsible people who want to do something about it, must support one of those recommendations, and that is a higher tax burden on alcohol. The statistics are really very alarming. And that's not something we should be dealing with today. That's really something we're dealing with in the future. We have a problem with alcohol-related deaths. When we look -- once again, I show one graph -- the development of death with direct connection to alcohol consumption from 1994 to 2017 -- you can see that the line is rising steadily. Every year, alcohol-related deaths increase. This is a clear fact, these are the data of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, which, in my opinion, cannot be questioned. And we know clearly, and the studies show that a really higher tax burden leads to reduced consumption. This follows from all the surveys, the research between this young generation. The latest survey showed that 86 percent of adolescents described the availability of alcohol in the Czech Republic as very easy - 86 percent! And that availability is also a matter of price availability. In our country, alcohol is really very, very cheap. Here, the Minister of Finance has already said that there has been no increase in excise duty on alcohol in the last ten years. Since 2009, the average wage has increased by 45 per cent, but the tax burden has stagnated. And I think that is clearly the reason that alcohol remains very cheap, very accessible, and it leads to a significant increase in the availability of alcohol especially for the generation who has had the first experience since the age of 12. And then, of course, continued in the next period. This is something that should really concern us all, I think, because - and now again - alcohol is the cause of death in the case of 6.5 thousand people in the Czech Republic. Six percent of the total mortality in the Czech Republic is caused by alcohol. A very comprehensive study has been carried out which has calculated the cost of drinking alcohol in the amount of CZK 59 billion per year, which is 1.25 percent of GDP, while the State's excise tax profit is not even 10%. That's a total discrepancy. When we look at the cost to society - and these are, of course, not just health costs, they account for about 13 billion. These are also costs in terms of loss of productivity, in terms of pathological events associated with alcohol, traffic accidents and so on. It is something that I think is already really burdening the Czech state, burdening the Czech economy. And I am convinced that it is precisely the higher tax burden that can help this, or to reduce these major impacts on society in terms of alcohol consumption. When we look at tobacco, there's a similar situation. I'm here already showing that graph. The tax burden on cigarettes is the third lowest in OECD countries. Really very cheap cigarettes again compared to countries around the Czech Republic. 16,000 people die of smoking sickness every year. That's something that's very alarming again. And we know that, as with alcohol, the average age of the first smoking of classic cigarettes is 12.8 years of age. That means, again around the 12th year of age, children start smoking cigarettes. And it's often connected. Drinking alcohol and smoking cigarettes in such young children is really very, very alarming. Each fourth adult Čech smokes in the Czech Republic all the time. Even if it is true that in time, the number of people is falling. So I think that's something that we really should be dealing with. That it's not a political thing. It is a matter which, of course, aims also at saving the public health insurance system, because the treatment of all these people costs something and it is not small money, and also to saving on social costs, the social costs of drinking alcohol and tobacco. It is a matter that really, from my point of view, will help the whole of society in the future and is clearly based on expert advice. It's not an invention, it's not the Ministry of Health, it's not the Ministry of Finance. It's a WHO recommendation, OECD recommendation, it's a recommendation from experts, adictologists and so on. So from my point of view, this is clearly the right step and I would like to ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u15	I'll take my place. A further point of fact, then, is made by President Stanjura. I have two applications here. And the chairman of the ODS, Petr Fiala, will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u16	Thank you for the floor. I have a question for the Minister of Health, who has used the term alcohol very often here. No offense, I don't want to question the numbers or the statistics. I was just wondering if you were talking about alcohol or alcohol, beer and wine together. Why do I ask that? When you talk about how young people start drinking - now I don't mean children, but I talk about young people - the first drink is very often beer. Maybe we can agree on that. And your government has pushed for a tax reduction on draft beer. What's that got to do with what you just said here? Is it consistent or constant, as you said, you're constant in your opinions? If so, you totally lost to a draft beer with VAT. So I'd like to ask you when you were talking about the alcohol, the consumption and the like: where are we in the world's beer consumption? That's not what you're talking about. You're talking about alcohol. The beer where you put the VAT reduction on the draft beer. We supported it. I'm consistent that the taxes shouldn't go up. But if you're saying yes, you're going to choose one of the three commodities, and you're not talking about the two of them, you're even reducing the VAT, so what are you constant in, what's consistent about? Or is beer healthy for you? And young people can drink that beer? Or are we just talking about hard alcohol? I didn't get that from your performance. [[16.00 hours]] So I'd like to add the numbers you're talking about to split the debate into beer, wine and alcohol or hard alcohol if you want it to be easier. And then let's talk about it. That's how it all works out, but the proposed tax increase only applies to one category, and that's hard alcohol or excise alcohol tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u17	Well, thank you, too, for keeping time. So now I have three factual points to make. So I will read the order for you to prepare, dear colleagues: Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, Mr Jan Skopeček, and Mr David Kasal. Vice-President, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u18	Thank you, Mr President. President Stanjura has made one comment that I also wanted to make. But I also want to ask the Minister if the situation is as bad as he described it here - I am not questioning it, although, of course, the statistics that mean, how do they count and how do they interpret them, and what goes on for practical policy, we could talk about it here. But I want to ask the Minister, when the situation is so bad, what measures in the area of prevention, in the area of what is clearly the most effective in terms of combating addictive substances, the Ministry has prepared. Because this path that the government is taking here is the most comfortable way on the one hand, but on the other hand, according to all proven data, the least effective. And, of course, there is a risk that, especially for those low-income groups that have provenly greater problems with these addictive substances, they may turn more towards the black market and avoid putting more and more money into what they want to consume or consume anyway. So this is where prevention is important. I would certainly agree with you that it is necessary to concentrate on not subjecting young people to alcohol, tobacco, and other addictive substances, but again I wonder what the Ministry of Health is doing for this and whether it really focuses its forces there. Because what is proposed here seems more to me than a struggle for the health of the people as a struggle for the state budget to have higher incomes that it is not currently receiving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u19	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Jan Skopeček to speak and Mr David Kasal will prepare himself. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u20	Thank you very much. I have prepared a separate speech, but I could not speak on the basis of the Minister's argument, which claims that the solution to a bad situation and the level of alcohol consumption will certainly help increase the excise duty, because people have more. I quickly drew statistics on alcohol consumption, pure alcohol per head in the Czech Republic. Between 2012, 2013 and 2014, this consumption was five litres. She didn't move. Although average wages were rising, Minister. In 2017 - we certainly have average real wages greater than in 2012, 2013. Alcohol consumption is lower - 4.8. It is quite clear that excise duty and the amount of income do not affect the consumption of alcohol as you are telling us here. On the contrary, you underestimate the risk mentioned by Vice-President Fiala in the sense that when you increase the amount of alcohol that is called a non-elastic demand product, it means that those who depend on it, which are particularly low-income groups, will pay for it, for the same amount of money from their disposable income, they will have less money left to produce such as lunches for children in schools. Because these people will certainly prefer more expensive alcohol rather than devote it to products that can improve their health situation or help their children. So the argument is completely odd, it has nothing to do with the health aspect. You just want to redistribute more, you just want to have higher incomes. That's all. And you serve only as a decoy of Minister Schillerová, who needs more and more money in the state budget that she does not receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u21	I will now request the speech of Mr David Kasal, so far the final application for a factual one. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to answer for the Minister's reply to my colleagues from the ODS. I'm gonna use my own statistics, I don't know if I'm gonna answer everything, but only from one county, because kids aren't moving to an alcoholic hospital, but they're hospitalized in a children's ward. So it's four years' worth of statistics, sometimes from 2012 to 2016. So in those four years 76 children were hospitalized, the variance was from eight to seventeen years old, the variance was from 0.8 to 3.47. And it used to be that it was just to celebrate the end of the year or about a blush, nowadays it's anytime. And, of course, I'm gonna say one more thing. These kids have more money, it's more accessibility, so from this point of view, it's obvious. And it has been said here by colleague Stanjura, through Mr President, whether beer, wine, hard alcohol. Unfortunately, I have to tell you, it's like there's a lot of heavy alcohol in there. Kids drink it like water. Neither would many of us who are here, so they wouldn't drink a quarter of a liter. They pour it in a glass, drink it, and turn off the lights in five minutes and get them out of the ambulance. Another problem is that it is up to Mr Skopeček, through Mr President, that they are not low-income groups. They're kids who are dressed in super-clothes and they go around the discotheques and so on. It is, of course, a much broader problem. I don't want to just downplay this place, but it's really a more complex problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u23	Thank you. I also thank you for the precise respect of time and with the factual remark of President Stanjura, then Mr Skopeček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u24	I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Kasal, through you. I'm not questioning it. However, you basically described dysfunctional families. A dysfunctional family. Because the kids won't buy it. At the age of 12, no one should pour them a drink at the pub. Very often, they get the alcohol out of the house. Now explain to me the connection, if the alcohol is more expensive, and you're saying that the kids are in expensive clothes, I have no reason not to believe you - do you think it's gonna work? That's why we're talking about prevention, we're talking about functional families, so it doesn't happen, so teenagers don't get drunk at all. And that has nothing to do with excise duty on alcohol. I don't see any connection. Especially if you say it's from high-income families. I just don't see the connection. That is why President Fiala also asked about the preventive programmes which, in our opinion, are much more important. And the problem is serious. That's not what we're asking for. Let's think about whether the simplest instrument, which means increasing excise duty on alcohol, will lead to less ostracizing those children. We're afraid not. That it wouldn't go anywhere. Except that there will be higher revenue from the state budget. And that's what the dispute is about. Not whether the problem is serious or not. No one's questioning that. But to me, it's a sign of dysfunctional families, if such young children, eight years or twelve years. Seventeen-- well, that's complicated-- no one will ever know in that pub if he's 17 or 18 again, that's right on the edge of the age. And we've all been to high school, so I don't want to say that everyone here hasn't had a beer until they're 18. I don't think that would be true. But that's why I'm asking about the preventative programs or the inaccessibility of alcohol to teenagers. But that's not the price or the excise duty. It's definitely not there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u25	Well, thank you. Now Mr Skopeček, then Mr Kasal, then Mr Válek, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Stanjura said it a little bit to me. You mentioned they were children in expensive clothes. Do you really think that if the excise tax goes up a few percent and the alcohol gets a few crowns more expensive, that those kids who can afford expensive clothes will have the effect that they won't get the alcohol anymore and they won't consume it on the school trip or anywhere else after school? Of course I do. I have led the argument precisely to socially weak groups, where we also have a problem with alcoholism, and there I say that the increase in excise duty on alcoholics, addicts, will not lead to a decrease in consumption, but will only lead to more spending on the disposable income they have today, its relatively larger part on alcohol, and less will be left to those children who do not have enough to pay school lunches. We remember the subject well as we discussed it here. So it is not a controversy that the problem of alcoholism does not concern children. It is not an attempt to say that the amount of alcohol consumption is not a problem in the Czech Republic. And if we look at the time series of alcohol consumption in the Czech Republic, it's more or less in the same corridor, regardless of whether average wages are rising or whether the tax rate is changing. [[16.10 hours]] Just drinking alcohol is a deeper cultural traditional problem of the Czech Republic, access to alcohol, a certain degree of freedom to buy alcohol and close your eyes to the fact that it is sometimes bought in pubs and small children. But we can't save that by raising excise duties. That's a much deeper problem for us to take on repression. After all, we have examples of countries that have led this to an extreme when they introduced prohibition. What happened? Do you think alcohol consumption went down there? No! Only the black market with far less quality alcohol bloomed, and the health consequences were much worse for those countries and consumers. So, please, let's get our heads in the air and talk about this seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u27	Thank you. And now, Mr Kasal, then Mr Válek and Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond. On the one hand, you say it affects low-income groups, and then you say it doesn't hit high-income. So we have to choose. I don't think it's gonna be the same. Otherwise, to President Stanjura through Mr President. Yes, you're right that it's complex, but when you talk to these people, it's really about the availability. I'm not in Prague, it depends on the region. It's definitely a set of measures. Personally, I think from the experience I have that even the increase in the alcohol rate will have an effect. I'm not saying it's extremely big, but it's about how we agreed here that it's a deep problem, that there are a number of other influences that are indisputable, and I take this as one of the measures. And, of course, prevention there is irreplaceable. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u29	Thank you. Mr Válek now, then Mr Kalousek and Mr Polanský with factual remarks. Then Minister Vojtěch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u30	I will then enter into a proper discussion, but I have to respond to the previous speakers, just to be clear - I absolutely understand that nicotine and alcohol are harmful, it is necessary to try to reduce addiction and reduce the amount of those who are starting to smoke or drink alcohol. I understand all that. It is certainly a big problem and economic pressure to finance health care. But now it seems to me that the main strategy of government YES and social democracy to combat children's failure to drink is to raise the tax on alcohol. That would strike me as a very sad output of this coalition. That is, I would very much like - and I thank the speaker for saying that this is one of the steps - to hear the whole package of this government, one tiny piece of which will be the increase in that tax. So what's the strategy so the kids don't get any alcohol, drink, or buy alcohol at all? That's what I want to hear. And not by raising taxes, and that's how it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u31	Thank you and now President Kalousek with a point of fact, then Minister Vojtěch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u32	Thank you for the floor. I don't think there's any point in arguing about how much the government believes it's an effective move against addiction. Because no matter what one of us says, the numbers are talking. Well, look at the budgetary impact the government has on the proposal. It's a simple three-piece and very simple. It says: We do not count on a reduction in consumption, we only count on a higher tax collection. That's in the government's proposal! The government itself says that it does not believe that this will lead to a reduction in consumption. She just wants to believe the tax increase. There it is, so let's not fight! Yes, this is where I trust the government. It doesn't reduce consumption. I'd have a little doubt about the choice, because I think a lot is going to go into the gray economy. But simply, the government itself does not calculate in its calculations that there will be an effective reduction in consumption. I'd like to inform the Minister of Health if he's looked at these calculations, so let him check them. That's just the way it is. But please, I'm happy to raise my hand to increase excise duty on alcohol, tobacco and alcohol, if there are other taxes, e.g. Income tax, in the same volume reduced. Then I think it's fair, then I think it's beneficial, and I'm happy to support it. But I will never support just a simple increase in the overall tax burden.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u33	Thank you and now Minister Vojtěch and then Mrs Procházková. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I said in my speech that this really is not all-savory, I think it is recorded in this way, and that it is not by far the only measure to combat alcohol addiction through tobacco. It certainly is, and no one ever said that this is really the only thing we're gonna do, and then we're not gonna do it anymore. I don't think it did. On the contrary, it is one of the measures, from my point of view very effective on the basis of international studies of recommendations etc., I do not want to repeat myself here, but of course there are many of these measures. From the regulation of availability, regulation of advertising, support of adictological services, no doubt. We recently approved a new network of adictological services, which we are working on with Professor Miovský from an expert society of adictology, which includes. he was with us at a press conference where we presented this proposal and clearly supported it. Indeed, the availability of adictological care is indisputable. The proposal is on the table, it's approved by the Ministry, and now we're going to apply it in cooperation with the insurance companies. So I clearly agree that this is not the only measure. There must be a number of measures, it's a question of education, prevention, certainly yes. But I am convinced that, and those international studies prove that this measure is very effective and that if 86 percent of the children in the research say that alcohol is very easily available to us, it is also about the price. That's indisputable. So I say again - it's not the only measure, no doubt. But the measure is very effective based on international experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u35	I also thank you and now, with the last remark, Mrs Procházková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u36	Hello, everyone. The Minister has taken something from my mouth, but I would like to add one more thing to my previous speaker, Mr Válek, through Mr President. Remember, we're about to pass the law, I hope we can get to it, and here on the right hand side, you're encouraging that the limit of alcohol be allowed both on wheels and on water. And I think that one of those measures that the Minister here said is also our example. Ours, us adults, who, if we take the kids out for water and start drinking there or if we ride our bike from cellar to cellar when we fall, if this is a good example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u37	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík. Mr Válek, then Mr Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ferjenčík, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond to a colleague. Procházková about the watermen and the cyclists. My colleague, through Mr President, there is a limit of half a pardon, so no one really gets drunk. First of all. Second, especially cyclists drink beer primarily because they are thirsty. I don't expect anyone to start taking shots and then riding a bike along the Vltava on a sunny day. That's the second thing. And the third thing - in terms of the logic of the YES movement, the law has a positive budgetary impact, and that is the main thing that the YES movement is dealing with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u39	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in favour of having a beer with cyclists and watermen. They're doing it anyway. And when it gets legalized, I don't see any problem. Moreover, if I understand correctly, the tax should not be increased to beer, so the YES movement does not consider it alcohol, and I understand that, and on the contrary, it has reduced the tax to it, so it considers it a positive substance that needs to be supported by a tax reduction. And I just wanted to ask: If one of the Members and Members understood it so that I advised them to ride their bike and get confused like men and then fall into ditches by going from cellar to cellar and getting drunk, I never told anyone, I never advised anyone. And please don't! It's bad, I advise you as a doctor and as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u41	With another factual remark from Mr Bartošek's seat and Mrs Kovářová will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs Procházková through the Vice-President, my colleague, you mentioned the right side of the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, it is good to respect the opinion of KDU-ČSL, which says in the long term that it is important to separate from one another whether one wants to drive or drink or ride a boat and drink. For us the issue of prevention of addictive substances, the issue of road safety or water safety is important. We are aware, we are aware that a lot of injuries are due to alcohol consumption and the revaluation of our own forces. This means try to distinguish the right spectrum and individual sides. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u43	Now, Mrs Kovářová and Mr Skopeček will be ready. We're still in factual notes. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what we have been talking about for more than an hour. We talk about how cigarettes, alcohol, and gambling are harmful things. And we are also discussing, by the mouth of the Minister and the Minister, that this measure - raising excise duties - will protect the health of our people. I would believe that if you raised excise duties on beer and wine. Then I would truly believe that you are concerned about the welfare and health of our people. You can't pick this up because you're part of the populist government, and what would voters say? It would also be simple to say: alcohol, cigarettes, gambling are harmful things, we all know that, but we increase those taxes because we need money for the state budget. And it would have been done. But we're still talking about alcohol and cigarettes being harmful. But let's talk about why there's an increase in fees, administrative fees, for a cadastral. And they're increasing by 100%. Does this mean that the ministry will improve by a hundred percent? Let us discuss that the increase in the excise duty on natural gas will affect not only housing cooperatives and citizens, but also children's homes and senior homes. And these are topics that are important. And I would also like the Minister to respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u45	Now, then, Mr Jan Skopeček, your two minutes. And Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u46	Thank you very much. I want to respond again to the Minister of Health, who is constantly arguing here with international studies that an increase in excise duty will lead to a decline in consumption, whereas in the Ministry of Finance's material, we have that the budget is counting on a higher collection of excise duties, which means that the Ministry does not count on such a lower consumption of alcohol. So I have a feeling that two members of the same government are arguing completely contradictoryly about one bill. It's obvious that the material hasn't been properly processed, it hasn't been properly discussed by the government. I was going to propose to reject the bill at first reading anyway, but I think that both colleagues before me should do it, download the material and first discuss it with the government whether the effect of the proposal will rather be on the part of the Minister of Health, or that it will lead to lower consumption, or the effect will be on the side of the Ministry of Finance that it will lead to a higher collection, i.e. that people in the final will spend more money on alcoholic beverages. Both are impossible. And if we're here to discuss a government proposal, I think you should withdraw it and first discuss between yourselves what the argument is stronger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u47	Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Ambassador, please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u48	Thank you. I would also like to respond to the second speech of the Minister of Health. He here repeated in the second performance what in the first. He says - it's not the only step, it's not self-savable and so on, but no one else has named it. You didn't name any others except that you're preparing and you're going to be, no concrete step other than raising taxes, for example in the area of prevention, or making it harder for children and minors to access alcohol, you didn't say here. The chairman of the ODS asked Petr Fiala about this in his performance. You kept your mouth shut and repeated that it wasn't self-preservable. And I agree with you. I'm sure it isn't. The contradiction is evident between your approach, Minister of Health, and the Minister of Finance. Then I'll ask the Minister of Health directly. What percentage do you expect - based on international studies - if this proposal is approved, how much will the consumption of pure alcohol per head decrease? So we know what you're expecting. Because you've been studying, or your team has studied those international studies, so based on international experience, you can predict, in some sort of variance, I'm not going to catch you at a word, so we can check it out in a year and a half, for example, if the effect has shown up, that there has been a decrease in consumption. Because that's how you say "it will lead to a reduction in consumption" without any measurable objective is very simple. Such a goal cannot be checked when none is set. And then you say it went down by 0.0001 percent, so the target was fulfilled. Apparently, that's not the point. If we talked, and Mr Skopeček spoke about it, that it was 5 liters per head, in 2017, 4.8 liters per head of pure alcohol, I ask you if the law is passed, as you expect the average consumption in the first, second and third years after the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u49	Once again, I'm taking over the chair and, please, to the microphone of Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights, then we're going to renegotiate the factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill from the pen of the government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, with the support of the KSČM, among other things, increases excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. The Minister of Finance Schillerová stressed several times that she had heard experts' proposals, and the aim of increasing the contributions from these commodities is said to be to combat addiction. That's a very smiling excuse to draw attention from the primal nature of a thing that, oddly enough, is directly related to addiction. The bill effectively increases taxes in many areas - from charges on cadastrals to life insurance policies to taxes on winnings. So it is necessary for citizens to hear that this government wants to increase your taxes fundamentally and will cost you your life in the Czech Republic. That is, prepare, dear citizens, much more money from your pockets, which this government will draw out of your pockets with this law. This law increases dependence, but it is the state's dependence on the money that belongs to citizens. Clearly, the law did not pass a relevant assessment of the impact of regulation and was definitely not seen by experts. They would tell the honourable Minister and Prime Minister that gambling taxation will never pay the State the damage that gambling causes, and that the only solution is an absolute ban on slot machines and online versions of them on the Internet. I'm talking about winning slot machines. This is suggested by the SPD - but the government refuses - because it is rude to parasitically addictive, human misfortune, to beggar families, and, as the žid say, it is chucpe. A study by scientists at the National Institute of Mental Health presented clear figures to the government a few years ago. Gambling costs our company up to 16 billion crowns a year. These are social welfare expenses, treatment and so on, so even people who have absolutely nothing to do with gambling pay about CZK 16 billion from their taxes on gambling. So whoever says it's only those who play and so on and so on are actually paying off themselves, even though they have nothing to do with gambling at all. And not just that. Gambling brings 224 people to suicide a year. Add to that ruined families and also increased crime. Despite clear numbers and clear facts, he can't give up gambling money. Money takes precedence over human lives for our ministers and Prime Minister, over their happiness and security. As far as tobacco and alcohol are concerned, it should be said that no society has managed to eradicate them, because in a way they belong to people. To limit their negative effects and, on the contrary, to strengthen their positives, which I mean, for example, beer or wine, can be done in one way: social education, which will teach people so-called moderated use. [[16.30 hours]] Unlike gambling houses in cities and municipalities that can be eradicated, alcohol consumption and cigarettes will not limit taxes or taxes. And, as US economist Laffer once demonstrated, high taxes will not even bring higher incomes, they will only strengthen the incentive of consumers and entrepreneurs to circumvent the system. The unique evidence is prohibition in the United States, which had only one consequence: the state lost its alcohol revenue, and billions were collected by the Mafia, which the United States never got rid of again. The high excise duty on alcohol in the Czech Republic is directly behind the victims of the so-called. methanol affairs. If frauds weren't paid to pandorize and sell black liquor, the dead would be alive today. As with gambling victims, their killer is not only greedy slot operators, but also a state that creates conditions that encourage gambling addiction. And it's not just excise taxes, it's also sneaking up on taxes and charges in all the areas that this government amendment to the law brings. So once again, let me stress that we should not just talk about alcohol and tobacco, this government simply increases taxes. He raises taxes because they promised the impossible, and now they don't get the money. So it's going to get expensive, it's going to get expensive, and it's going to get worse for the citizens. They're gonna have to touch more in their wallet. That's right, that's right. That's right, that's the government's proposal. Arthur Laffer once wrote: High taxes have a negative impact on economic growth, because they weaken people's motivation for work performance, increase tax evasion and cause capital evasion, including human, so-called. brain drain. - And I ask, dear government, dear literally, is that what you're after? To make our country even less attractive to investors? To make our citizens' lives even more expensive? To increase the power of bureaucracy, which will have to face the greater motivation of the entire nation to circumvent taxes? That's the exact opposite of what you promised before the election. It's the opposite of what you made a commitment to in your programming statement. You cheated on your constituents and you took money from them just to bid them a few hundred before the election. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, leave the money to the people. It's their money, and you have their permission to take money only for what society needs. Stop feeding parasites sucked on the state budget, whether they are people who refuse to feed on their own work, or they are profitable political nonprofits, or they are cunning milkers of various state subsidies from commercial companies. Restrict bureaucracy, introduce eligible flat-rate taxes, start managing the ministries efficiently and suddenly you have tens, maybe hundreds of billions extra a year that you can leave to the citizens, and the more you leave them, the less you have to pay them in various social benefits. And enough to do it, my dear - literally dear government - is enough to do it a little. Start getting rid of the morbid dependence on citizens' money. We in the SPD do not doubt that alcohol or smoking is a problem from a certain point of view, such as children. But we are fundamentally different in solving such a problem. So for the reasons I said here, the SPD is proposing to reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u51	Thank you. I'm registering your motion. And now, please, for the debate by President Bartošek, who is signed up with priority rights, then we should get to the duly signed-up Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u52	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I think today's vote on the programme, as it has been, has clearly shown how the government coalition is thinking and addressing the issue of people in need. As today's first item in the agenda, we had the opportunity to include the possibility of dedebting children, helping people in need often have problems that are not caused. It is a point that is supported across the political spectrum, and this government coalition instead of deciding to help people with its votes, and has the full right to do so, has placed the first point in today's tax negotiations. This means not aid, but an increase in life in the Czech Republic. Personally, I can say I'm sorry. It is a matter of priorities, and I assume that you will return, Madam Secretary, because I will ask two questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u53	Yes, the secretary apologized for needing to use the bathroom, so we respect that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u54	I have some questions I'd like to ask her. And I'm sorry, it's a matter of priorities. I believe that the task of each government is primarily to help people. The question of raising taxes is a question of political decision, I respect it, but at this point you have put the tax before the help needed in the Czech Republic. What clearly appears is one crucial thing. A number of proposals are tabled to the Chamber of Deputies, and many of them are taking the parliamentary initiative. It's a standard process that's okay. That is why we have government bills that go through the ordinary legislative process, they are duly reminded, there are objections that are settled, and individual ministries have an apparatus at their disposal that can explain or work on individual reservations. What law should be passed by a standard legislative process other than a tax law? Unfortunately, in this case, the government comes up with a proposal that is underworked and half-baked because it so-called. RIA hasn't been processed. We do not really know how this bill will impact on the business environment, and it is one of the things that, for example, I know, reminded the MIT, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which said that it would very likely have a negative impact on the business environment. The Czech National Bank also had comments that had not been settled. Is that what you want to sign for? Is that why you want to raise your hand? The Minister for Health said here what this government is doing and preparing for addiction and how it is helping these people. You see, Minister, I, as a therapist, worked with people who went through addiction for almost 11 years. And what has been said here in different ways, who are or are not related to addiction, does not choose your age, education, social status, nor does your religion and political orientation. If addiction comes, it will completely dominate you, and it doesn't matter if you walk in expensive shoes or beg. And it doesn't matter how much excise duty you get, because if you're addicted, you're gonna get your own drug, whether it's alcohol or whatever, you're just gonna get the money. Whether it's illegal activity, theft, prostitution or anything else. It's just reality in the world of addiction. And if the government is holed up here, what it has done, then I wonder how this government supports organizations, especially nonprofits that are involved in prevention and treatment. It is quite simple, it is not-for-profit organisations in the social sector that do so, and if table salaries have been raised, it is these organisations that deal with prevention and treatment that have not been added. That means you're holed up in helping prevention and treatment organizations - the opposite is true! [[16.40 hours]] It must be realized that one of the things that gets expensive here is gambling. We currently have a valid law which is very good and good on a European scale and introduces a number of adictological brakes. And I'm asking how it is possible that in the time it has been approved, the Treasury has not been able to implement the adictological brakes that this law contains, which protects a part of the population that is vulnerable to addiction, which is vulnerable to pathological play. Why isn't a register of players built? How is it that a register is not built that prevents people from e.g. Those who are addicted to gambling had a stop sign so they couldn't play? How is it possible that during the time we had fun over the years when it was approved, e.g. didn't he build a register so that gambling wouldn't be allowed to happen to those who don't pay alimony? You're inventing various tools to help and improve. All you have to do is do what's already there. There is a backup maintenance, etc. Why don't you take a route that's already approved and you have it at your disposal? I apologize, but whether from the position of Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Health it is a failure in the direction of a vulnerable part of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Where do you raise money to prevent it? Where do you install adictological brakes? Where are your other instruments? Where do you have the strengthening of a nonprofit sector that treats people who are addicted? Where is it? Instead, you come up with an increase in taxes. The beautiful rhetorical exercises that we have to make alcohol more expensive to prevent addiction. And then, boom, we're gonna come in here and we're gonna get the winnings, so what if the winners want to buy the expensive alcohol for it, so we're gonna take 15 percent of the winnings, right, they don't deserve to win, we're gonna take 15 percent of it. This is the prevention of addiction? And my question is: I'm sure you have the annual reports of the National Drug Center that say that gambling is moving into online space. Within a period of two or four years 50 percent of gambling will be online. And the most vulnerable group is group 14 to 16, those who grow up. What you have done to protect the most vulnerable, i.e. Teenagers? Instead, we have a law on gambling in the commentary proceedings. And what you don't know. So this government cares about preventing, treating and protecting the population from addiction, that it actually makes it easier to register players into online space. In fact, one of the steps taken by this government is not about making it difficult and increasing the threshold of availability. On the contrary, we say - copies of documents will suffice. We're not really going to ask you what you look like, if this document is yours, if you register properly, there's no need for a physical registration. This means that this government, in its step, says "we're going to increase alcohol, cigarettes and gambling," goes across from the gambling industry and online gambling because it makes it easier to register in the system! You call this protecting vulnerable or prone to addiction, making it easier for them to play? The question is - you say "we're going to raise all kinds of gambling except for classic boxes, it's at 35 percent." I'm asking why. Why, when this kind of play is the most toxic, most accessible even in excluded locations? Why don't you go down the road to taxation for this industry as well? Does this mean that you and Mr. Valenta have superior relationships, that you're not expensive? Or do you just say-- this is a gambling area-- [[The Treasury Secretary has a reminder off the microphone from the newsstand table.]] You yourself said in your report at the beginning that it's 35 percent, that you're not going to increase it there. And I'm saying why, since you're already fighting so intensely, why some part of this gamble is supposed to get out of your way. And one more thing I'm interested in -- and I'm going back to the beginning, the RIA, and the impact on the business environment. You're arguing here that it's gonna get expensive and make it worse. And the RIA is just important to show where the line is, where it's right to tax, but it doesn't open up to the black industry yet. Do you have a measure of where the rate of the tax is that it doesn't start to come here and smuggle tobacco? Have you measured that the rate of taxation won't open another Dragon Drak that's worth panting alcohol again? Because from a certain level of taxation, it is worth acting illegally, because the profit rate is just interesting. You have no such thing! Your only motivation was: we need money for the state budget, so we're gonna reach for them where the most of them are right now. So insurance companies have some reserves, gambling too, so let's touch it. By failing to process the RIA, by not being willing to respect some of the risks posed by this law, you are exposing the future of the Czech Republic to great problems that will probably have to be solved by someone else. Personally, I'm sorry for the fact that as a government coalition, you have the ministry's bureaucratic apparatus at your disposal, everything to do quality work. Instead, you fucked it up, and the only motivation is to pull money out of people. I'm sorry to hear that. Because you don't care about people. You don't take systemic steps. You don't solve those who are vulnerable. All you care about is getting money out of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u55	Now I have one factual point here, so I call on Mrs Kateřina Valachová - your two minutes - to comment on the microphone. And if there is no further application for the facts, then Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u56	The coalition MEPs certainly want to deal with the execution of child debts, after all, the two parliamentary proposals for which Members from the opposition have also been invited are in line. By your means, Mr President, Jan Bartošek certainly knows this because he is one of them. And both of the proposals enjoy the approval of the Minister of Justice. So I think if someone doesn't want to solve something, it looks different. No doubt today we should discuss the amendment to the insolvency law. If that doesn't happen, because, eventually, we're going to discuss other topics, it's true that it's a matter of priorities... I would just like to point out that it is certainly a priority for expenditure and revenue to correspond. And if we did not submit this package, it would be the opposition that would accuse us of being irresponsible and not also looking on the revenue side of the budget and just throwing it away. So I just want to assure not only the House, but possibly anyone who will ever listen to us or read the log that the coalition wants to discuss the amendment to the insolvency law, and if it doesn't happen God forbid today, it will happen this week and we will propose a change to the program by the end of the week, so that this amendment to the insolvency law and the spins with the execution of child debt will be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u57	Thank you. Now for Mr Bartošek, the final application so far. All right, Congressman, you have the floor, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Valachová, I believe that you have tried to choose this turn as best you could, but believe me, today you had the choice, you had the opportunity to help people, and yet you supported instead of helping taxation. Of course I understand that good will, that if not today, Friday, if not Friday, then September, and if not September, then later. Your active choice determines your priorities. And today you put taxes above people's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u59	Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u60	By your means, Mr President. Although Jan Bartošek is following me, he's following me wrong, because otherwise he'd know I voted in favour. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, Kateřina Valachová does not yet have 51 percent in the Chamber of Deputies. I will strive to do so, and when I do, I will, of course, make a powerful decision with one vote and then approve. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u61	I will now ask for a speech in Mr Jan Skopeček's general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u62	Thank you very much. A few comments on the proposed law. I think we've jumped the government on the fat that's been preparing for us, because we've been discussing how it's best to fight addictions, whether alcohol, cigarettes, or gambling, and the goal of the law is somewhere else. And we can look, and that goal of the law is incarcerated in the very name of the law. So when you read the law, it's not a government bill that fights alcohol consumption and reduces gambling in the Czech Republic, but it's a government bill in the field of taxes in connection with increasing public budget revenues. This is the main and only objective of this bill. The fact that the Minister invited her party colleague here to make a decoy of trying to pull extra money out of taxpayers' pockets may be a nice theater, but the objective of the law is to be held in the very title, that means to have more money out of the budget, to redistribute even more, to have money on the meaningless promises that the ANO movement promised. And it's not just in the title. When we look at what the Minister is counting on to implement the state budget by approving this law, the largest item that this law is supposed to bring, the largest amount of money is not from cigarettes or alcohol, it is from the taxation of insurance companies' technical reserves. So if the Minister were fair, so rather than the ethics of how to save the population's health, the bill could also be called a law to reduce financial stability in the financial system. Because what else is reaching out to the reserves of insurance companies that voluntarily constitute over mandatory European legislation, rather than taxation of voluntary reserves of insurance companies, provisions to serve insurance companies during a period where there are more insurance events. So this law really has little to do with wanting to fight alcoholism or cigarettes, perhaps only the Minister of Health believes that. The law is to bring more money to the YES movement so that it can redistribute even more and promise even more before the next election. After all, this unfair argument also appears in the explanatory memorandum. The Minister notes that due to rising inflation, the relative tax burden on alcohol is falling due to rising real income in the population, and that therefore the rates need to be updated because people are taking more money and rising inflation, and therefore there is also a need to respond in taxes. But why can't the secretary remember a few months ago when we were here discussing our joint proposal with Mr Ferjenčík and the pirát, where we were under the same argument that people's incomes and wages had increased and inflation had increased, tried to update and increase the basic discount on the taxpayer after years? There the argument of rising real wages and rising inflation did not interest the Minister, because this would lead to a reduction in tax revenues, but when it is appropriate to draw more taxes on taxpayers' money, we will use this argument. How is that possible? It's absolutely crazy that we only use the argument when it's right for us to pull more money out of taxpayers' pockets. It is important to recall the time when the proposal to increase taxes comes. The bill comes at a time when, after the six-year reign of the YES movement at the Ministry of Finance, we have the record-highest tax burden in the Czech Republic in history. In 2017, the combined tax quota was 35,4%, in the following years, and according to the Ministry of Finance's material, the Ministry of Finance assumes that the tax quota will continue to grow, so we will have even greater taxes than we have today, which are already at the highest level in history. The YES movement and the Minister thus overcomes the period of economic recession, where, due to the decline in gross domestic product, the tax quota is growing logically, but it also exceeds the period of Vladimír Špidla and left-wing governments. So successful is the YES movement in pulling more and more money out of taxpayers' pockets. Leftist governments, right-wing governments, growth, decline, all this government and the Ministry of Finance have overcome under the YES movement, and thanks to the YES movement, we have reached the record-highest tax burden in the history of the Czech Republic. I want to ask Madam Secretary where this is going. Do you have any limit value on how far you want to go with the tax quota now that it's on record and you've outdone the Špidlův's government? Do you at least have an unspoken goal of stopping tax increases in quotation marks at 38%? A government that dares to say in the media that it's a government that doesn't raise taxes or even lower taxes? In the history of the Czech Republic, the highest tax due to the ANO movement and we have here again from the ANO movement a proposal that wants to increase them further. I think it is really high time that the financial institution of the Czech Republic, in addition to the so-called debt brake, also complements the tax brake. I promise here for the ODS club that we are already working on it and that we will present it in the autumn because I believe that with this government, which does not have a ceiling in when to stop pulling more money from taxpayers' pockets, it is essential that such a policy, such a brake in the financial constitution of the Czech Republic, is necessary, because in a short time, we or the citizens of the Czech Republic and companies would have no money left, only to redistribute the state budget and to transfer subsidies only to companies that they consider appropriate, and people would best have no money and would be dependent on the government in the form of various social benefits and fiscal transfers. This may be the true objective of the YES movement to really distribute as much as possible to people for them. This government is magical. On the one hand, it boasts that it increases pensions, boasts, on the one hand, that average incomes are rising, but in the second step it increases taxes, so that the extra money it has sent to people in quotation marks is returned to the state budget in a different way. It may have a good influence on this, but it is certainly not good news for this country, for citizens and for the Czech economy. Now I would stop at some points, some taxes that the Minister is proposing to increase. I consider one of the most problematic and insane proposals to increase the technical reserves of insurance companies. It is a measure that goes against the stability of the financial system in the Czech Republic. Please note that you want to punish insurance companies for creating, in addition to the minimum reserves, voluntary reserves in the future to ensure their stability in a period when they will pay more due to more insurance events. You simply touch the money of people who pay insurance companies operating on the Czech market. I don't understand it at all, or I understand it, because after you've already been able to vacuum and vacuum the privatization reserve, which has also been designated in the past as a reserve, for example, for the pension system when it goes into deficit, you're already vacuuming it and helping yourself with that money that no previous government has ever touched. You are helping yourself with it in the current budget, but it is not enough for you, you are also touching the money of private entities, insurance companies and people who pay insurance companies. Tobacco tax. Again, a very significant price increase not only by percentage, it has to be added that, thanks to VAT, the increase will be greater than the increase in excise duty. Here, of course, I want to say one important thing. I was surprised by the number itself, but 30% of the cigarette market today works by buying 30 percent of cigarettes from foreign entities, especially cross-border trade, where especially citizens of Germany and Austria go abroad to buy cigarettes, because they are cheaper for them than they are in their own country, which, of course, helps the Czech state budget, because this money spent on excise duty and VAT is the income of the Czech state budget, not the income of the German or Austrian state budget. Of course, it can be expected that such a sharp increase in excise duty on tobacco will also lead to a fall in motivation to go to the Czech Republic to buy these cigarettes and rather German and Austrian citizens will stop these trips and buy cigarettes in their own country, thus fulfilling their own budget without helping the budget in the Czech Republic. [[17,00 hours]] When we were discussing the tax package on the Sub-Committee on Taxation, Madam Secretary, your deputy was there, who brought an analysis of what taxes are in the surrounding countries where he argued where they are bigger everywhere. He just forgot that there is a different price level in the Czech Republic than in Germany or Austria, and the comparison of tax rates at absolute value is completely worthless information. I was surprised that someone from the Ministry of Finance at all with this argument, with this fatal ignorance, could come to the Sub-Committee on Taxation and argue there in favour of this law. The analysis did not contain a comparison of price levels, but did not contain a thorough analysis and debate on elasticity of demand, especially for products such as cigarettes and alcohol. Because the risk that there will actually be an increase in alcohol in the fact that it will deepen sociopathological phenomena in the weakest social groups is really great, because I think that we do not have to study large analyses, but if people who are simply used to buying some quantities of alcohol, some are even addicted, if you think they will forgive this consumption at a time when the excise tax is increased, I think that we are all wrong about lying in our own pocket and that the only effect will be that they will actually cut off their relatively large part of the alcohol and cigarette-related expenditure from their available income, and they will be left with less for the other products and services that they buy for their family. So this law has no positive aspect of helping these social groups, but rather the problems of their families and their situation will increase. For all these reasons, I join the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I also wanted to make a motion to dismiss the law. I think that even without these arguments, the dichotomy was enough in the argument of the Minister of Health and what is written in the explanatory report, when one ministry argues that it will lead to a reduction in consumption, the other argues that it will lead to an increased collection of taxes on tobacco and alcohol. I think that both are not possible enough and that first these ministries should clarify what effect is stronger. I fear the effect that the black market will grow, whether with cigarettes or alcohol. We had a pretty tragic experience with alcohol a few years ago, and I would hate to repeat it, I would hate to encourage consumers to buy alcohol on the black market, and I would hate for another methanol affair to start here with the effects on people's lives. So I call on this government, at a time when it draws the most money from taxpayers' pockets in the history of the Czech Republic, to finally stop for a while, to look at the spending side of the budget, to let the taxpayer exhale and not impose more taxes on him, even in such dangerous areas where it can lead to black markets breaking down with negative impacts on the health of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bláha will respond to your speech in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking the whole time, don't go behind that counter. But I couldn't take it anymore. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] Here we have heard a lecture about how we entrepreneurs poor people are most burdened by taxes at this time. If you, my colleague, had looked through Mr President at what income is made up of in the state register, you would have found that we all contribute most to VAT. And when was the biggest VAT? In the reign of the right-wing parties. Straight right! It was also a period of increase from 5 % to 15 %. It was an increase in value added services to 21 percent. So for putting a wreath on the customer's plate, we took 21 percent of the state for doing more work. So at the time, we were taking the state the most. Today, when VAT fell, of course, to all entrepreneurs who are the most burdened of VAT, which are all in the service, and believe that the most money goes to the state of VAT, so we pay much less. And the draft package is that we're going to pay even less. So that, I think, is the most important thing for us entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u65	Thank you. The following are the factual remarks of MPs Skopeček, Stanjura, Ferjenčík and Munzar. Mr. Skopeček is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u66	I also think I'll never respond to you again, and yet I'm not gonna get it. Well, I'll give you the chart. [[He's pointing.]] These are Eurostat data. It's a tax collection calculation for a gross domestic product. In 2017, 35,4 %. If you look, I have it until 2001. You won't find a bigger number anywhere. You just can't get the statistics drunk with a roll, you can't get drunk with the marketing you know. The numbers are clear. You simply burden the inhabitants and entrepreneurs of the Czech Republic most in history. As for the VAT increase, I'm in your position, my colleague, so I'll keep my mouth shut. You know well that many of those taxes that the right-wing governments raised during the crisis, I was not there at the time, I did not agree with it, but it was some reaction and some measures in crisis time, another part of it came from the implementation of pension reform, so you had a chance to return these taxes several times in the Chamber of Deputies to the original level before right-wing governments. We've done it several times. Some types of these taxes were also limited in time. You have always voted for these high taxes to continue, even though their creators counted on their limited duration, including, for example, solidarity tax. So who raised the taxes, it was you. You were the one who didn't take advantage of x's opportunities to go down. And because of you, because of the votes of the YES movement, the Czech Republic has the highest taxes in history.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u67	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u68	This increased VAT was approved by our Government and Parliament for 2013, 2014, 2015 - for Mr Bláha. For three years! You guys have longed for it. This applies today for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. So you're already leading 4:3 for those years. And for 2020, there's nothing you're gonna do about it, so you're running at least 5:3. Then you have to choose. Either it was wrong, and you've had the opportunity to change the wrong measure for six years, or it was a good thing. But choose. Because in Mr Bláha's logic, when there is high VAT on the right-wing parties, it is wrong, and when there is high VAT on the YES government, that is a good thing. That doesn't add up, the argument. By the way, those taxes were raised for three years because of the second pillar of pension reform your government canceled, but you kept the money from VAT. So who are you criticizing, Mr. Ambassador? Us or yourself? I think if you look in the mirror, or if you go to the Ministry of Finance and you see Minister Babiš, Minister Pilný and Minister Schillerová there, they're the ones who have done nothing in six years with the VAT, as you say very bad. [[17.10 hours]] But it's not true. In order not to be so simple, instead of two rates, we have three rates. And let's remember those promises that it's only going to be three items at a lower rate. Remember how Andrej Babiš here said it as Treasury Secretary: we will never spread it! Since then, every year some items go to the lower rate. And we support it. We have proposed several times that the base rate should be reduced to either 20 or 19 % and a reduced rate to one - 10 percent. You, the YES movement, have always voted against, so why are you criticizing us here? You've been in government for six years, and you've done nothing about it! And you still live in 2013. But we live in 2019 and are planning taxes for 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u69	Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond briefly to my colleague Bláha. Unfortunately, he's mystifying the public. The main revenue of the state budget is not VAT, it is social contributions. Social contributions from work are more than CZK 500 billion, VAT is less than CZK 300 billion, and when we look at labour taxation, another CZK 150 billion is personal income tax. So it's CZK 650 billion to tax labor, and I don't count health insurance, and less than 300 billion VAT. So in fact, what the state is living on is that it is taxing labor and not VAT. We think it is a mistake that labour taxation needs to be reduced, and unfortunately, the government is not doing that again, even though wage growth continues to lead to an increase in average labour taxation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u71	Thank you. On the basis of the information provided by the Czech Pirate Party's MP, I note that Mr Ferjenčík has a priority right in this debate because he has been assigned to present the opinion of the MP, and because Mr Ferjenčík is entered into the debate, he now has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the club's position, and first of all, I would like to remind you of one important statement. Sometimes the picture's worth a thousand. [[Shows an A3 sheet.]] I'd remind the secretary. In March 2018, the YES movement promised that it would never increase taxes. We have the year 2019, which means a year later, and we are going to increase taxes by about 10 billion crowns in the long term and by 10 billion crowns in a one-time period. Doesn't seem very consistent to me. On the other hand, I do not think that it is a priori badly increase excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes. Unfortunately, this measure is absolutely not accompanied by some other taxes being reduced. Under such circumstances, we would be willing to support this. If the excise tax on alcohol and cigarettes had increased and the tax on work had decreased, the pirát would have raised their hand for this law, the Minister of Health would be satisfied, the Treasury would not have lost or made money on it, and there is no problem. Unfortunately, you do not want to reduce labour taxation, even though it is constantly growing as average wages rise. And, as a result of the tax relief system, real labour taxation continues to grow. The income tax revenue of natural persons has increased by 13.3% year on year over the last six months, meaning 13.3% you have collected more from employees than last year and despite this, you are constantly refusing to reduce their taxes. All of a sudden, there are no inflation adjustments, and suddenly you don't care that the taxpayer discount hasn't been adjusted for more than 10 years, that today at real prices, the discount is a third lower than it was when it was accepted. You don't care about that all of a sudden. But instead, you raise other taxes. I say we have no problem raising excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes, but unfortunately we have a problem with a whole range of other measures contained in this rate package. The first thing is the total amateur gambling tax treatment, where there are incredible irregularities, it eliminates exchange rate betting in the Czech Republic, pushes the player out on the Internet, on websites of foreign companies. The withholding tax is a completely absurd concept for a betting course, where the better may give five matches or five separate tickets, one wins, four loses, so logically, if he's a professional, the four are a load for him, not just the amount on the winning ticket. This is a complete misunderstanding of the exchange rate betting you have shown in relation to its regulation in this tax package. Nor do you solve huge losses for the Czech economy in the area of poker, where it is not possible to run online poker servers in the Czech Republic because of completely absurd regulation. As a result, players play abroad and pay taxes abroad. It's a completely wasted opportunity again. The only thing you do is increase taxes on poker, while the harm of poker simply compares with slot machines is an incredible demagogy! The chapter itself is a one-off taxation of insurance reserves. In fact, you don't raise taxes for insurance companies, we would support that, we don't have a problem with sector tax if it's reasonably implemented, but we have a problem with the fact that instead of really taxing the financial sector, you're doing what you're going to do now, one time, you're going to withdraw money from it, and you're going to take that money from the future government. So you're going to take 10 billion from insurance companies one time, and then they're going to be in loss for a few years, and the next governments aren't going to pick anything. So now you spend it before the 2021 election, which you lose, I hope, and then the next government suddenly doesn't have that revenue. That is an entirely irresponsible measure. But even worse, you make insurance companies act irresponsible. You're saying that an insurance company that's made big reserves so that if there's a flood, or there's a chain crash on D1, or there's gonna be some similar calamity or disaster, those who have prepared themselves for it and put their money aside so they can pay off clients if there's any kind of trouble like this, you're not gonna give them money away, while those who are on the edge, who are now on the limit of prudential reserves, you're letting them be, you're not taxing them at all. It is absolutely absurd for anyone who is going to the crisis to be punished and, on the contrary, the one who is going to risk making the most money abroad should be rewarded by taxing his competition significantly. This is a completely incomprehensible measure, which is fundamentally critical of the Czech National Bank, points out that you have completely abandoned the impact assessment of this regulation, and you are simply de facto a one-time national of some of the reserves. That's what you're doing, and you're stealing it from the future government's perspective. Another big problem with this tax package is increasing heating in apartment buildings. I do not understand how social democrats and communists can support the increase in gas heating in apartment buildings. I find it completely antisocial, where you tax the boiler rooms that own the whole apartment buildings, and I don't know why. What do you have against people drowning gas at home together? It has relatively little impact on the environment, on the air in cities compared to coal. I don't understand why you want to tax it more. I also don't understand why you're increasing your deposit in the cadastral to double when digitalisation should, on the contrary, bring savings in the real estate cadastral administration. If you've made some bureaucratic costs there, you need to cut those costs and not solve it by increasing people's fees. Just increase the deposit fee in the cadastral to 2,000 is completely pointless at the time of digitization. In addition, we have a property acquisition tax of 4 percent, which should at least guarantee that one gets the rest of the service from the state for free. For this reason, I suggest we return this press to the process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u73	Thank you. Mr Munzar will now speak in the debate, Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, Madam Secretary. I would like to thank my previous speakers, through Mr President, for returning the debate on this law to tax issues, because at the beginning it may have seemed wrong that we were discussing the issue of the health of the population, the behaviour of the population and the approach to regulating addictive substances. But if I read you the full name of the press, which is called the government bill, which changes some tax laws in connection with raising public budgets, the government itself admits the only incentive it has to produce this bill, and that is an increase in taxes. An increase in taxes that you want to collect more, 10 billion crowns each year. In the following year, even 20 billion. from taxpayers' pockets. Increasing the taxes to seal the holes you yourself have made with your approach to the budget. When discussing the 2019 budget, I have here, since this counter, compared the government's behaviour to the budget as the behaviour of an irresponsible bohemian who spends afternoon parties, champagne flows through the flow, invites everyone to it, and yet is indebted and spread around with tips. Yet the glamour, the house of such a bohemian begins to decay and flow through the roof. And when the time of prosperity is over, the life of such a bohemian will end. It's about canned goods and hiding in an old hubertus from drops dripping from a broken roof and swearing that he'd rather not invest in his house than in parties. So many quotes, that's what I said six months ago. So the drip is already beginning, and the state's sweet hand no longer knows what pocket the taxpayer would take from. And so that it doesn't upset the majority population, at first glance, this tax increase goes not entirely to popular subjects. It points to, in quotes, bad insurance companies, bad smoking and alcohol, amoral gambling, winning lotteries. This can be seen as a measure against harmful conduct. But look really at the name of the press. That's where you'll find the real reason. It is not a speech by the Minister of Health, who is only trying to ex post here to explain why you have accepted these proposals. You're looking for income first, and then you're just rationalizing. You forgot what you said and what you have written in your program statement, and that's tax neutrality. That's what my colleagues were talking about. If you were to come up with a reduction in other taxes, income taxes, labor taxation, these proposals could be discussed. This is really just about raising taxes. Over the last few years, financial management has been steadily worsening. Despite economic growth, the future is eating through deficit budgets, little investment is being made and, in particular, operating expenditure is constantly growing under your governments, at the expense of investment. The total volume of the budget is increasing, but a structural problem has long arisen here, because operating expenditure of the State is growing much faster than capital expenditure. And let me quote you a few sentences: "We promote a stable and predictable tax environment. We aim to ensure equal and fair conditions for work and business and we will not increase the tax burden." I hope these things tell you something. They're from your government's programming statement. And what is the reality? We are presented with a bill whose only motivation is to raise taxes. The bill, when the government didn't even get the regulation's effects calculated, is missing from the RIA, as my previous speakers said here. The government doesn't need it. She calculated only school-met's income in the state budget. And this approach also bears witness to something. I was talking about responsible management of state finances. And how is the responsible lack of money on normal, every year recurring spending sticking with extraordinary and one-time incomes? This year it was the dissolution of reserves from the National Property Fund. According to the proposal in the tax package, the government wants to obtain 10 billion in one-off tax on insurance reserves. It's a one-time income that won't happen again in the next few years. Yet the government wants to use him for recurring mandatorial expenses. It is the taxation of reserves, which are formed in particular to cover future claims of beneficiaries from insurance contracts. The government thus punishes responsible actions and the creation of reserves. You are signaling the market that reserves are not to be created in the Czech Republic because they can be taxed at any time in the future. This only strengthens efforts to raise capital from the Czech Republic using dividends and not to create reserves. At the same time, you enter the housing sector with a tax package. And negative again. By design, you want to increase again the purchase of your own housing. The hidden tax is called the administrative fee for the deposit proposal you want to double. You argue that inflation requires this fee to be raised. And has inflation really been a hundred percent in recent years? It is unfair in a situation where the government also collects non-Christian real estate tax money and has long rejected our proposal to abolish this tax, which punishes those who want to buy their own housing. Since 2016, the real estate acquisition tax has been paid by the buyer from the money that he has already taxed once. They have to pay the state four percent of the property price as tax. And to do that, they have to pay the administrative service fees of the state, which is the deposit of documents in the cadastral. If there was a willingness on your part, Madam Secretary, to abolish the property acquisition tax, then it would be possible and justified to discuss the administrative costs of the change of ownership. That's just trying to get more money into the budget. At the same time, the Czech National Bank tightens the mortgage conditions, and the government is proposing a bill to increase the CNB's regulatory power. Instead of supporting ownership housing, the government, in fact, makes every step the opposite. At the same time, you want the tax package to cancel the gas tax exemption for domestic boiler rooms. You want to increase the cost of living for 400,000 households. As the explanatory report itself says, the proposed abolition of this exemption will mostly affect the low-income population groups. Those people who are getting expensive thanks to the government's housing policy. The entire tax package clearly shows that you have resigned from creating real fiscal policy and evaluating state action into the economy. You've narrowed it down to just one question: how much more of the people are you going to squeeze out? And this is seen in the development of the compound tax quota, which was 32,6 percent in 2015, and a few weeks ago you agreed on the government when you approved the medium-term outlook for the Czech budget, so you approved that the combined tax quota, you assume, will be 36.1 percent in 2021, which is a dramatic increase. And that is why I am leaning towards rejecting this proposal, this tax package, at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u75	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus will now speak in the debate, Mr Juránek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u76	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will also join the motion to reject this draft. And I'll just ask, can you do anything other than raise taxes? It's not a fairy tale pyšný princezna - coalmen, pay up! This is the Czech Republic. My position is not difficult, I have mentioned it several times. I promised the voters that I would never support any law that would raise taxes and support everyone else. It's definitely not that law. How far do you want to raise those excise duties? Last time the booze tax went up, you guys had an poisoning and a methanol affair. What are these people gonna do? Well, they're gonna drink that pussy, that cheap box wine that's not taxed, and they're gonna be drunk the same way. So that's some measure to improve the health situation of the population, that's total nonsense. On the contrary, it is an attack on Czech liqueurs and Czech alcohol producers for the benefit of counterfeits. You want a pack of cigarettes to cost 200 crowns? That reminds us of a little bit of American prohibition, when at least they did it by law by ban. Well, the result was gangsters and smuggling and stuff. If you think positive, you might think about health taxes - because there is no insurance in the Czech Republic, that is tax. So with that health tax, for example, you could reduce this health tax to motivate people not to smoke to take care of themselves. That would be a kind of positive measure. It's a restrictive measure of yours to pay the taxes and wait to see what happens. Of course, the higher the taxes, the higher the withdrawal, they tell you that in the first year of all. So I will, with permission, bow to rejecting this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u77	Thank you. Mr Holomčík's point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u78	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my colleague Klaus, because now he has created such a logical paradox in my head. He said here that he would never support any law that raises taxes, but he would support everyone else. I can explain that by supporting those proposals that will reduce taxes. At the same time, he said some time ago that he would not support any law coming from the European Union. What if a law comes from the European Union that leads to tax cuts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u79	Mr Klaus will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u80	Mr. Holomčík, logically I must commend you as a mathematician. But if there's a law coming from the European Union that cuts taxes, I'll eat the voting card first before I vote, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u81	In the debate, Mr Stanislav Juránek, the last one entered into the debate so far, will now be speaking. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u82	Dear colleagues, I don't have anything as funny as my colleague had before me, but I'd be happy to attend the show when he eats the card. Because I think there's going to be some kind of reduction in Europe's taxes after all. I would very much like to say that we are definitely against gambling as KDU-ČSL. However, when such a tax issue is being dealt with, it is always necessary to have the link on the other hand. And it has already been said here that there is no link, that the taxes that are collected in addition from gambling would actually help somehow to stretch the gambling into a form that could be a significant improvement in this area. And I would like to say here, before I say to the club's position on this matter, that there has not yet been one such thing, one matter concerning the cadastral. And I dare say it on all three points where this law touches the cadastral. Here, three types of charges are doubled. First of all, these are administrative charges for the adoption of a motion to initiate proceedings and the authorisation of a deposit in the Land Register. And that's from a thousand crowns to two thousand. The second, please pay particular attention, because this is the administrative fee for the adoption of a motion to initiate the procedure for authorising a deposit in the Land Register on the basis of documents relating - and now please listen - to the construction of a publicly beneficial structure for disposal of waste, water supply, draining and cleaning of waste water, for public transport, public education, public administration and similar public purposes. The total amount changes from 10,000 to 20,000. The third issue - I will return to that second point - the third issue is the administrative fee for the adoption of the full text of the declaration of division of the right to the house and the property right to the units to deposit in the Collection of Instruments or the acceptance of the agreement of joint owners to administer the immovable property to deposit in the Collection of Instruments. I just want us to be complete in this thing. I don't want to repeat what they said before me. But I would like to say that on the basis of this issue, I would like to point out one thing that is quite fundamentally lacking there, and that is the calculation of the burden on the budgets of cities and municipalities that will happen here in this way. Of course, it is also small municipalities, but of course it is the burden of this part of the city's budget. The second thing is that there is no quantification of the damage to families and those who want to build and who want to reasonably manage their own housing. These are two pretty serious things that I wanted to highlight. And with the others that have been heard since my previous speakers, I would like to say that the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club, which follows from these matters, is that we will certainly vote in favour of the completion of this material. We will certainly also vote in favour of rejecting this material. But there's one more thing. In the event that neither of these options passes, we will propose an extension of 30 days so that we can make good and responsible amendments, which will certainly protect the family first and the self-government second. This deadline should then contribute to making better and better decisions in conclusion. So this is our club's position. And I firmly believe that the first vote for completion will be passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u83	Mr Juránek was the last to report for the debate so far. President Bartošek and President Stanjura are still reporting for the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to make a procedural proposal at this point of discussion, and it reads: "The Chamber of Deputies interrupts the discussion of this point in the settlement of the proper review procedure of the RIA with an impact on the business environment." I consider this to be absolutely crucial, because, as I have already said, given that some factors are not properly justified and that there is a real risk of developing the black tobacco market, possibly with black alcohol, so I believe that we should have a proper settlement of this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u85	Yes, thank you. There was a procedural proposal. In the meantime, I've called the MPs into the ballroom. I will vote on this proposal. There's a motion to check out. I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We will vote on the motion to interrupt, as President Bartošek put it. We're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 168 Members registered, for 75, against 88. The motion was not accepted. We are continuing with the debate, with President Stanjura signed up for it. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u86	Thank you for the floor. Some things have already been said in the debate, but repetition is the mother of wisdom. Let's make a general comment first. We've been arguing over various tax laws here for years, whether the government increases taxes or not. We have long argued that the government increases taxes. For example, by abolishing the end of the supergross wage and reducing direct taxes, which, with a very conservative estimate, makes 20 billion in favour of taxpayers a year. It's the fourth year, so at least the 80 billion the government has deprived the taxpayers. We could've left it to the employees. They'd know better than the government what to do with the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that we can finish the debate and debate on this point. Mr. Chairman, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u88	When we look at the bill's proposal, it has this, I'd say, Brussels name-- somehow darken it with a politically correct language. I'll read it. A government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues. Why so complicated when it could be called a government bill that raises taxes? That is precisely the content of this bill. But we call it - we don't, but the government calls it - in connection with increasing the revenue of the state budget. [[17.40 hours]] Well, how do state budget revenues go up? Well, by paying the taxpayers more. So it's obviously about raising taxes. So the bell rang and fairy tales about how the YES movement doesn't raise taxes are over. Since we have received the press, we know quite clearly that the promise, which so often and in my opinion very untruely the ANO politicians have shielded themselves - we will never allow tax increases - the promise is gone. This proposal is only about raising taxes. And it's not just about raising taxes on tobacco, alcohol, or gambling, how government politicians are really creating fog. The proposal has several parts, so let me go through them gradually, as the structure of this proposal is, and so that the Minister is not surprised, some of these parts are considered to be good and meaningful. Some. I'll tell you exactly which one. The first block is real estate tax. If the bill contained only this part, then we civil democrats would vote in favour of the bill. [[Mr Stanjura responded to the isolated screams from the left side of the Chamber with silence.]] This is logical because there is an extension of the scope of the exemption from property tax in this area. That's what the government does with a light heart, even if it's right. Because whose real estate tax revenue is that? Governments or municipalities? The community. So foreign tax revenues are much easier to reduce than they are to themselves. But I'm saying it's right. [[The finance secretary at the newsletter's desk responds off the microphone.]] Madam Secretary, don't talk to me. Be so kind. If you have anything to say, sign in and we can argue over the microphone together. Plus, I complimented you on that. Madam Secretary is embarrassed. [[I didn't see that coming. - Screams and restlessness in the room.]] I commended the Minister. That's very rare. Maybe that's for a memorial note. The scope of the exemption in the fight against drought, the fight against climate change and so on and so on is increasing. It will make life easier for owners, especially those landscape elements. So that's really good, and in this part, the government would get our support. Unfortunately, the government has attached many other things to this. Maybe I'd like to focus on something the secretary doesn't like to hear. She says it's not a sector tax for insurance companies, but it's a sector tax for insurance companies. It's called a little different, with the argument of why to name it exactly, if we can describe it somehow and obscure the thing. It is the taxation of the technical provisions of the insurance undertaking. First, let me briefly sum up five basic reasons why this is wrong, and then I'll introduce you to the whole market. And you know very well that if the whole market agrees on any position on the law, it's a matter more special than normal. Annual profit in the entire insurance sector was less than CZK 12 billion in 2018. In the whole area, when you add up the profits of all insurance companies on the market. The government is coming up with a plan to declare a tax with a planned yield of around 10 billion. So about a year's worth of profits, the government wants to take insurance companies with it, and the government is right when it says that the reserves were created differently by the insurance companies. The more careful, more elaborate, more conservative ones, that means those who think of their clients, created even higher reserves than others. What does the government say? Who responsiblely managed, who created reserves to apply any claims to clients, will be punished fairly and will be taxed and we will take the money because we know much better than the insurance companies that have it for their clients, what we can do with the money. In particular, those higher reserves are provided by insurance companies operating throughout the market, geographically and throughout the market of all insurance products. And they just know that sometimes a natural disaster doesn't avoid them. The government may decide that there will be no natural disaster in the Czech Republic, but I do not know if that would be the case. We've already had a government here that commanded the wind and the rain, and how it turned out. So the more careful will really be punished. The higher reserves therefore applied those insurance companies whose possible fall would endanger the whole Czech economy and would therefore require additional taxpayers' funds. If the reserves weren't high enough and there was a natural disaster, then eventually the taxpayers would pay for it on the way of the state budget. It is true that the Ministry of Finance has considered such a step in history several times. That's just true, and I don't think it's a new idea. I think especially the officials who are in those union survivors know that. But at the end of the day, the simple thought has always been won that the caution of large insurance companies is appropriate, and the proposal has not been passed to the bill and has not been submitted to the Government or the Chamber of Deputies. And now I will introduce you to the more detailed opinion of the Czech Insurance Association against the taxation of technical reserves of insurance companies. At the end of May, the Government approved a draft law which, with effect from 1 January 2020, imposed a tax on the so-called technical reserves of insurance undertakings, or technically changes the method of determining...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, please rest in the left side of the hall so we can proceed. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u90	...changes the method of determining their tax deductibility. To date, the tax-recognition technical provisions which insurance companies have included in the accounts have been recognised. According to this draft law, tax-recognition technical provisions should be created on the basis of the European directive Solvent II or Solvency II, and the positive difference between the accounting and Solvency II reserves should be taxed on a one-off basis at the end of this year. And what do the insurance companies themselves say about that? First of all, it's eating the future. Because, according to Solvency II, the reserves are currently lower - but to get back to it, even to the idea. What does the Solvency II actually say about the reserves? It sets not their maximum amount, then it would be possible to consider if a maximum amount were to be set, to tax it but to set a minimum amount. Minimal. And what does our government say? Whoever has reserves higher than the minimum, we tax them. It's not normal to make a reserve bigger than the minimum. The question is why. What's wrong with that? A cautious approach to insurance companies. And with this absurd argument, it tells us that it is actually under the European directive. But I note that the directive sets minimum reserves. Very often here we like to talk about the fact that the financial sector is stable, whether banking or insurance companies. And it's true. This step leads to less stable, less efficient, less prepared for possible shocks and extraordinary occasions. Because the $10 billion just comes in handy. That is the only reason to draw the figures in the budget so that we can then claim that the deficit is merely, in quotation marks, just 40 billion. It doesn't make any other logic, because having a reserve bigger than the minimum... The government's idea of setting minimum reserves and citizens may come up next. And he's gonna say three months' salary or six months' salary, and whoever has more, we're gonna give it extra tax. Why he's got so much money in the reserve, that's suspicious. We could use that, then we could split it. We'd do the good ones. Not that they decide what to do with the money. Does that seem absurd to you? Well, it's absurd. But equally absurd is this government proposal. This is a one-time budget income. The government itself admits that. It's gonna go off for two years, but it's a one-time income. If that disposable income were to be used for something extraordinary... [[Silence due to noise in the left side of the meeting room.]] [[17.50 hours]] If this disposable income were to be used for something extraordinary, it might be for discussion, but the government isn't planning anything like that. This one-off income is intended to be used in the current operating expenditure of the State. By chance, in the last two years of this government's term of office before the next election. So the next government, whatever it is, will have nothing to do with this measure. What's systemic about it? Nothing at all. We just need the $10 billion, and we don't care, virtually. The government doesn't care what the insurance market does about it. Appreciable reserves are now about 50 billion higher than the solvency II reserves, which also gives an estimate of about 10 billion at 19 percent tax. As someone here said today: a simple three-piece - 50 times 0.19, and I have 10 billion in the state budget. The critical area is seen by insurance companies in particular in the field of life insurance. This is where we're supposed to take the means that don't exist yet. Insurance companies say, and they are right, that dramatically incorrect is a new method of taxation for life insurance. Accounting technical provisions for life insurance are created according to the insurance company of fixed and non-changing rules.... [[Relax for restlessness in the left side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u91	Yes, Prime Minister. Once again, I ask for peace, so that we can finish discussing this point. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u92	If anyone's not having fun, have them have two or three coffees and come back in about 60 minutes. You won't miss the vote, don't worry. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] The accounting technical provisions for life insurance are created according to the insurance undertaking of fixed and non-changing rules of insurance mathematics and their main purpose is to cover future - I note future - claims of beneficiaries arising from contracts concluded. So it's actually the money of clients that are ready to pay for future transactions in case, for example. there will be a significant deterioration in the state of health, or even death, or a significant reduction in...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u93	Now the situation is even worse, so let's not get all fixed up here, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can finish this whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u94	- or even to significantly restrict the ability to perform work or other desired activities. Given that, according to the Solvent II rules, the expected future gains are deducted from the reserves, their taxation will take place significantly in advance of and whether these uncertain future gains will be realised at all. So the government is proposing to tax profits that have not yet occurred, and it calls it the implementation of the European Solvency II Directive. The taxation of expected future gains in life insurance thus means the levy of tax on funds that insurance companies do not yet have, and in the event that there is not always generally uncertain assumptions about future developments over decades, they will not have them in the future. And that really is a unique situation. Taxation of profits that have not yet occurred and that may not even occur. But our kind government already wants to tax them. At present, the tax-recognition accounting technical provisions that insurance companies form under the Accounting Act are. In the future, the Ministry proposes to take into account provisions calculated under the Solvent II rules for taxation purposes. This so-called However, the solvency rules have been established, I have already said, to determine the minimum and optimal safe amount of capital that an insurance undertaking needs for its business. This calculation therefore does not directly follow up on other accounting items, is conceptually different and is contrary to the general accounting principles. For example, the deduction of future expected gains from the value of the liabilities is contrary to the principle of prudent accounting. This proposal also has retroactivity in it. The proposal effectively affects the activities of insurance undertakings, i.e. for previously created accounting reserves for each previously concluded insurance contract. That's very important. The government doesn't say it's future reserves. [[unintelligible]] He wants to tax something that insurance companies have created under another law, still valid. And that's the retroactivity. It is, in fact, sanctions for insurance undertakings fulfilling their prudential business obligations under the Insurance Act, namely the prudent valuation of liabilities to clients. As a result, the proposed adjustment punishes insurance companies for keeping funds that could be paid to shareholders in reserve for their clients if the liabilities are less prudent. I'd stick around for that. Some of my colleagues have already said this in the debate: in general, many of us, I point out from among us, not just the government, are criticizing the excessive flow of dividends from the Czech Republic abroad. In this case, rather than paying dividends to their owners, insurance companies created reserves for their clients. So they didn't take the money from the Czech Republic, they left it here for Czech clients. And what's the government's reaction? Then we'll get them for it! Is that a fight against dividends? What's likely to happen? Who would invest here if the government took all the annual profits into an extraordinary tax? What is the probability that the dividends will not be increased next time to the owners of insurance companies? Why would they leave the money here? Why would they leave money for Czech clients when the government is punishing them with taxes? They'd much rather be taken away from their foreign owners. And that may be the unintended, but very likely effect of this adjustment. I think what's interesting is information on the total amount of technical provisions. Total accounting technical reserves - I don't know which one of you knows, you can guess how much reserves they make in total. It's approximately 300 billion crowns. Of this, of course, 80 percent of the life insurance reserves I was talking about earlier, which is a brother of 240 billion for future uncertain profits. Yes, according to Solvence II, it should be 250, they've got 300 today, so we're gonna deliver the 50. Again, it has no logic. Each of you who has ever led some corporate accounting knows when I'm talking about the time resolution, the time differentiation of costs, the time differentiation of revenues, these are items that are very detailed by the auditors. And also very detailed financial authorities, if they come to check into a normal company, are watching what is accounted for in particular in time differentiated costs or revenues, whether there are no full costs in those costs, even though the service or the project will be consumed for more years and so on. So, of course, part of the reserves is the temporal distinction of insurance premiums, where the part of the premiums covering the risks of other periods must be transferred from law - law - to the provision of undeserved premiums, where this provision represents only a historical, traditional insurance terminology for a completely normal and logical time distinction of funds, as is common in any other business sector, as I mentioned earlier. Any attempt to limit tax-recognition temporal differentiation in the case of insurance companies would thus be completely absurd and would lead to discrimination against insurance against other sectors of the economy where the tax-recognition of temporal differentiation is not limited in any way. Specific question for the Minister: Why are we limiting the time resolution only in insurance and nowhere else? It has no logic, and I think those insurance companies quite rightly point to the discriminatory nature of this measure. What is the impact on insurance companies if this bill were approved? The measure affects the entire insurance sector. On average, insurance companies pay 90 per cent of the usual net annual profit, which is indeed an unprecedented one-off taxation of one business sector. So imagine that we would impose a 90% profit tax on other companies. I don't think the House could get away with that, I presume. But for insurance companies with government MPs, i.e. Members of the YES movement, social democracy and communists, are about to approve this 90 percent net profit tax. It has a discriminatory character again. Insurance companies pay 2.5 to 3 billion corporate tax each year, which is 19 percent at the rate. The proposed regulation therefore goes completely beyond this normal taxation. [[18.00 hours]] If today the government is considering introducing a sector tax on insurance to cover current budget expenditure, which sector of the economy will be affected next time? Well, there's gonna be one! [[In an elevated voice.]] Now the government has 10 billion for two years, and it won't be the third year, so the government will find another sector. Maybe it won't be banks like the Social Democrats want because Andrej Babiš is against - I think he knows why he's against - so maybe it'll be a different sector. Let's see who's got some profits, who we can take out extra taxes, and get them into the state budget. So it's an obvious example of tax discrimination. Higher insurance reserves are always in favour of clients. Their reduction leads to a reduction in the resilience of the sector, while insurance acts as a stabilizing element for the whole economy. Some insurance companies, however, pay an estimated 300 to 500 percent of net profit. You have heard well - 300 to 500 percent of net profit as a one-time tax. It's also discriminatory because, like I said, it doesn't affect all insurance companies the same way. For those who were more cautious, it will turn out to be much more. In addition, the provision II was not adopted because of taxation, but as a protection of clients for the minimum amount of reserves, not for the taxation of reserves, as the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Czech Republic have misled us. The taxation of future life insurance profits is actually a sign for start-up insurance companies at a time - the environmental situation is particularly dramatic - when the expected future life insurance gains will be taxed, which means the tax on funds that insurance companies do not already have. Then this situation can really be liquidation, especially for start-ups, where the tax may even exceed their turnover - not profit, but turnover. What can be the impact on clients? Insurance companies expect price increases. That's not entirely surprising, is it? When you pay a higher tax on someone, it is a great assumption that one who pays higher taxes will transfer a part or a whole new tax burden to his clients. Insurance companies will look for ways to replace this blackout in their future income. So I don't know what that sentence is based on in the explanatory statement that you can't expect the growth of insurance for individuals and for companies. Insurance companies think the opposite. So I don't know if we're going to introduce a state insurance company that guarantees some prizes, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance, otherwise I don't know how the Ministry of Finance came up with this sentence from the explanatory memorandum, and I would quite like to hear from the Minister of Finance what he was based on when they submitted a comment to the government and to us, or the opinion that there will be no increase in premium prices for individuals or for companies. One-off taxation of reserves increases the sector's risk, and the shareholders will therefore demand a higher return. It's logical. Alternatively, all excess capital from insurance companies in the Czech Republic can also be withdrawn and invested in less risky countries that do not implement similar measures. As insurance companies have less money, there will be less innovation and a slowdown in the improvement of services. At least the investor's desire to put new funds into the sector will be reduced, which will lead to a reduction in the ability of insurance companies to invest in new services or improve their quality and will also have an impact on the investment return on life insurance. You know that even life insurance can occur, and very often it occurs, savings and investment income. What really exists - I don't know if the Treasury and the government have considered it - is a risk of conversion to branches. In view of the exceptional economic impact, it can be expected that insurance companies and their shareholders will consider all the options to limit the impact of the measures. The risk is that foreign shareholders of the insurance company, for example, decide to transfer their subsidiary to branches, with no supervision of the Czech National Bank and all reporting, including the calculation of Solvent II technical provisions, will take place outside the control of the Czech Republic to the country of residence of the parent company. This may cause the Czech Republic to lose direct regulatory control of a substantial part of the insurance sector. So my third question to the Minister whether they even considered this risk as minimal, medium or high. Quite interesting are the comments of the regulator, which means the Czech National Bank. In the framework of the commentary procedure, the Czech National Bank applied a number of comments which were not settled or not processed as a mandatory point of reference to the Government's bill because the settlement method is such that I do not accept it and formally settled it. I have the individual comments and the method of settlement, but I'm not going to tire you of it, I just have some summary. For example, the Czech National Bank, one of its fundamental comments, was that two years to pay, this is not a lack of decomp. Due to the significant impact of the proposed adjustment on insurance companies, the Czech National Bank - not the opposition - considers the Czech National Bank - to be insufficient as a regulator of decomposition within two years. The Czech National Bank expects legislation to lead to significant pressure on liquidity. As a result of the new legislation, insurance undertakings will be forced to sell some assets, which may lead to future losses, as otherwise these assets could be held until maturity. In this context, the Czech National Bank also draws attention to the risk of impact on clients, because the early forced sale of the investment portfolio may have a negative impact... [[A break for restlessness in the left side of the hall.]] Well, I think social democracy should listen to that in particular. They are quite well prepared to support this sector tax on their coalition partner, even though their sector tax does not stand a chance. But it's a good thing he doesn't stand a chance. In this I stand for a larger coalition partner in the government, because every sector tax is wrong, whether it's insurance companies or banks. So the Czech National Bank draws attention to the government, but also to us, because commentary proceedings are held publicly, anyone who wants to, can look at the comments that have been made in eKLEP and what the Ministry of Finance has done with them. So the Czech National Bank draws attention to the risks of impact on clients. To clients. Once again, to the clients. You're all stuck here with clients and protection, and I don't know... and here when the Czech National Bank points out the negative impact on clients, the government doesn't hear it. But we should hear it, because early forced sale of the investment portfolio may have a negative impact on the amount of profit shares attributed to life insurance clients. In the opinion of the Czech National Bank, one-off taxation will also result in a reduction of own resources, so that compliance with regulatory requirements cannot be excluded either. Opinion of the Minister of Finance - not accepted. Another substantial subject of the regulator, the Czech National Bank, is the content mismatch, which means an objective picture of differences in the level of liabilities. The Czech National Bank draws attention to the content mismatch between the scope of the liabilities included in the accounting technical provisions and the Solvency Technical Provisions. In the opinion of the Czech National Bank, a simplified comparison of the amount of Solvency and Accounting Technical Provisions does not have to give an objective picture of the difference in the amount of liabilities. Some reserves that are reported as technical in Czech accounting are considered non-technical reserves for the purpose of Solvency II. An example of this can be the provision to meet the liability obligations of the Czech insurer's office. Other items of accounting are called reserves, such as a provision for undeserved premiums, but it is actually a time distinction, as I have already mentioned, whose solution also differs from the accounting approach. There will therefore be double taxation, double taxation of these important items, which are recorded in a completely different way in the accounts and Solvent II. What did the government and the Treasury say? Nothing. Unacceptable. They don't care. Content confusion, other terminology. She just wants money, that's all she cares about. [[18.10 hours]] The Czech National Bank also points out that there are no data to verify the amount of reserves. The Czech National Bank notes that unlike accounting technical provisions that are part of the financial statements and are subject to external audit, the Czech National Bank does not have comparable detailed information and data for the Solvency Reserves to verify the amount of these reserves accordingly. This comment by the Czech National Bank directly contradicts the statement by the Ministry of Finance on the subjective nature of the accounting reserves. So I can translate it and simplify it. Although the technical reserves, which are billable, are still taxable, are verified by the auditor, their amount can be verified and confirmed by the Czech National Bank's regulator, the Czech National Bank does not know the reserves according to Solvent II. And the government says we're going to take one number that we can verify, and we're going to have the regulator verify it, and the other number that the regulator can't verify. Madam Secretary, who determines the amount of Solvency II reserves if the regulator doesn't know how to do it? The Treasury Department? The government? The Chamber of Deputies? The budget committee? I don't know who. This is a reminder from the CNB that it can't actually verify the second number, x minus y times 0.19 10 billion painted in the budget, but no one can verify y. Yet the government is counting on it, the number states, it publishes, and it's an unverifiable number. So imagine putting in a tax return, you have revenue, and you just put in some expenses. [[♪ Finger snapping ♪]] The tax office will come and say, "How are your expenses?" They're unverifiable, but I like the costs, that's a good item and I paid a 19 percent tax on the difference, I have the revenue well, thanks to EET of course, yes etc., I have documented, and so I shot those costs from the side, and of that I paid a tax. So this approach is being proposed by the government for this sector tax for insurance companies. The question that insurance companies are asking ourselves and we should ask ourselves whether insurance companies could have prepared themselves fairly for such an intervention. Whether it might have occurred to them that someone with such a person would come and tax them something, the reserves that they created when they were not to tax themselves. The Ministry of Finance argues that since the intention to change the principle of reserve taxation was part of a government statement, and so did the Minister in her introductory words, if I am not mistaken, and probably able to quote it, the insurance companies could have prepared themselves. So imagine, we could all prepare for a change in pensions, we have pension reform in the government statement. Are we all preparing to change pensions? Well, we're not, because the government, even though it has it in its government statement, isn't planning to do anything like that. It's in the same logic, because there's a sentence in the government's programming statement, and I'm not questioning it, the principle of taxing reserves is part of a government statement. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Finance promised that when the proposal started to be prepared, it would be in contact with the insurance sector and that a specific proposal could be negotiated. None of this happened, Madam Secretary, did it? There was no communication with the sector or the professional public, but instead the Ministry sent a short notice procedure, 13 days or 15, I don't know now, maybe 17 or 11 days, but it was definitely less than 20 days, it took such a significant tax intervention. One of the Ministry of Finance's arguments was that insurance companies manipulate profits by creating surplus accounting reserves and pay less tax resources. This position of the Ministry of Finance is completely passing away by the fact that, in a situation where there are no prospects for a fall in the tax rate for legal persons, such behaviour lacks any economic logic. I agree with that, if we were to approve that, for example, in three years or two years, corporate taxation will fall by 2, 3, 4 percentage points, it is a good thing to postpone taxation by taking some accounting tricks or consulting with auditors, to postpone the period when the tax will be lower. It has some economic rationality. At a time when no one - neither from the government nor from the opposition, but I did not notice a serious proposal to reduce the corporate tax rate, it does not give any economic logic, it is simply an invented argument. If I don't see any tax increases on the horizon at least in the medium term, why would I postpone paying taxes to some more favourable period that clearly doesn't happen? Moreover, and this must indeed be stressed, the accounting principles, the opinion of the auditors and, after all, the CNB cannot be changed from year to year, and insurance companies must comply with their approved rules when creating the budget and reserves. So much for the insurance companies being able to prepare themselves for this bill, because that's what the non-specific sentence in the government's programming statement is talking about. And it's true that that sentence is just there. But the promise - at least the insurance company tells us so, Madam Secretary, you can deny it to me or confirm it - the insurance company claims that no one has dealt with them on this particular proposal. Which, of course, is a hypothesis, or the claims of insurance companies, or the Czech Insurance Association, to be exact, and I just can't confirm it or deny it. I'm asking Madam Secretary whether it's true or not. If that's not true, then why do the insurance companies write it to us, I wonder if that's not true. Because I think from every serious act, for example. There is some written basis between the associations and the Ministry of Finance, even if they did not agree. Here is some record of the negotiations that took place, who was there, what was on the agenda and, for example, that the Ministry of Finance failed to comply with the proposals of the Czech Insurance Association or that it did not agree with the proposals of the Czech Insurance Association and so on. The Czech Insurance Association also points out the possible unconstitutional nature of the law. The transitional provision of the proposal creates suspicion of retroactive effects against past reserves. The draft law bears retroactive features as it affects past tax periods. Perhaps we could see what we are not only blaming, but also insurance companies for legislative processes. It's been said. President Bartošek tried to force the government to evaluate the effects of regulation, so-called RIA. No evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation was carried out on the draft law. I don't see here the Minister of Industry and Trade, who has a full mouth on how he cares about the business environment, but he obviously doesn't mind that this bill hasn't been evaluated for the impact on the business environment. If we had it, it would be a simpler debate for the government, but also for us. We could argue, or we could agree. But because the analysis is simply not, and I don't know why - Madam Secretary, another question: Why hasn't RIA been processed? Do you feel that tax laws do not affect the business environment? I don't feel that way. I think that tax laws directly concern the business environment. When the Minister mentioned that sentence from the government's programming statement, I would draw the Minister's attention to another sentence of the programming statement, which I believe is in direct conflict with this bill. The government says in its programming statement - it introduces the concept of fiscal neutrality. This means that if any taxes increase, others will decrease so that the overall impact on the tax burden is neutral. Madam Secretary, where is the tax neutrality in this bill? Is the programming declaration valid, or has the government abandoned the principle of fiscal neutrality? I really don't know. Apparently, the state's tax revenue is increasing by tens of billions here, if I just add up the figures you put in the part where there are impacts on public budgets. [[18.20 hours]] The bill was submitted to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure with a shorter period - and here I have it - 14 days. It wasn't even 13 or 17 but it was 14 days. In the context of this comment procedure, a number of serious comments from the mandatory point of view remained unfinished. There has also been no communication with the insurance sector, which is particularly affected by this law. Neither the Working Commission of the Government Legislative Council on Public Law II - Financial Law, nor the Government Legislative Council as a whole, commented on the bill. The executive here is flagrantly violating its own rules governing its procedure in the preparation of a government bill, from which, in the case of a bill, phases guaranteeing appropriate professional quality have been deleted. I want to ask the Minister why neither the LRV Working Commission on Public Law nor the Government Legislative Council as a whole has discussed this bill. This is not a very simple technical bill, which could be dealt with without discussion on the Government's Legislative Council. And then, of course, is blamed for the inadequacy of legal regulation, which I think is absolutely appropriate. So much in brief the main arguments against the sector section, that part of this tax package, which introduces a sectoral one-off tax of 10 billion. I tried to explain - maybe it's technically quite complicated, or the terminology is rather complex. I wanted to show you the unsystematicness of this step, the fact that we are punishing prudent and cautious insurance companies, the negative impact it will have on clients who are at risk of increasing their premiums, it threatens both individuals and companies, the potential retroactivity of the law, plus any other reservations I have made. So if, by any chance, this proposal goes through to second reading, I'm telling you, we're going to propose a release of this entire part that has no logic. I will move on to the next proposed change in the package and stay above CZK 100,000 in taxation. This is really - I don't know what I would call it, what appropriate adjective I would choose - a desperate step of government. In the fight against gambling, we tax winnings. I don't think it makes any sense anymore. But let's try an example of sports betting. Some kind of game where there's a clear favorite and course is 1.1, Madam Secretary. And the player bets 95 grand on his favorite, and the game goes according to the assumption, the favorite wins. The prize is CZK 104,500 at CZK 1.1 and that's a really low rate. Behold, the Czech government comes with a three-member 104.5 times 0.19, the player pays a tax of CZK 15,675. So even though he won, at a $90,000 deposit, he gets $6 175 more than he put in. [[less]] I know the secretary said it wasn't true in the press, but that's how the bill was written. If you're going to modify it, maybe, but in this bill, it's exactly like this. Maybe it's a good gamble fight, even if you win, you get less than you bet. I don't know if we can still call it a win, but it's definitely innovative, and it could certainly aspire to the Nobelův Prize for Economics and Game Theory. I think it's really funny. And even funnier, the secretary loves a receipt lottery or whatever it's called, we'll get a tax there. Imagine. Instead of canceling it, when we're fighting gambling and gambling, we don't want to cancel it, even though the opposition has repeatedly suggested it, the government's MPs voted against, so at least we're going to tax it. So the government admits what it resisted. It's not EET control activity anymore. It's already a gamble. I'm glad the government finally admitted that even the receipt lottery is a gamble, because there are special sections that will also pay 15 percent of the winnings for winning over 100,000 lottery receipts. I think it's right. If it's to be paid from a win, it's from every gamble, even from a receipt lottery. And it's quite likable that the government, after three years of covering up reality, admitted that the receipt lottery was a gamble. Perhaps even the Minister of Health could suggest a greater increase in gambling taxation, because he could get some money for those preventive programs he's been so silent about all along, saves a number of measures so far, and probably wants to dazzle us at some press conference. It's a shame he won't use it in this. I think it is extremely brave, but I would say that it is disrespectful to Members, in the explanatory memorandum it is written that RIA was drafted on this part of the law in 2015, and whoever wants to read the RIA from 2015 to the Gambling Act. And since I am a Member who likes to read the government's materials to control it, I have found RIA here, printed it, and I have actually found paragraphs concerning the taxation of winnings, and let me quote you from the final report on the impact assessment of RIA regulation from 2015, it was a justification report on the gambling tax bill that the Minister of Finance has passed, if you remember who it was - Andrej Babiš. And if you print out the RIA or find it on the web, I'll give you some advice, it's quite long, find pages 19 and 20. I'm the one who yellowed the few paragraphs. And I'll tell you what the Ministry of Finance, led by Andrej Babiš, writes about winning: Variant 2: Tax withholding tax all categories of gambling. The taxation of the prize winners carried out in the form of withholding tax paid directly by the gambling operator - that is what the Minister proposes, so the Ministry of Finance, under Andrej Babiš, writes - is theoretically feasible, but comes across a number of barriers and establishes a presumption of non-systemic exemptions that undermine efforts to maintain the fundamental principles of tax law mainly for the following reasons - says the RIA report: [[payer]] [[Tax payer]] First, the tax payer does not record the winners, including the bet figures and the winnings of these winners. [[Gambling operator]] [[currently with the exception of odds via the Internet network]] [[taxpayers]] - So he doesn't record it, but he's supposed to pay taxes. I wonder how it's gonna be controlled. Furthermore RIA reports from the time of the ministry of Andrej Babiš on finance: It would not be possible to apply a classic tax principle based on taxing the difference between costs and revenues, on the ground that the costs of the winners are not known. [[Betting]] [[Winnings]] Furthermore, the 2015 RIA report, as we should have read according to the explanatory memorandum to the 2019 Act, continues: It would not be possible to apply the loss of games to the basis for calculating the tax in the period when the profit was generated, thereby preventing a reduction in the tax liability by these very costs. [[count]] [[Bets]] [[Wins]] For some types of games the withholding tax is completely inappropriate - writes the Ministry of Andrej Babiš - especially from the point of view of the difficult definition of the tax base. [[Within one deposit a number of bets are made that only some of these bets can bring a win - typically interactive video lottery terminals, winning instrument, electromechanical roulette]] - I have no personal experience here but to trust the Treasury, but there's no reason why it's such a RIA report that I don't believe it. - In these cases, it would probably not be it is possible to tax only the amount paid at the end of the game, but it would be possible to take account of the funds entered and thus tax only the real prize. [[Lost]] [[the difference between the resources inserted and the means won]] For some types of games, there would also be a risk of an undesirable non-constitutional strangulation effect if deposits were not taken into account. - So many RIA messages. I think the Treasury and the government were counting on us not to read it. The Minister and the Government are proposing something against which the Ministry of Finance, from the time of Andrej Babiš, has opposed it with quite logical arguments. Madam Secretary, logically from my side, did you read the RIA here? Is that an argument for introduction? This is an argument against the introduction. And that is why in 2015 and in the following legislative process, the Ministry of Finance withdrew from the idea of taxing each win of withholding tax. Look, the money is missing, the professional reservations that the Ministry of Finance has prepared will be forgotten, only a sentence will be written - find it in 2015 - I think with a reasonable assumption that almost no one will find it, and when I took the job, I was sorry not to introduce you to it, so that you too would not know the serious arguments of the Ministry of Finance from when the finance minister was Andrej Babiš, who opposed the introduction of prizes over 100 grand. [[taxation?]] [[18.30 hours]] And by not being the new RIA, I don't know why, but it isn't, so I think the reason message says the old RIA is valid, and it says it's a bad idea, unrealizable, maybe unconstitutional, having a choking effect. We tax the players, the proceeds, and we don't know their costs. Logically. I wouldn't even want to know them. I don't understand this at all, Madam Secretary. If there are new expert arguments, such as those mechanical things, mechanical video terminals, I would assume a new report from RIA, which would have written: unlike 2015, when it was erroneously stated that it could not be chosen, that it is unconstitutional, that we cannot calculate it, we think it is possible for these reasons - a), b), c), d). There's nothing there at all, settle for what's in 2015 and vote for it because we're fighting gambling. As far as the taxation of gambling is concerned, the explanatory memorandum rightly states that the proposal is actually copying the original proposal of Sobotkův's government, which really wanted to introduce three rates for different types of gambling, so that, in the end, the Budget Committee, at that time under the direction of Mr Votava, and then the House as a whole, did actually do rates of two - one for classic instruments, I hope I am saying this correctly, of 35 percent and the other 23 percent. President Bartošek spoke of this. And we shouldn't go through with silence. As citizens' democrats, we supported the bill with the fact that the most valuable thing about this is the registration of players and the ban on playing for those who are not supposed to play. We have repeatedly supported this as the right principle, we have even proposed enlargements for those who do not pay child support, for those who take benefits in material distress and other restrictions, because these people, if they draw help from their fellow citizens, should not be allowed to throw money into slot machines and gambling! [[Very strongly.]] We were promised to do so. 2017, 2018, half of 2019 - and nothing. Nothing. In fact, the government did not fulfil the reason for which the opposition supported it at the time. No registration, restrictions on access to gambling to those who do not play, who are in insolvency, who have execution, none of this has happened. Even then, the government said that the result would be a reduction in gambling. Yes, in one area without a doubt, yes, but that is the merit of technological progress. No doubt there are many classic boxes, I always forget what it's called, slot machines - those are the classic ones. I'm sure they're all gone. But I don't think it's because of the law, but because of technological progress. I recently recorded information in public sources, but I couldn't remember how you were there, Madam Secretary, if I'm not mistaken - a record amount was bet last year. A record bet was wagered by our citizens in all kinds of gambling. After we have a new modern gambling law for three years, and I agree that it is modern, but the important principles are not applied. And the result is what? Has there been a fall in gambling? It didn't. The record amount was bet last year. So instead of assessing the effects of the steps that were meant to reduce gambling, or to step up and expand the group of people who aren't gambling, the government is once again moving towards a one-wheel solution - taxation. It doesn't matter to us whether it's 23 or 25. Madam Secretary, when will the players register be? You've been competing for three years, or how many? I don't know. It's almost like a myth, once every ten years you manage to compete with the register of players and in the meantime nothing happens at all. Two and a half years is a law valid and effective and it is a disgrace to the government and specifically the Ministry of Finance, I know you haven't been there all the time, so everyone who sat there at the time, that it was still a key element, at least for us, from that law is not implemented and not applicable. So those who receive benefits in material distress, those who have executions, do not pay their debtors. Those who are in insolvency can easily play and spend money. Instead of paying off their debts, instead of paying child support, instead of taking their benefits away, because they play vending machines, they can happily play and play, spend and spend thanks to the inactivity of the finance minister. And if they happen to win, we're gonna tax them. It doesn't matter that he doesn't do his duty, but we're gonna tax them. And now I don't know exactly what the proposal is, or exactly how much the government estimates it's in the budget for gambling, if you last a while, I'm sure I'll find it - 3.6 billion. [[Searches in its material]] That's not a bad number, but it's much more effective not to promote gambling. Not to tax him more, but to limit gambling. And it's similar to tobacco and alcohol, in which the government has completely failed. While the legislative instruments are at his disposal, President Bartošek spoke about it. That should be the real estate tax - well, we must commend the Ministry of Finance and the government. Sectoral tax for insurance companies - completely wrong, we cannot commend the government, on the contrary. Repeal of the exemption from gas from the gas tax from domestic boiler rooms. I quote, I really quote a part of the explanatory report on this proposed measure, which has negligible fiscal implications if I am not mistaken: "However, in the case of solid fuels, the possibility of taxing needs to be thoroughly analysed in particular with regard to potentially significant social impacts. For this reason, it is currently on the basis of Government Resolution No. 6/2017 an analysis should be carried out on the basis of Government Resolution No 6/2017. 222/2019 submitted to the Government by the end of September 2019.' Thus, the government is aware of the potential impact on the socially weak on this government proposal. She gave a clever analysis, but the government will get the results by the end of September. Look, and we on July 9, that's almost a quarter of a year before the government gets an analysis, we're already supposed to decide on the increase or possibly the introduction of this tax, because today the house boiler rooms are exempt from natural gas tax. Does that seem illogical to you? Me, too. I'm gonna tax it first, and then I'm gonna do an analysis, see if there's any negative social effects. I think it might be the other way around. First, analysis, if it turns out to be all right, I'll propose taxation. Here again, the government, as with Solvency II, is magical with European regulations. The government, when I simplify it, says: This bill, or this part of the law, does not conflict with European regulations. And he's right. The government is right. Because what do European regulations say? A Member State may exempt households from tax on natural gas, electricity and so on, even if it is a charitable organisation for a Member State. So it is in accordance with European law, but it is completely opposite. If the government comes up with a proposal to free it, because it is in accordance with European law, we can free it, to reduce housing costs a little bit, we are still saying how high housing costs are, and it is true, so we still want to increase housing costs for 400 000 households, with the fact that it is under European regulations. But, at the same time, European regulations say that we can free it, but our government has decided - it is not our government, the government of the Czech Republic has decided to abolish the liberation. I don't understand. Why are the 400,000 households supposed to have increased housing costs? Even though the government admits in its explanatory report that it will have the greatest impact on low-income groups and the smallest on high-income groups. This is quite logical, when the tax is equal, for a cube it pays exactly as low income and high income, so relatively of course the greatest impact is for a low income group and the largest for a high income group. [[Smallest]] But we have two whole sides about it, much longer than, for example, other parts of this bill. [[18.40 hours]] And the logical question is, Madam Secretary, who actually initiated it? Or were you looking for what is not yet taxed, and you need to tax everything that moves? I really don't understand. Someone complaining? Does it bother anybody that these 400,000 households have a slightly lower housing cost than those who are on the central heat supply? Attention. I'll tell you. The government is proposing this to combat the climate because it concluded that central heat supply is more environmentally friendly than a small boiler room, while the small boiler room has a lower tax than the central heat supply. So you see how nicely you can use anything to raise taxes. So, in the fight against climate in the Czech Republic, we will increase the natural gas tax for 400,000 households from domestic boiler rooms. I think China, India and other Asian countries will be joining soon, and the climate will certainly improve quickly. At least, I suppose. We could initiate a global UN conference to prevent a reduction in gas and electricity taxes for households. Then it makes sense if it's everywhere. Otherwise, I don't know why we're punishing those 400,000 households. And once again, I promise from the microphone that if it happens to pass into second reading, we're going to propose that this part of the law be released, because we don't think it makes any sense. Maybe we could say a few more words about the alcohol, the beer and the wine. [[With a smile:]] What, Minister? [[Fun in the hall.]] One billion is the supposed benefit. I don't know right now, but I'm sure the Minister will fill us in, saying there's an extremely low yield here, saying, if I remember correctly, 56 billion is the cost of alcohol treatment, if I remember correctly, Minister. [[Minister of Health Vojtěch from his bench: 59.]] How much? 59. And he said that about 10 percent of that is tax revenue. 10 percent of 59, I'm going to add that to my head, that's 5.9 billion. And the government in the first year 0.9 and in the second 1.1 billion yield plus. So consumption will rise by - how much, Minister? If it were to go down, the return should go down. If it dropped by 20 percent, it could be budgetaryly neutral. But the government does not expect consumption to fall by 20 percent in order to be budgetaryly neutral. On the contrary. The government is counting - and I would say right - commending the government for a realistic approach, the government does not expect alcohol consumption to fall. But increased tax times consumption 0.9 and in 2021 1.1. And that's convenient. And as the government rightly points out in its explanatory report, this is not a shared tax. This is the net income of the state budget, the county and the municipality nothing, because for excise taxes all taxes collected are the income of the state budget. Where's the fight? Where is it to reduce alcohol consumption in numbers? It's not. It's just fog, justification. Who wouldn't want to reduce alcohol consumption? Who among the politicians would call for more consumption? But the government is calling to keep its consumption low because it needs money. Drink like today, you pay more, and we'll give the billion to somebody, don't worry, we'll take care of your money, we're pretty good at that. There's a similar case with tobacco tax. I remember my fight with Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš about introducing a tobacco leaf tax. That's what I suggested here. I was labeled when I said it politely, uninformed, it was much more expressive that it was not a good idea, it was much more expressive for Andrej Babiš to come within six months with an excellent government idea to tax tobacco leaves. I kept them back then, just like everyone else did, and then I had the untaxed tobacco, already ground. And here was normally the one who sold it himself, with taxes and no taxes. With taxes and no taxes. [[It shows alternate fists - on the right hand and on the left hand.]] That's where hundreds of millions of people ran every year. It took a long time. Except at the instigation of the opposition, the state has taxed it. And so did the state of taxation - I know some of you have it - those boxes... [[A member of the first bench of Faltynek suggests: Warmed tobacco. Other Members give specific names.]] Warm tobacco, so we don't promote any company. I think the state here has been hesitant for too long. And the design that's here seems to me to be in favor of heated tobacco against classic cigarettes. It's like the government's making a marketing move like I just saw these hot tobacco sales points, like the government wants to support the producers in this, and they're saying this is going to have a lower tax, this is going to have a higher tax. So maybe you could change your habits. The government rightly states that this is a harmonised tax and that each Member State must fulfil two conditions. First, a higher tax on a certain weight, if I am not mistaken, and secondly, a weighted average sales price and excise duty. In 2018, as the explanatory memorandum rightly states, there's a minimum limit of 60 percent, so the government identified that the ratio was 59.55 percent, I'm sorry, I have to find it in the explanatory memorandum to quote the numbers correctly. [[Looking in Papers]] Thanks to this, we must - and I want to stress this - adopt a law change like the Czech Republic in order to achieve a minimum of 60 percent. That's all true. However, the proposal has evolved. If I have the right information from the press - I'm pointing out from the press, Madam Secretary, you've changed it directly to the government. Unless I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. Not everything in the press is true as it turns out. Well, if it's not, I'm sorry. However, hold on a second to find the explanatory note to quote the government precisely. I'd hate to paraphrase. Here we go. Increase in the rate of excise duty on tobacco products, raw tobacco and heated tobacco. I think the estimated revenues are unrealistic, they're too high. It is very difficult to argue, and I do not want to argue against the amount of taxes, but I think that the procedure chosen by the government in the past was much better, predictable and gradual. This bill impresses me that the government needed to draw some figures in the budget, so it added a three-member rate. I may be wrong, but I have a strong suspicion that it is. And so it is in this proposal with everything. I'm just gonna see if I've gone through everything. I don't want to waste any time. I've been through the insurance company's technical reserves. I've passed the $100,000 prizes. I received, and apparently all of you, but I did not receive it until today for an hour before I joined the debate, a letter that is written on the subject: Comments from the tobacco industry on the bill amending certain tax laws in connection with raising public budget revenues, House press number 509. And since I suppose I'm not the only one who received it at the last minute, I'll allow you to read the letter, it's rather short, don't worry: Madam, honourable Member, the Chamber of Deputies will be dealing with a bill that amends certain laws in the field of taxation in the near future - which is today. We would like to contact you on behalf of producers and importers of tobacco products brought together in the Czech branding association and to add some important information regarding the increase of excise duty on tobacco products. The Ministry of Finance represents the proposal as a 10% increase in the rate. However, given that the percentage is set as a percentage of the price for the final consumer and not of the non-tax price, in this case VAT will amount to an average of 17,5 per cent, provided that the tax is fully transferred to the price for the final consumer - a box of about 12 crowns. 'Cause I don't know how much a box costs today. Then I'm sure the Minister of Health will tell me whether it's enough or not. Twelve crowns per box should be increased if it passes. [[18.50 hours]] Based on experience from other countries - these will be the expert studies that the Minister of Health has referred to - we want to say that historically the highest jump tax increase will lead to a number of negative impacts and a long-term lower tax collection. In particular, the following can be expected: A significant increase in illegal trade - I don't think anyone in the Chamber of Deputies wants this at all - which, according to available data, has doubled in 2018 compared to 2017. And according to the latest measurements, the measurements are based on the collection of empty boxes, so-called. Empty pack survey, reaching more than 6 percent, with total non-domes, this is non-taxed consumption in the Czech Republic, then it is already 10 percent. The decline in legal cross-border purchases of tourists, especially from Germany and Austria - is about - which represent almost 30 percent of the volume of cigarettes sold in the Czech Republic. The increase in purchases of Czech residents, especially in Poland and Slovakia, where cigarettes are already cheaper than in the Czech Republic, and the latest measurements confirm this increasing purchasing trend. In order to minimise these negative effects, we believe that it is preferable to spread such a high increase into two steps within two years and to maintain the current percentage of 27 percent and to implement the increase in excise duty by applying a fixed and minimum rate tax. If I understand the letter correctly, and I didn't have time to fully think it through and analyze it, the producers aren't resisting price increases and tax increases. They merely point out the risks that could lead to an increase in income by 7 billion, by 7.7 billion, and that, on the contrary, tax revenue could fall. However, that is what I leave to consider and to assess each Member's approach. Mr Juránek, the cadastral office, spoke of this in a very nice part - an incomprehensible part for me too. So instead of canceling, or at least reducing the property acquisition tax, which is a tax that doesn't make any sense, but it's a fixed income of the state budget, the government tells us that we're going to pay twice as much at the cadastral office. The very right question was asked by Mr Juránek, and I will just repeat it because I have not heard the answer here. Will service quality increase by 100%? Will the cadastral entry be a hundred percent faster in time? That's not what the explanatory statement says. The reason report talks about it - I feel, Madam Secretary, 680 miles. increased income for the cadastral office. But why are we paying a hundred percent more? Explain it to me. Why? I don't understand. What other charges will we want to raise further, with the need for revenue? Too bad it doesn't say on the board any more - I don't know who's making up the shortcuts on the board, but it would be much more convenient to have that sign in connection with the increase in the revenue of the state budget. She's been definitely keeping our board out of the loop. If it were up to me, there's a government bill there to raise taxes. Everyone would know what we're debating here. There. And I'm going to make a brief summary in conclusion. Of course, I'm joining the motion to dismiss, or we're competing who was first. We were the first to compete, but we were the first to compete. Specifically, Mr Skopeček said it first. But we're glad that others are joining. Whether it's rejected or returned, it doesn't really matter. We'll support the return, we'll support the rejection. I will leave to Mr President whether we will vote first on rejection or repayment. There's been a lot of arguments here. I'll repeat the keys. An error in the legislative process. An extremely short reminder procedure. Ignoring the essential comments of mandatory comment points. Absolute ignorance of the views and comments of the regulator - Czech National Bank. Non-negotiation on the Legal Council of the Government. Even - remember, the government approved it, issued a press release, no doubt true, Madam Secretary, that you finished the bill directly to the government, so I expected every day it would come to the House. Look at the data. Look at the date the government approved it and when it came to the Chamber of Deputies. An unprecedented interval. I suspect it was first approved and then it was written. Otherwise, it's very simple. Otherwise, as important a law as the government claims, priority for today's meeting as item No. 1, such a law would... I would send a messenger. Right from that government to the Chamber of Deputies Post Office. Chop, stamp, accepted. Ten days and he can do it in a meeting. It took almost three weeks, I think. Three weeks before this tax package arrived in the House of Deputies. I don't know if it's electronic or mail. I don't know anymore. But if they walk, it'll be here in three hours and not in three weeks. So I really think the government approved it first, and then the text was just written, and maybe the reason message was edited afterwards. I wanted to remind you - and if you don't have it, we'll be happy to send it to you at the expense of our club, the RIA from 2015 which showed the senselessness of the proposal to tax withholding tax at 15 percent. But what I think is most wrong is the insurance companies, the sector tax. I know that I do not agree with my colleagues in social democracy, I see the former chairman of the Committee on Budgets, an honored colleague of Mr Votava, who is fiery defending the sector tax on banks. I read his commentary on some servers. Let's argue about that. But Mr Votavo through the Vice-President, isn't it strange to you that you can't and they can? Your sector tax is unacceptable and their sector tax is acceptable? What about you? You just vote with them, for theirs and yours nothing. I don't understand, but that's... Let me just remind you, they're both wrong. So that Mr Votava does not misinterpret as I agree with his proposal. He's wrong. Bad suggestion. But just as bad is the proposal of a sectoral insurance company, which sounds so poetic - taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies. That sounds so innocent. Who would have imagined underneath that it was a year-round profit of the entire sector. Another important point, which I think is completely flawed, is taxation or taxing 400,000 households. I really don't understand. I don't think that's how you fight the climate. I remember our many months of debate here about the Paris Agreement. Neither once, nor the Minister of the Environment, nor anyone else, the defenders of the Paris Agreement, made a key argument - we must abolish the exemption for gas taxes or household taxes, because central heat supply is more environmentally friendly and is in line with the fight against climate change. The overall impact of this proposal is almost 30 billion. per year. At least for the first two years, because 10 billion. We have insurance companies' taxation until the election. [[unintelligible]] 7.7 billion. tobacco, 3.6 billion gambling, 1.1 billion. alcohol, 760 miles. The cadastral, that's how it's going to pick up. So maybe it's 25 billion, Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. And so the story of the YES movement ends about how they don't raise taxes. Try to come back and say, "We propose to insurance companies 10 billion, raise taxes to citizens, raise gambling taxes from every win, we raise this here, we raise tax here." But look out! We're against tax increases. I know you're capable of saying that. Perhaps your marketers will come up with a good campaign that actually increases taxes means that more money will remain in their wallets. I don't know. But I'm sure it's not true. [[19.00 hours]] The government, or the ANO movement, has decided that there is a need to increase taxes in a forceful manner. Whether through insurance companies - impact on clients, whether through households that drown with their gas boiler rooms, whether to increase the cost of the cadastral, if someone who plays wins, we tax him too. And so I could go on. But let's try not to forget and commend the government for reducing property tax. And I don't mean that ironically. If the proposal - and there is one more good thing to remember, Madam Secretary. You propose to exempt from income tax not only voluntary associations of municipalities and municipalities, but also regions and states. And it is once again a measure that deserves the support of citizens' democrats. So if there was only real estate tax in that government package and--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-09-ps2017-033-01-002-009.u95	Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have 19 o'clock. So, if you don't mind, I'm gonna cut you off. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] I may have three more factual points, but they won't come to that. So I'll just read two apologies. Mr Jan Birke apologizes today from 18.15 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologises from 18.00 to the end of the day for health reasons. So I hereby adjourn the meeting. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00 and have a nice evening.
