ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u1	17. Proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Lubomír Zaorálek, Kateřina Valachová, Jan Birk and others for the issue of the Constitutional Act on the National referendum /German press 111/ - second reading Mrs Kateřina Valachová should make the proposal as an applicant. [[Voices that he's not in the O.R.]] Mrs Valachová, the plaintiff's representative is coming, so in the meantime I will remind you that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution is available as House prints 111/2 and 3. As Mrs Valachová is already here, I ask her to present this proposal as the appellants. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a proposal for a law on a national referendum as a petitioner, which is the Social Democrats and Democrats within the parliamentary club. After the first reading there was a discussion within the Permanent Commission for the Constitution and also for discussion in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I'm starting with this unusual reminder of the process, because it's important for what we're discussing right now. As you know, the Chamber of Deputies has received several proposals on how a national referendum is to be filled, which, as you know, is envisaged by the Constitution. The Constitution of the Czech Republic assumes that there is a law on a national referendum, and several political parties have responded to this by submitting parliamentary proposals. First of all, it is the bill that we are discussing from the workshop of social democracy, the second proposal was the parliamentary proposal from the workshop of the SPD, and the third proposal was the proposal from the workshop of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. In the constitutional-legal committee, it was that the constitutional-legal committee decided to take Parliament's Press 111 as the basis for the discussion and further discussion, so further negotiations will continue on the ground plan of the national referendum law from the social democracy workshop. It is also important to point out and recall that this government, the minority government of the YES movement and social democracy, has the aim in the Government's programming declaration to approve, during its term of office, the regulation of the national referendum law. This means that this programme objective also has the support of coalition parties. [[17.10 hours]] The Act on a National referendum, as has been discussed in the light of the original proposal of the Social Democrats, has made a number of changes. The aim is to find consensus in the strength of 120 votes of Members and Members to promote constitutional change. You know that we do not only need 120 votes of Members and Members for constitutional change, but we also need agreement with the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Let me now remind you of the fundamental points of the bill that we are discussing at the moment, in the form he recommended for further discussion and approval of the constitutionally-legal committee. This came from the previous recommendation of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. So now, in terms of these amendments and recommendations, a summary of what we are discussing in the draft law on the national referendum, as amended by these recommendations and those amendments. One. The law, the Constitution and the national referendum are therefore being implemented. This means that the people, a group of citizens under certain conditions, have the opportunity to call for a referendum in the future. The current number of citizens and citizens who have to sign for a referendum is 450 000, based on the amendments and the agreement of the political parties that are heading towards the 120 votes of Members and Members. Four hundred and fifty thousand may seem too much. I would just remind you that the original proposal even counted on 800,000 votes. That means it's a compromise solution. And as for the number of 450,000 votes, this number is based on the fact that, here, I would say, alas, we have tried in recent years that, through a petition, which is a similar instrument, citizens and citizens are able to collect such a number of signatures when it comes to a matter that is socially perceived. I will remind you that such a number of signatures were collected by citizens and citizens and were able to collect as part of a serious crime and subsequent collection of signatures by citizens and citizens for reducing the criminal liability of children after the violent crime and the victims were also a minor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the Member have the opportunity to introduce us to the conclusions of the committee and to the arguments of the appellants. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u4	Another of the principles I would like to recall is that citizens and citizens of the Czech Republic would therefore be given the opportunity to vote in favour or against on the basis of the question put forward, namely yes or no. The amendment that took place during the debate by the Chamber of Deputies against the original proposal is important. The current text, as discussed at second reading and possibly released for further reading, envisages that every question - every question that will be asked and, therefore, against which the number of signatures I have mentioned will be collected - will be subject to review by the Constitutional Court. Everyone. This means that it is a change against the original proposal, which envisaged that only on the basis of government steps can there be a test of constitutionality of the question if there are doubts. We have also come to the conclusion that it would not be rational for the entire 450 000 signatures to have to be collected by citizens for each question that they do not yet know is genuinely constitutional. That is why there is a special condition that will suffice - 50,000 votes collected to deal with the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court and, consequently, citizens and citizens can continue to collect these signatures and initiate a national referendum. The other thing I want to mention in relation to the original proposal and which, in turn, is essential for achieving a constitutional majority in the House are questions that we can even hold a referendum on, that is, which we can vote on. What is important is that there is a change that any amendment to the Constitution and not only the Constitution but also the Charter of Fundamental Rights of Freedoms and other constitutional laws, that is, constitutional order, should be excluded from the possible question within the referendum. I would like to point out here that, on the basis of this change, it would not be possible to vote on such matters as the existence, absence of the Senate or other constitutional bodies in the future. So that's one change towards constitutional agreement and most in the House. The second change is the question of international treaties. You know, in the context of a national referendum, some political parties have spoken in the past about the possibility of citizens to decide to withdraw from international organisations or other obligations of an international nature, such as withdrawal from the European Union or withdrawal from NATO. Therefore, the important thing for you and for the second reading is that the current form does not count on either of these options, which means that our referendum in the Czech Republic would exclude such a possibility of voting. In the Constitution or in the Constitutional Act on a National referendum, we help each other by referring to the impossibility of voting citizens and citizens on international treaties and obligations under Art. 10a Constitution. That's another major change. Finally, I would like to mention the last amendment, because the original parliamentary proposal of the Social Democratic Club was also very strict in terms of the binding nature and validity of the referendum. Here again, in the discussion with the other political parties, Members and Members, we have come to the conclusion that a referendum would be valid if at least 25 per cent of the eligible voters were involved and, at the same time, the majority of such votes would be in favour. I note that this is still a very high number of votes that, say, a referendum issue would have to be obtained. Here, too, we believe that we have maintained here that the validity and binding nature of the referendum should be judged strictly, on the other hand, so that what happens in other countries does not happen to us, that although there will be a referendum, it will never be valid, or even - although it is valid here, it is not binding. So even by reducing this originally more strictly set condition to the state that I have described, we have again come close to having 120 Members for this constitutional change. I note that by inspiration from this rule and perhaps a better understanding of citizens and citizens, as a referendum would be valid and binding, as would be considered, we can recall the practice of local referendums, which, say, are already widely used in the case of municipalities, and therefore, in terms of validity and commitment, we have inspired ourselves by a similar rule, as citizens and citizens already know it in the context of local referendums. Of course, our aim is also to use what works and to move it to a higher level, in this case, to a national referendum. [[17.20 hours]] Dear Members, it is certainly every constitutional change that is under discussion that deserves the full attention of Members and Members, because the Constitution is our highest law, and it is also true that most political parties sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, in their electoral programmes to citizens and citizens of the Czech Republic, their voters and voters, this possibility, that is to say, the fulfilment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic on the possibility of voting in a national referendum, to ask questions and, in terms of their binding nature, to rely on the House and governments and politicians on its direct implementation, so this has been long foreseen by the Constitution and a number of political parties promised for a long time. As regards the changes that I have described to you and which have taken place within the constitutionally-legal committee, namely its amendment, as well as the recommendations of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, all of these changes seek to respect the fact that our country and its Constitution are based on parliamentary democracy. On the other hand, our parliamentary democracy is now, let us say, at local level, and we therefore also wish to be national, should and should enable citizens and citizens to participate directly in public matters. This is the main goal we have if we are seeking constitutional agreement, the 120 votes we need. We want to allow citizens and citizens of the Czech Republic not only in elections to the Chamber of Deputies or to the Senate, but also through referendums, national referendums, to participate directly in public matters on selected issues that they choose and ask. That's the target we're tracking. I hope that, as part of the second reading discussion, as the petitioner and the plaintiff, because we too have to make big compromises, big compromises, and constitutional change can be said that almost always everyone has their own citizen's inner opinion, so we are led by the efforts of the plaintiffs to reach agreement and that citizens and citizens in the Czech Republic can actually ask questions, have answers to them, obtain the necessary majority, and then call the House or Government for implementation. I therefore wish you well within the framework of the debate. And I am just saying that, of course, in the debate, I will also speak as Chair of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution to inform you in more detail about the resolutions adopted by the Permanent Commission on the Constitution. Finally, I think that politically speaking for the plaintiffs, I must mention those political parties that seek the constitutional majority, and so it is the YES movement, it is social democracy, it is the pirate party, it is the SPD and it is the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. These are political parties seeking to find a constitutional majority and citizens and citizens of this country to vote in referendums and to decide directly on public matters they want to allow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u5	Thank you, Mrs Valachová, who spoke for the plaintiff. As I was saying, this matter was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's rapporteur is Mr Jakub Michálek. I ask the rapporteur to inform us of the committee's discussion. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u6	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, you have received information on the discussions in the Constitutional Legal Committee in press 111/3. What is essential is that the constitutionally-legal committee recommended that the bill be approved and also recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal, as amended by the comprehensive amendment, which is presented directly in the press. The proposal is based on a broad agreement between several bodies, which was subsequently discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Constitutional Legal Committee also recommended under the Roman three that the Chamber of Deputies vote at the beginning of the detailed debate at second reading that this comprehensive amendment be taken as the basis for further consideration of the draft constitutional law, and that I should report on the results of this proposal. So I would recommend that, in the context of a detailed debate at the beginning, we vote precisely on the fact that the amendment, the comprehensive amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee sent under press 111/3, was based on the discussion and the amendments were based on this proposal. It is to consider whether at this point we are prepared, say, to complete the draft law by means of amendments to the final form, because I know that there were some comments on the formulation of the various detailed parts, such as the need for signatures under the two different petitions under this constitutional law, so that it may be possible for the Chamber of Deputies to consider whether, following the approval of this debate as amended by the comprehensive amendment, to not interrupt the debate and not give room to other Members to formulate their amendments, if appropriate, following this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u7	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I'll introduce you to my apologies. Mrs Majerová Zahradníková from 17 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Eva Matyášová due to illness from 17.30 to 19 o'clock, Mr Václav Klaus from 17.30 for work reasons and apologizes to Mrs Helena Langšádlová for work reasons today between 17 and 19 o'clock. I am opening a general debate. The Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura will perform with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that, after a long time, the House's proposal for a referendum law has arrived on the House's agenda. It is the result of the long-term pressure of both my and the SPD movement. Unfortunately, we all know that the path to the adoption of this law is virtually impossible under the current composition of the House and the Senate. The Senate directly rejects any bill of referendum. And that's what we were told at a meeting with the Senate. Of course, some of the House parties, apart from the SPD, agreed only on a neutered version which does not, in principle, allow citizens to vote on the most important issues. It is obvious that even after so many years, politicians, both new and old, have not learned the lessons and the opportunity for citizens to make decisions about their affairs, are still blocked, although, surprisingly, today, it is by means of the referendum law. I must say that nothing has changed since President Masaryk fought in vain for a Swiss-type democracy. At that time and today, elite gangs in parliament felt the same way that the citizen's government does not belong to his country and belongs to party bosses. Of course, we don't agree with that in the SPD. Although the Czechoslovak Constitution envisaged a referendum, the people's right to vote was very limited. If the National Assembly rejected the Government's bill, the government could write a referendum, let it be approved by citizens. The right of citizens to vote directly on the election and dismissal of Members was given by the Constitution of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. I only mention this because, apart from the fact that direct democracy works in a huge part of the world, it is not a completely unknown phenomenon in the Czech countries. The referendum law applies virtually throughout the EU, with the exception of three countries. In addition to our Republic, it is Belgium and Cyprus. Both countries are terrified of a referendum on the division of the country among their national minorities. What frightens thirty years of Czech politics is also not a mystery. It's a government of the people. [[17.30 hours]] Among the demands of citizens in the revolutionary days after 17 November was direct democracy, both the referendum law and the direct choice and withdrawal of politicians and even the heads of state-owned enterprises. Of course, the power knob around Václav Havel wanted democracy the least of all. The aim was to transfer the power of one elite to another. So all promises in this direction were subsequently broken. The first person to disappear from the table was the direct election of the president, because there was a threat that Dubček would win, not Havel. All this is good to see, to be clear, why the referendum is not welcome. And when the maggots stomped him out of the country, then you have to write him so that it doesn't work in practice. This is essentially the so-called compromise proposal agreed by parties other than the SPD, and, of course, half of the other House parties do not want a referendum at all from the start, even any variant. As we know from the countries of the European Union, but also from countries such as Latin America and the US, referendums are mainly about important, fundamental things. In Europe, these were primarily international treaties, joining the European Union, leaving the European Union, signing the Treaty of Lisbon or the last Treaty with Canada. Indeed, so far, the only referendum in the Czech Republic has been about joining the European Union, without a concession to participate, in order to be sure to apply. Both constitutional lawyers and we lay people see that right here on the issue of fundamental international agreements concerning the sovereignty of the country is the will of the people the highest and only legitimate power to decide. Logically, this country still belongs to its citizens, and the Constitution clearly states that all power in our country belongs to the people. Unfortunately, most politicians have the exact opposite and clearly unconstitutional view that all power belongs to them and citizens are not allowed to decide on important matters. Our SPD movement is the only party in Parliament that promotes direct democracy, i.e. the real democracy. On the contrary, the Pirates, the KSČM, the ČSSD and the ANO movement have agreed on this ruthless, dysfunctional proposal, where people cannot vote on fundamental things at all, and the rest of the parties in Parliament, in the Chamber of Deputies, that is, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and ODS, even reject the referendum completely, basically reject any version. But I'll get to the details. Of course, I understand the rejection of democracy in elitist formations, such as the princely TOP 09, or the lobbyists' parties, like the ODS or the people's. But I am missing why the Social Democrats, YES and Pirates are trying to deny citizens the government in their country. All these guys look like sides to ordinary people, but the reality is, we see, different. Very absurd is the position of the pirát, who have come up with an amendment that has already reduced the already-cut and dysfunctional referendum proposal from the ČSSD pen even more. The pirát had a referendum in their electoral program, and here you can directly compare how the pirát are completely flagrant not only violating their program, which they promised their voters, but even promoting the exact opposite. Let me briefly quote from their website what the citizens promised and promised the pirát. So let's take this one step at a time. One. The pirates promised in elections and promised on the website a legislative initiative by citizens that would allow a petition to be drawn up with a bill, a proposal to deal with Parliament or a council, and if they fail to comply with the requirements within the legal deadline, they will decide the referendum. Another promise by the pirát on their website or what they promised is - a binding referendum at the level of the whole state, regions and municipalities. The citizens will decide on proposals for legislative initiative or on Parliament's fundamental proposals - in parentheses: amendments to the Constitution, international treaties, membership of international organisations, military bases, etc. End of parentheses. I stress that these international treaties are written there, which is, for example, membership of the European Union. Furthermore, the pirát promised and promised on their website a folk veto where, if citizens collect enough signatures under a petition demanding the repeal of an approved law or decree, this regulation must be approved or rejected in a referendum. I'll keep quoting. Pirates promised a direct choice of important political and party independent positions of legislation, executives, justice, state authorities, administrative councils and supervisory bodies. I'll keep quoting. The pirates promised the possibility of recalling high-ranking state officials on the basis of a petition with electoral signatures and a subsequent vote. For indirectly elected authorities, citizens have the right to decide on early elections on the basis of a petition. So that's what the pirát promised, and now they're suggesting the exact opposite. For amusement, allow me to quote a few selected points from the pirate text of the amendment, which means how the pirát have changed completely in two years in the House and suggest the exact opposite. So from your amendment, which is published and which I directly draw from: So, in the referendum, Pirates do not have to decide, for example, the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional order or international treaties. Further to the amendment of the Constitution and constitutional order. Furthermore, on the State budget and on matters involving interference in legislation or in the administration of taxes, charges or other similar transactions. Furthermore, the breach of obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic or on matters which would inevitably lead to the breach of these obligations. Again, I stress that this is the proposal of the pirát, which must not be decided in the referendum, they write. And I'm putting it against what they promised. Furthermore, according to their amendment, the membership of the Czech Republic in an international organisation or institution must not be voted on. Furthermore, according to the proposal of the Pirates, it must not be possible to vote on the designation of individual persons in office and on their withdrawal from office. Furthermore, in their amendment to the referendum, the pirát forbid the vote on individual rights and obligations, as well as the termination or acceptance of an international treaty pursuant to Article 10a of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. So the pirát have turned 180 degrees today, and they justify it by saying that citizens are not mature for democracy, that they need to be dosed gradually. This is, therefore, as if you promised to raise pensions by a thousand in the elections, and after the elections you would say: it will only increase by 10 crowns, because pensioners are not yet mature to raise pensions and they have to get used to it. The fact that someone does not want a referendum law because they simply do not want the government of citizens, I understand and respect such a political view. I understand that the Socialists and YES, who have clumsyly signed up for the referendum under our pressure, do not really want a functioning referendum, but the obvious lying and treachery of the pirát is literally out of breath. Ladies and gentlemen, last year a small seminar took place in the House on referendum laws and the participating experts on state law clearly agreed that the only constitutionally conformal proposal is the SPD proposal, precisely because it does not restrict the right of a citizen to exercise power directly, as the Czech Constitution already allows it. They mentioned, of course, examples from Europe, where, of course, the right to vote on international conventions is not limited, it is not a right, but, on the contrary, citizens have to vote on such commitments, which somehow interfere with their country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the highest right to decide the earth is the one to whom it belongs. It is equally logical that, for example, the person who pays them and not just the person who spends them should have the right to decide on money. Here, too, we have documented statistics from the US and Europe, where it is clear that where citizens have a right in referendums or even a duty to decide on the amount of taxes, taxes are lower on the one hand and, at the same time, there is greater satisfaction with the services that the state provides for those taxes than in countries where citizens do not have that option. The struggle between supposed and real elites against democracy is endless, but allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to assure you that you will not stop the course of time. Direct democracy, i.e. the SPD agenda, paves the way for Europe and the whole world, and it is not really a question of whether it will prevail with us, but it is just a question of when. Ladies and gentlemen, shortly before the 30th anniversary of November's events, when people on the streets asked for direct democracy and referendums without exceptions, you have the opportunity to prove that you are actually applying for their legacy programme on November 17th. Or maybe the word game of democracy is just your political theater. [[17.40 hours]] Once again, I am amused by the pirate amendment, which essentially denies any possibility of voting. But, of course, it wouldn't be us in the SPD if we didn't give the other parties who betrayed their program to fix their position immediately. That is why, of course, I will present my amendment, which is already included in the system. And, of course, I hope that the pirát will scry their consciences and vote in favour of our SPD amendment, which once again introduces their promises back to what they promised the voters. Not what they're doing right now, that 180-degree turn. So let me briefly present my amendment to 2040, it is wider. And of course, because the parties - Pirates, YES, ČSSD and KSČM - agreed that the proposal to hold a referendum, as I looked into the system, needed 850 thousand signatures, and now here I hear 450. So it's an incredible number. So, of course, I'm going to make it easier for those parties who really mean it, for example, to the pirát, so I propose an amendment to replace this number with 100,000. And in case somebody finds that little, I have added another amendment - because we are alone here, the SPD movement, those who enforce the referendum law, the democratic version, the next amendment is 250,000. In order to give room to those who fear referendums, but still want it, you can either vote in favour of my amendment of 100,000 signatures or 250,000 signatures. Furthermore, of course, we want the majority of those who take part in the referendum to decide in the referendum. Which, again, this so-called compromise proposal puts some restrictions on it. So we want it to be as it was with the referendum when we joined the European Union. This is where you see the hypocrisy. When there was one single referendum in the history of the Czech Republic, one single national referendum, it was without a favor to make sure it was done. And now, actually, if we want to repeat the same referendum, for example, about membership of the European Union, there's a treaty there, and no one wants it here. It is the same citizen, only a few years older, and yet it is the same citizen who decided to join the European Union. So we want, and it is my next amendment, to simply make the simple majority that comes to the referendum. It's democratic. After all, one person can choose the President of the Czech Republic in direct elections if the others do not come. One person can choose the senator if the others don't come. Just a simple majority. Even Members can choose one person if others, hypothetically speaking, would not come. It's just a simple majority, there's no quorum for the election of a senator or a president. And all of a sudden, when it comes to referendums, that is, when it's not about those politicians electing those politicians at all costs to warm necks, they're already giving a high deal, so that citizens can't decide anything. And the pirát agree. And not to mention other parties, of course. They're even just playing theater to make it seem like a referendum isn't gonna work at all. And no interesting question will be voted on. So we want the simple over-the-half majority, as it was when we joined the European Union. That is why I am stressing again, I am surprised that the same people have advocated a referendum on EU accession, and now they are against the same referendum, or on another subject, being on the same terms. Of course, in my amendment, I am returning to your neutered version the possibility of voting on international treaties. Yes, we want citizens to be able to vote on our membership of the European Union or NATO. And why are you denying it to them? I don't get it. Whose land is this? And most importantly, you have let the citizens vote on joining the EU, and now you don't want to vote on the show? I don't understand. I think it's impertinence towards the citizens. You make fools of them. So this will be another amendment. And, of course, if it were anybody's problem, just as we see it with the Pirates and other parties that play only to promote democracy, so if there really was a problem that an over-half, pure majority should decide in a referendum, then I'm also giving room to these wannabe democrats. So today I have also tabled an amendment so that 10 per cent of the eligible voters will be a quorum, 20 per cent and 30 per cent more. So I'm giving four options to those who would like to pee. To exactly decloak it, to decloak all those who say and lie here, they lie to the outside that they want a functioning referendum. So, individually, we're going to vote, individually, about the favors. In order to show exactly who's right about the referendum, it's all inserted. Because I, when I was still going to those meetings of yours until you started arguing about the comedy yourself, the theater, the last time I saw it, was that the 35 percent could possibly be acceptable. That's why I put 30 percent in my one changeling, too, that's pretty close. But, of course, I'm saying that our proposal is that we want the simple over-half majority so that I don't get misdirected again. There's always somebody here, some young people, not young people, but some trolls, they always download videos, they edit them, and then they always pass around -- it doesn't matter, age doesn't matter, I don't know if he's young or old that guy, I don't really care, I don't want to touch anyone, so I don't get caught at my word. But what I'm saying is, some trolls always, God knows where they're coming from, always cut the video and manipulate the expression the way it suits anyone. So here we are presenting a complete series of changelings. Of course, we want a referendum on the same subject to take place at the earliest three years from the date of the announcement of the results of the vote in the previous referendum. This is also one of the amendments that I put in on behalf of the SPD. So there's a whole series of changelings. I think I've already introduced this place. And we deliberately structured it so, those amendments to your dysfunctional and undemocratic proposal, so that no one could really make excuses when the election campaign comes up and somebody would say that they wanted a referendum, so that we would note all the votes, go out, get all the photos, so that we could show it everywhere that this - and we have the political program that promised it on the web, and I've quoted it all here. And then we'll compare it all nicely, how who actually voted in this respect, how who wants a real democracy. And it's not on purpose or anything, I didn't say anything false. I even looked at the pirate amendment on the House's website to see if it really was there. Yes, it is, it is. So I looked at it on purpose because I didn't believe my eyes. It was sent to me by a colleague I was working with to prepare the files, and I said wait, send me the link, send me the link. Is it possible that the pirát have proposed an amendment that is 180 percent different from what they promised on their Internet? And it was really there. I said, well, that's really true. I mean, I thought all kinds of things, but this is really a piroueta par excellence. So thank you so much for your attention, and I hope there's a functional proposal coming through the House. And, of course, it is important for us in the SPD to leave the functional referendum proposal from the House. Because then we'll give the black Petr to the senát. And I'm telling you straight, I want to give the black Petr of the Senate. Because they look like they're needed, they look like they're democratic. And basically, we were all at those meetings when Mr Kubera, President of the Senate, said on behalf of other senators that the Senate does not actually want a referendum law. He's blocking the referendum bill, so it needs to be translated. He's blocking the referendum bill. I wonder what the Senate is for if it is blocking the will of the people and fulfilling the Constitution. That's basically unconstitutional. So I really can't agree with this. So thank you for your attention and we will look into this referendum law in detail and we will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u9	Thank you. The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal shall act with priority. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to your apologies. President Vít Rakušan from 17.45 to 21:00 today due to the hearing and Mr Václav Votava today from 17.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, honourable Members, honourable Members, I did not expect to speak after such a speech, but I nevertheless signed up. I would, of course, like to thank you for presenting the pirate program here. A distinction should be made between the long-term programme and the electoral programme. The electoral agenda for these elections clearly stated that - where I have it, sorry - we will support the introduction of elements of direct democracy, the direct choice and revocability of mayors, the national referendum, the civil veto, the incompatibility of full-time functions. Thus the incompatibility of full-time functions has already gone away in some form. As far as the civil veto is concerned, the proposal is not yet tabled, that is true, because we are simply blocked in this meeting by discussing this press and seeking some consensus. I would like to say that it was not the intention of being elected by the President of the Chamber of Deputies so that we can repeat our programme here indefinitely, but so that we can at least make some of it work. So the aim of this proposal is not to push our agenda completely, because it is obviously impossible, because we simply control only 22 mandates, not 120, but the aim is to find a consensus that can be worked with and that can be enforced during this parliamentary term. I would like to thank very much Mrs Válková, for which I was the first to come after the proposal for a national referendum in the system, and I compared their programme and our programme and we found some basic agreement, which was then further worked on. As has been said here, with regard to the legislative initiative, the folk veto, the appeal or, for example, the approval of amendments to the Constitution, these are all the proposals that have been made during this discussion of the draft law on the national referendum, but these are other instruments that need to be presented and discussed separately. Of course, I will be very happy for such proposals, whether it is the legislative initiative of the citizens, so that he can submit a law which the House would then have to deal with, or whether it is a folk veto, i.e. the possibility of vetoing a bill to the people. These are all, of course, that would certainly make sense, but they cannot be part of the draft law on a general referendum, especially when some parties that control the House, truth, more mandates, demand that there be no Constitution, that there be no international treaties, that there are no fundamental rights and freedoms. [[Nesroz.]] After all, I think that the issues of fundamental rights and freedoms should not even be a question of referendum in general, because they are the foundations of our democratic state after all. So much for that in general. Now to the amendment that is loaded there, which is House document 2345. This document is very similar to the proposal finally approved by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and, as I understand, it was proposed as a starting document, so I would then probably wait for the start of the detailed debate to know what I should be proposing amendments for. Of course, this bill, as it was submitted, is based on some criteria from us. We would imagine that citizens would also be able to vote on international treaties. We need to stop here, because the proposal, the joint one, as it is loaded, allows us to vote on international treaties, only not all of them, except those where the Czech Republic transfers some rights elsewhere, that is to say, international agreements under Article 10a. These are excluded, but of course it is possible to vote on other international treaties, so - now I can't think of - maybe some common taxation or some aviation issues could be voted on, but we will certainly find some international agreements that would be interesting. Then I will stop by the court, as the signatures were finally arranged, to arrange the number of votes needed to make the matter binding. It was agreed that instead of having the number of signatures to be collected, it was disproportionately high, over 8,000, so it managed to reduce it to 400 thousand, respectively. 450,000 in the deal, and that's a realistic number. [[800]] It must be said that petitions with so much, because they have indeed been able to collect extra, are in preparation both the draft law that will allow electronic collection of petitions, so there is actually now a proposal in legislative preparation for general election management, where it is possible to collect petitions in the electronic system, so I believe that this number will then be much better accessible. But, of course, this proposal came into the legislative process only after we tabled our proposal, or what came up with this agreement in the form of a national referendum law, but it is as if we are assuming that this constitutional bill will still be an implementing law, which will then allow the collection of signatures for petitions electronically, which I think will very well allow us to collect the 450 thousand signatures, but of course, we personally do not defend ourselves with any proposals to reduce the number. Then we'll see that in the final vote. Then I would stop at the second point, and that is the binding nature when the referendum will be binding. Because we don't want a referendum that seems to vote, and then we don't know what's going to happen next. We do not want an indicative referendum when we can, the government can ask us citizens how we imagine it, and then somehow it will turn out, and then they will argue whether it was binding or not and whether it has to be done or not, how it is happening in Britain. We want a referendum that will indeed bind the government and bind Parliament to act according to it. And according to this, there are also time limits for commitment, when the government is simply obliged to act according to the results, and Parliament cannot do anything against the results, for a clear period of time. It's about commitment. And now for the commitment to the outcome of the vote. I think that the compromise that has succeeded in agreeing that there will be no campaigns to discourage people from going to vote, or that there will not be the worst possible cases where the referendum will become valid and binding, because those who have opposed the result have come and voted against, but because they have come, they have been able to fulfil the treaty, so we have managed to prevent it, and I consider it a very good compromise. So 25 percent of the citizens are proposed to come and vote in favour, and that is clearly achievable. If you look at how many citizens voted in favour of each presidential candidate in the second round or how many votes are voted in parliamentary elections, that is clearly the number that is attainable and therefore possible. Moreover, there is a provision that the votes will take place together with the elections, so there is no problem with high participation. It may be useful here to recall that we have already managed to do something for direct democracy here in the House and that he has gone through an amendment that has enabled referendums at municipal and regional level to take place together with European and other elections, and this has already been used. So much for the previous and actually the presentation of the compromise proposal. Of course, it would be nice for us if citizens could also vote on constitutional changes, on fundamentals and the like. But there's no match for that. And, of course, when you vote on a simple law or some simple thing and when you vote on a constitutional matter, on a fundamental matter, there should also be a fundamental consensus. This means that there should be different criteria for how many voters come, how many voters say yes, because there is no way that we can decide on such fundamental things as our membership of international organizations by a narrow majority, where it may also decide whether or not it rained that day, where society is to go. In such cases, I think it is better to understand what the majority are, but not to take place and to follow up with further explanation and decision-making, or some other, better prepared and better informed referendum, where a fundamental consensus is reached or, perhaps, where the question will be put differently, so that a fundamental consensus can arise. So much for constitutional matters. Of course, I welcome proposals for a legislative initiative or a folk veto. What I have noted during these discussions about the law on the national general referendum, for some parties who do not support the proposal for a general referendum, perhaps even the folk veto or the legislative initiative would be acceptable, so we will see, perhaps, such a proposal will appear. Thank you. I think that this proposal is a good compromise, and I assume that it will be chosen at the beginning of a detailed debate as the basis and then we will make amendments to it. Perhaps I would just ask that we do not propose an increase of the kvora to 30 percent when it is agreed 25 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura will still use his priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u12	I have heard here, ladies and gentlemen, from the Vice-President of the House for pirát Vojtěch Pikal through the President's excuse that it was said to be a compromise proposal. I don't think so, because the proposal you put in was inserted in 28. 2. 2019 under number 245, but after you were added another amendment, another modification, from Mrs Válková. So the guarantor of this press for the YES movement, Mrs Helena Válková, is still 14. 4., two months after the introduction of your proposal, she put in her proposal, so don't say it was a compromise when the ANO movement itself had put in its proposal two months later. You're just making excuses! So I repeat it again, the pirát just betrayed the program. It is not a compromise proposal, because if there was a compromise, the YES movement has 78 Members here, and we all know that without their votes, constitutional change certainly cannot pass here. There is simply a proposal put in, where the pirát, on the one hand, promise that they want to, they have promised voters, they have deceived voters, they want binding referendums in which citizens decide on proposals such as amendments to the Constitution, international treaties, membership in international organisations, and in fact you have put in there on behalf of the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, there is a proposal that prohibits voting in a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution and constitutional order forbids citizens to vote on the membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations, and I will be specific, for example in the European Union or NATO. And now you were making excuses here through Mr President that it was supposed to be a compromise proposal. So obviously he wasn't, because you put him in there on behalf of you, the so-called compromise, 28. 2. under the number 2345, but under the number of Amendment 2596 there is entered 14. 4. 2019 proposal by Mrs Válková, the largest parliamentary club, guarantor of this press for the YES movement. So what are you saying here, but what are you saying through Mr President about compromise? That it's a compromise proposal? It's not. You just betrayed the program, but the fact that, of course, I'm saying again, at least you promised verbally, then you failed, you turned around. Of course, for me, it is much worse who, as if in the election campaign, for example, the ANO and the ČSSD movement said that they wanted a referendum, and then they basically killed it completely as if it were a dysfunctional variant. From this point of view, I appreciate the ODS, because the ODS has said from the outset that it does not want a referendum. That he would be completely against the referendum. The referendum also rejects KDU-ČSL, STAN, rejects it also TOP 09, TOP 09 says it also plainly. Okay. Although I disagree, it is fair that ODS and Mr Kalousek from the top usually call you fair and square, we do not want a referendum. The people's people said it as if something, but then they also leaned to the fact that they don't want anything anymore, no referendum, and so did STAN. Okay. It's fair. You just have your constituents, you admit it at the very beginning, that it's an elite government, what you're just saying you don't want to allow a referendum. Okay. There is certainly a group of voters here in the Czech Republic that does not want a referendum, and that is fine. But what I really don't like is when someone has proven these parameters on the web, then they suggest the exact opposite and inserts them into the system, then they say it's a compromise, but two months later, there's also an actual proposal from Professor Válková, who obviously hasn't been integrated into your compromise, or it's an additional compromise, it's simply a galimatyás. So that's all I wanted to say. And I would like to call again, because I would very much like the pirát to return to the campaign vows they promised on the web, and they have the opportunity to vote in favour of our amendments that the SPD has put in there, and I think it will be okay, because it will come back again, but I doubt that will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u13	We are now in the following situation with the order of the speakers. First of all, Mr Marek Benda will speak with a point of fact, then President Michálek is given priority, Mrs Valachová has also applied, but at this stage of the hearing, the appellant does not have the right of priority, so I take it as an application for a factual remark. Mr Benda, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u14	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to what Vice-President Okamura said. Not even in the second performance, where he commended us, but in the first performance, where, in my opinion, he misinterpreted the Constitution, which has been presented here for about 15 years by Vice-President Filip, and I would very much ask that we not approach it. The Constitution does not expect a referendum to be set. The Constitution clearly states, and unfortunately, it was said in the speech of Vice-President Okamura, the Constitution clearly states that the Constitutional Law can determine when the people exercise state power directly. He can fix it. It can thus set out in a one-time manner, as has already happened once in the history of the Czech Republic to a referendum on access to the European Union, or so it can lay down in general, as the appellants try to enforce. I would just like to ask that one who opposes the general referendum is not against the Czech Constitution. I've been there to make the Constitution. We deliberately wrote it like this, and he's been trying to fool us like this for about 15 years now, Vice-President Filip, that it's mandatory. It's not mandatory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u15	Thank you. Mrs Valachová's point of fact, after which was Mrs Válková's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u16	I'll just keep it short. I must respond to the debate and through you in particular to Mr Tomio Okamura. I understand, of course, that the referendum is a matter of the heart of the SPD. On the other hand, let's tell each other the truth here. As part of my opening speech, I pointed out that it wasn't just about having 120 votes in the House, but we still need the Senate's approval. This means, of course, any compromise that we are trying to make, which we are trying to do, so that citizens and citizens can really start using the referendum. This may not be the broadest referendum, but it will definitely be a functional referendum and we believe that, after people actually have the opportunity to speak directly on public matters, we will gradually expand these possibilities later. But again, we need 120 votes here, and we also need the Senate's approval. Otherwise, people won't have anything, which I suppose the SPD doesn't want either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u17	Thank you. Mrs Válková and Mr Okamura came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Unfortunately, I don't have a preferential right, so at least a factual remark when I'm logged in. What I'm hearing here, I'd like to set something right, too. I think that not only does the SPD advocate, as the MP here said, a national referendum as a matter of heart. We have this in the programme and we also want a national referendum, although it is not here in the Constitutional Law, clearly, as Mr Benda has said by your means, it has to, but the constitutional law says that it can determine when the people exercise state power directly. And we think it's time for that to happen. But fast. The referendum, as proposed, Mr Okamura, by you, Mr President, is functional and would be functional. If you take the president's vote in the first round was about five million eligible voters, five and a half million in the second round, and the over-half majority then elected him, more than two and a half million, I suspect, this is built so that out of the eight million eligible voters would have to come and essentially vote for about four million, I say roughly the numbers, and of them the over-half majority, the minimum, if she had expressed her approval, it would have been more than two million. So, when we elected the President and were able to do so in a direct choice, why can't we express ourselves directly in a decision under a national referendum? And the last sentence, really the last. It is forgotten that the Czech Republic is part of a certain international community. The European Union, the Council of Europe, and that is why we exclude some issues from the possibility of holding a national referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u19	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Okamura, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I was very unpleasantly surprised to hear what the Chair of the Committee for the Institute of Kateřina Valachová from the ČSSD said here. So you don't have any information at all? We were at the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies dinner together. The President of the House of Vondráček, Vice-President of the Chamber of Vojtěch Pikal, was there as well, I was there and others. For example, Mr Kubera and others were there for the other side. Well, frankly, I don't even know those names, those Vice-Presidents of the Senate, because I don't see them very much anywhere, so I'm sorry I can't name any more, but they were Vice-Presidents of the Senate. And there was clearly on my question before the witnesses, there were also the chancellors, there was also the chancellor Morávek at the dinner and another, on my direct question, whether the Senate would ever let any version of the referendum law pass, whatever I said, Mr Kubera said there: No. I'm telling you straight, the Senate won't let any version of the referendum pass! And I said who was at the dinner, which I don't know who was here from the O.R., I think maybe no one else, that it was the House and Senate leadership, or if there was a Vice-President there, I don't know - so I asked: will you tell the journalists who are waiting outside? [[Nesroz.]] And Prime Minister Kubera said that he didn't, that he didn't want to tell the press. We remember that very well. So what are you talking about, a compromise option? What do you say the Senate wants when they tell us they don't want it? So it's not true what you're saying. The second thing is that I was startled by what Vice-President Pikal said here. He said that the pirát do not actually want to vote on international treaties, that is, membership of the EU or NATO, because it is not possible for a narrow majority to decide on membership of such organisations. For example, a tight majority. Well, I made a note of that, that sentence, that's a pearl. This seems to be the view of the pirát of democracy. So not a referendum, because somebody could make some kind of tight majority, God knows what it is. This is unbelievable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u21	Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact, then Mr Navrkal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u22	As chair of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the Constitution, of course, I must express to the House the fundamental indignation that I was not at this dinner, of course, when there were constitutional changes. I hope I'll be invited next time. We are, of course, discussing the compromise in terms of what might have a chance of success in both chambers at the official meetings of the Permanent Commissions for the Constitution of the two Chambers of Parliament, the Senate and the Houses, which, of course, all members know. That the Senate takes the form of a referendum as prepared by the Chamber of Deputies and seeks 120-headed support, negatively, is true. On the other hand, we have a clear conscience, for example from the point of view of constitutional changes, that is to say, the referendum does not allow changes in constitutional order at the moment. If the Senate still does not allow citizens and citizens of the Czech Republic to use the referendum, it is his responsibility, but we have a clear conscience. I think we've done a lot of work, the compromise is consistent with the compromise. I said at the beginning that none of the political parties are 100% satisfied. What is essential, however, is an honest effort to enable people to participate directly in public matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u23	Thank you. Mr. Navrkal, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u24	Thank you. I would only like to respond through the President to the words of Tomio Okamura. The point is, there should be different standards here for taking decisions. That is also the case here in the Chamber of Deputies, for example, when we decide on changes in constitutional order as we do now, that we simply have to accept it here by a larger majority than it is over-half. I don't understand why you're so surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u25	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President Okamura here quoted from our long-term programme, which he expressed as our programme with which we went into the elections. But we went to the election program because our long-term program is decades ahead. And we realize that we cannot enforce everything within the parliamentary term. That is why we have promised in this electoral programme that we will support the introduction of elements of direct democracy, such as a national referendum. We promised we'd support it, that it would happen. It's not like we're gonna talk about this here for the next four years. You sat here for four years in the last parliamentary term through the President, you had the opportunity to enforce it, but now you're just saying, "We, us, us, us." We want it this way with our 22 votes, or maybe less votes now. But we need a constitutional majority to approve it. Otherwise, it always ends with just talking. And we're not gonna be here for the next four years to talk here for eight years about promising a referendum. No. We went into this with the fact that we're going to secure the referendum in this parliamentary term, in the form that it doesn't lead to some kind of disaster for people to try it out because we're growing democracy here. We've had 30 years since the Communist regime ended here, and we can't expect this democracy to stand up here all of a sudden. So if you want a referendum, you have to discuss it. And we acted, we have a proposal of multiple parties, of course there were various concessions, something went through, something went wrong. And you must convince the elected representatives of the citizens, which you have not yet succeeded, because by these speeches you contribute only to the fact that the time to discuss this proposal is running out and it will be postponed for another day, so it will be accepted later. You've accused us of voting here, or supporting us, betraying our program, pushing for 450,000 signatures. Well, how did it come about? That wasn't our request. The original proposal had 850 thousand signatures. And that was the demand of social democracy, which told us that if there were less than 450,000 signatures, they wouldn't support it. And what does that mean for a normal person? Well, there won't be a referendum in this parliamentary term. If we hadn't agreed to this request, there was no referendum. We'd be dragging it around for years and years. We've done our best to make sure that the result is that we're actually working something out here in the last four years. It's just a gradual process. Of course, we started by not having all of the international treaties, there will be international treaties, such as ACTA and so on. There will be no constitutional changes, there will be no international organisations, like the European Union. But it's got to start somewhere. It's a gradual process, people learn to be able to navigate that democracy. And I'm sure you know that through the President. When you wanted to be a successful businessman, it didn't start because you built a huge building with turrets and suddenly started a big business in hundreds of millions. You just started from scratch with some small agency and gradually building it, learning new things. And that's how you built it, and it took you years and years to get to the fact that you have that house with the turrets. [[Fun in the hall.]] And so is it here in the Chamber of Deputies. We have come to an outcome that is based on the consensus of many political parties. The consensus is contained in the comprehensive amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which was presented in press 111/3. And this is a proposal that I think is viable, which can be supported in the Chamber of Deputies. If he gets support in the Senate, that's the political responsibility of the senators. It is possible that the Senate will reduce it even further, but I think we should send a variant to the Senate that we stand up for. Maybe the Senate will give it back to us, and we'll discuss what we're going to do in this parliamentary term. I would like, at least in some narrower form, to approve a viable referendum during this parliamentary term. And I have one last question through the President to my colleague Okamura. I wanted to ask, how many referendums have we had in the SPD so far? Could you introduce us to the answer to that question? We'd love to learn. We do it sometimes, the referendums, in the pirate party. [[Laughter from the Pirates' benches]] It's not always easy, but we have practical experience. The Pirate Party is ten years old, and I can assure you that it is far from perfect and that we still have much to learn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u27	Thank you. President Okamura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u28	Well, I'd like to thank President Michálek for the performance. A material act, but it doesn't change the fact that we're holding the program, that the Senate said he didn't want a referendum bill anyway, so there's no need in that regard... And if compromises, you know that there are compromises and compromises. You can't compromise with a crook, with a thief. That's not what I'm saying in this case, but I'm saying in life. But you can compromise on the decent things that are within the limits of some compromise that is acceptable. And all I'm saying politically is that I find your compromises in quotes beyond what you promised the voters. Because there really is a big difference when you promise that they can vote on membership of the European Union, and suddenly you say that they can't, that they can't vote on it. That makes a big difference to me, but it's my political perspective, you have a different one. [[18.20 hours]] As far as the referendum is concerned, I wanted to assure you that in the SPD, not only the President but also all the members of the Bureau are directly elected by a member base, so in itself it is a direct choice, and they are also revocable. [[are:]] So look at our statutes, it's also so right that you have it too, it's delicious. And since there are a lot of us in the SPD, the way it works is that we can't rent an O.R. for all of our members, God knows if such an O.R. doesn't exist for thousands of members, the way it works is that, in a secret choice, the regional membership conference delegates are delegated to the national conference, in a secret choice, and then the elected chairman is the direct choice. So that's how it is with us. I think it's okay like this. Or members of the Bureau. You're right, unlike you, like your... They laugh here at the pirát, so I don't know what's funny now, when, for example, your representative, the pirate representative in Prague 2, Mr.Němec, accused Mrs. Krausová, former president of the pirate club at the Prague City Hall, two weeks ago, of manipulating a tender for the management of the Municipal House in Prague. I don't think that's funny. You laughed. Did you laugh at that? Or what exactly were you supposed to be laughing at? I think I hope the police are already investigating, because pirates, you've accused each other, your pirate deputy, that another pirate is manipulating a tender for the Municipal House. And I don't want to go any further, because I appreciate Mr. Michálek's material performance. So it doesn't seem funny to me, and if, of course, you have any opinions that the direct election of the President or the Bureau seems wrong to you, then I'm going to compare it with what we're learning here now about what's going on with you again. And I think it's every party's business, you're definitely gonna deal with it, just like we're gonna deal with our stuff, and I think we can get this debate back to the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Lubomír Španěl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must confess that the laughter on the part of the Pirates also offends me, because I have already been elected Vice-President twice in the South Moravian Region, and I am not aware that I would manipulate it in any way, but I have just been elected member base. I really don't know what's funny about that. Furthermore, I wanted to say that Tomio Okamura spoke of direct democracy and elements of direct democracy at a time when it was a dirty word. And I'm sorry, you guys have been dragging a duck in the garden, so at least don't mock what we've been promoting here for a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u31	Thank you. Mr Martínek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u32	I do not want to reduce myself to the SPD Members' meetings, but I would just like to explain to them, in substance, what direct democracy means. Direct means that it is chosen directly by members, not by elected delegates. The elected delegates, in your opinion, and the President's election before the introduction of a direct election was therefore a direct democracy when elected delegates as the Chamber of Deputies voted for them? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u33	Thank you. Other factual points - Mr Bláha, Mr Navrkal and Mr Okamura, maybe they are applying with priority rights, let us make this clear. Mr Bláha has a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u34	Dear colleagues, I'd just like to ask you if it were possible that we would stop measuring our muscles here, to say it politely or to the authorities, and let's get to the point. Because if we really want to move on, we should talk about what we're talking about here, not about who's planted or planted, who's got a better or worse program, or who might have a bigger halo around his head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u35	Thank you. Mr Navrkal with a point of fact - withdraws, Vice-President Tomio Okamura - has also made a point of fact, so it is Mr Dominik Feri's turn in the general debate, Mrs Jarošová will prepare herself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I never thought I'd play the same gate with Vice-President Okamura, but time ripped from the curtain and we actually meet here and criticize this proposal. I think it's wrong, but for very different reasons than Vice-President Okamura. I think it's wrong because it's going in the wrong direction and it's on very unconvincing arguments. And the most crucial thing that has been said here repeatedly by President Valachová, the appellant, is what has already been imposed here, namely a kind of alleged legislative debt. If the Constitution in Article 2 in paragraph 2 said that the Constitutional Law states when the people exercise state power directly, that would indeed be a legislative debt. But in the current form, when it can, when it is only optional, it is not a legislative debt. And with this to approach and use this as a supporting argument and the main guide line, I think the will of the then constitutionalist is inadequate. However, in order not to just criticize the proposal, because the numerous negotiations, whether in the Constitutional Legal Committee or in the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, I have to thank all those concerned for doing much work on the proposal. When I read the Steno Protocols from the first reading, because I do it in most of the proposals, the most critical things have been corrected, namely the subject of the referendum on which it can be held. At first reading, I criticized, for example, that the referendum in the form that was discussed in the SPD proposal, that the state budget or taxes and fees could be approved, which is also regulated in the Bulgarian constitutional regulation, that is, Bulgaria should, and in our country it would just work, which I find absolutely absurd. The same question, whether they can pass legislation, laws, constitutional laws, I'm glad it came out. As well as deciding on individual rights and obligations. That's not supposed to be there either. I'm a little sorry that social democracy has backed out of 850 grand. We, who reject the referendum on a flat-rate basis as a whole, liked the 850 more than 450, but better than nothing. It is also good that it will not be possible to abolish the Senate by referendum. Vice-President Okamura was suggestively asking what the Senate is really for. What's it for? Exactly to prevent the adoption of such proposals, the referendum itself. And the fact that a referendum will not pass in any form of the Senate is simply a fact is that there is nothing that can be done. And I doubt that the situation after the 2020 elections would be dramatically different, and suddenly the referendum would open the door and be approved. All the time we've been hearing all these three prints, or at least I've been feeling the subtext of it as if it were said that the only right, quality, good and cleanest form of democracy is that democracy is direct, that democracy is representative, that democracy is representative, as if it were just something else missing. And in this, I'm going to follow up on Vice-President Okamura, who mentioned President Masaryk here. To paraphrase him. Democrats make democracy, better democracy makes better democrats, not direct democrats. And that is why I think we should reject this proposal. I am making this motion for rejection, and I will repeat it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u37	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, with a factual point - she withdraws a factual point, so it is her turn in the debate, Mrs Jarošová, and Mrs Válková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u38	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think we all agree here that the referendum is the highest example of democracy and that it is therefore most desirable that it be finally included in our legal order. The SPD movement has repeatedly proposed the Act on a general referendum during the previous parliamentary term and the parties across the political spectrum have repeatedly rejected it. Our politicians simply did not find the courage to fill this point of the Constitution and dedicate it to our citizens. [[18.30 hours]] Until today, we are discussing a referendum proposal. Not the proposal from the SPD, of course, but the proposal from Members of Social Democracy. But is this a referendum? Or is it merely a downside to nothing that is subject to conditions that make the exercise of direct democracy completely impossible? Their determination of the number of citizens to submit the original proposal of 850 thousand signatures is clear evidence only of the formal concept of the draft constitutional law on national referendum and the rejection of direct democracy in practice. The consequence of the conditions in such a referendum law is that it cannot be implemented in practice. They just made the constitutional law completely useless, only they have only been fulfilled. In June 2003, a single national referendum took place in the history of the Czech Republic on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. A special ad hoc constitutional law was then passed for this referendum and was thus voted on internal affairs and foreign policy of the state. So it would be a fundamental denial of the principles of direct democracy if it were not for the citizens of the Czech Republic to vote on these issues in a national referendum. I take it they could use it back then, it's not their place today. So far, my fellow Members, you have not found the courage to support the SPD's proposal and have sent a clear message to our citizens that you do not trust them. I think that if the voter's vote is good enough to put us in these benches, it must be just as good to decide whether to stay or leave any institution. A citizen must have the right and the opportunity to make decisions on all issues other than human rights issues, including those relating to our membership of NATO-type international institutions or the European Union. And I can't help it, dear citizens, but they're afraid of your voice. It's quite common for people to be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u39	So I wish you a good evening and now another one in the general debate is Mrs Helena Válková, who will be prepared by Mr Marek Benda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, a lot has been said here, so I will just be glossing and adding to what I think has been said here either too briefly or perhaps not quite clearly. First of all. I have already said in my first speech that this proposal is very functional when we realise that it will be decided here on the basis of a national referendum on issues where citizens have to say their will to decide, and that will must be confirmed by the number of voters who will say it. This means that we are not in favour of dealing carelessly with such an institute as the national referendum, and that national referendums can be held, which would be binding in its outcome on issues which are marginal in nature or are things that can be handled very well - and, as we know, today is very easy - to influence. This is therefore a very important decision to set up a quorum that will already be high enough for us to conclude that the citizens of the Czech Republic really want to take a decision. I set a specific example - you know, we talked about it very emotionally in the past, many of us were unconvincable to one side or the other - voting about whether or not to, I'm gonna simplify it, smoke it in restaurants. I'm saying, I'm simplifying it a little bit. I think we've all seen situations where we've wasted too much time, arguments, because both sides have somehow buried themselves in their claims by not allowing counter-arguments anymore. The result was, therefore, that we have voted a ban on smoking in restaurants, and there are still a number of opponents of the prohibition on believing that it would be better and that it expresses more the will of citizens of a more liberal approach, and we may not be able to do much about it, although I believe that, in particular, people who already have experience, most of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens know that the decision and solution was good. But that's my faith. I don't have any concrete evidence. Mostly the silent majority is the one who agrees, most people come out to the streets when they don't. So here, although I am a very clear advocate and a follower of the ban on smoking in restaurants, if there was a national referendum, if at least 25% of our proposal were to be said for a ban, and at the same time it would be most of those voters, i.e. that we would have to have about 4 million voters who would come and say this question if 25 percent of them said - no, we don't want this ban, we want to have a liberal option to choose and smoke in restaurants - and now I'm going to put it in parentheses - and we don't care if there are families with children or not, we just want it - so I would really have to shut up and say it's the will of the people and I'm going to submit to it because there are more than 2 million people who want it. And those who wanted to express the will that I would like to assert should not sit at home and come and vote. So I see no reason to fear that on the issues that most of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens will of course consider important, they will rise from their chairs and vote and show their will. So in this respect, I think that thevorum is set high enough not to deal with any marginal issues, and at the same time it is viable because it does not prevent or impose too high demands on ourselves as they were at the beginning, when we could actually manage the deadly legislative child that we should have, but in practice we would never achieve a referendum that would be binding. Nevertheless, I think it is one of the few questions where we can still discuss when we can discuss the reduction. In order to meet one of the strong parliamentary political parties of the SPD, she will show us a helpful attitude in relation to the discussion that it seems virtually. that it will respect that we are a part of the international community and will not - forgive me, President Okamura, through Mr President, actually now Mr President, Vice-President - will not insist that this heading of questions be included in the possibility of voting on it in a national referendum. So you can see that we still have some options here to move on. And the five political parties will either demonstrate that they will bite something, each of us, give up something in favour of at least achieving a constitutional bill in the Chamber of Deputies with the necessary majority of votes, or 120 votes. It's not gonna be easy, we know, but I still don't think it's all that much effort. The second thing I would like to comment on concerns the insurance policies, little has been said about them so far. I think that the insurance policy in the form of a review of the mandatory Constitutional Court will exclude us - and we also did not remember it at first, virtually. We remembered, but it was not, in a procedural way, well-adjusted - questions that could be captivating, dubious, unclear, manipulative, questions that a common citizen, perhaps very intelligent, but not capable in this area, which would not, for example, put together a context and a political one, could answer yes, although, in fact, if he knew the consequences and the question clearly implied it, he said no... The Constitutional Court is a sufficient guarantor, and I don't think we have another institution here for a more qualified assessment. [[18.40 hours]] Finally, the next thing I would like to stress is the possibility of 50,000, and I can confirm the signatures as chair of the petition committee, or a very low number of votes, which will already allow the whole process of the national referendum to start, so we have reduced the original idea that it should be 400, 500, 800 thousand signatures. Just 50 grand, the trial will be initiated, the Constitutional Court will say: yes, the question is legitimate, constitutionally conformal, continue. And then the 400,000 signatures that add up to the 50,000, I think, are going to be relatively easy to get. It's also a long enough time. So you can see that the proposal that eventually adopted it by the Constitutional and Legal Committee is indeed a proposal for many compromises. I had hoped until the last moment, and I still hope that there will be five of us who will vote for him, because that is the only way we have a chance, and I hope that our helpful steps towards certain concessions will also be returned from the SPD, because our heart affair is certainly also. So allow me to conclude at the end of the general debate, which I have not prepared too systematically in advance, and you have already taken most of it away from me, dear speakers, that I wish not only to politicians but, above all, to Czech citizens and citizens, so that they can finally see this national referendum, so that they can express their will in it, once again, when some questions are put to the vote, which divide society, and that we also have a signal if the referendum does not turn out to be so binding that the majority will not be binding, but will guide us in our political decision-making, at least how hundreds of thousands of citizens have expressed their opinion. It is, in fact, a state representative research into the political election of voters. And I think that we politicians, too, should then follow this regardless of our political points, because, after all, we are here to stand up for, enforce and defend the will of those who elected us. I wish the next, less turbulent course of the legislative process. I hope to be friendly, and let me call on the SPD to join those who will not say it is a dysfunctional law, because it is a functional law. However, on our part, I would also recommend to the other four political parties who wish to adopt this proposal to be helpful and compromise to a certain limit that is acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u41	Thank you. Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Přemysl Mališ apologizes today from 17.30 to the end of the day for family reasons. Mr Marek Benda, President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, will now speak in the general debate and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Vice-President for addressing him as President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, but I am not acting as Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I am acting as Mr Marek Benda, elected as Member of the ODS, with what I wish to say to you at the moment. You know that our view on referendums in general is very skeptical, we do not consider it necessary for the Constitution to regulate a general referendum, we have clearly declared it in the past. If there is any important interest, then it is possible to adopt a special constitutional law on holding a referendum and all these dances that take place here are just an attempt to pretend that we want to pass on some power to the people, which, in my opinion, and here, surprisingly, I agree with my colleague Okamura, does not work at all and will not work. I would like to point this out on the specific text of the proposal, which was adopted on the basis of the very initiative of essentially social democracy negotiators, YES and Pirates of the Constitutional-Legal Committee, which I would like to comment here, in particular Article 2, which you have before you, where it is said that, in a referendum under this constitutional law, there can be a decision on matters of internal or foreign policy of the state with the exception of decision-making - I am stressing the foreign policy of the state - where there are sentences that say: breach of obligations - but which must not be decided - breach of obligations arising for the Czech Republic under international law, membership of the Czech Republic in an international organisation or institution, clearly positive and negative, or expressing consent to the termination or ratification of an international treaty pursuant to Article 10a of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This means that international policy leaves me only the declaration of war, which is probably something that could be carried out by a referendum in the Czech Republic. All others, including the fact that we want to go there or her, want to be friends with him or him, cannot really be implemented in foreign policy. It makes it seem pointless to me to say that we are supposed to have something there about making foreign policy decisions at all. Then let us say that we can only decide internal issues, and let us not put foreign questions into the text at all. Similarly, I consider Article 9 to be an extremely controversial provision, i.e. the binding nature of the decision taken in the referendum. The decision taken in the referendum obliges the Government during the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies in which the referendum took place, however, for at least three years from the date of notification of the result of the referendum vote. The Government shall implement this decision within its scope. Even paragraph 2 states that the decision taken in the referendum obliges the two chambers of Parliament during the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies in which the referendum took place, but for at least three years from the date of the announcement of the result of the referendum vote. For this period, both chambers of Parliament will not adopt a resolution which would be contrary to the decision taken in the referendum. It doesn't make any sense to me at all. It obliges both the Chamber of Deputies and the Government, even in the context of the "at least three years" document. If it was "up to three years," I would still understand it, but "at least three years," it probably wants to say that it also obliges the Chamber of Deputies, or the Senate, or the government that will emerge from the elections that took place after the referendum between which something took place, the political parties are running for a programme, it will somehow turn out and we will still pretend that they are committed to the previous referendum decision. In addition to the fact that it is, of course, unenforceable, because you will never force Members, senators, and even members of the government to vote in any way, you may as far as possible forbid them to accept something that is contrary, but when they accept it, I still wonder what would happen if the Constitutional Court canceled it, but it might cancel it. You will certainly never force the Houses of Parliament to accept something positively. But it seems completely pointless for us to say: it also obliges the authorities that have already passed the elections in the meantime. Honestly, let's look at what's happening in the UK today around brexit. After all, there is an absolutely fundamental problem in that political representation thinks, or at least its majority thinks something other than what has been agreed in the referendum, and all the dances with leaving, not leaving, one, another, third round of arguing with the European Union are based on the fact that there is simply no majority who would like to do what citizens voted for in the referendum. [[18.50 hours]] So it's Britain - and now I don't want it, I don't criticize the decisions that the Brit have taken in the referendum, that was their absolute right. But it shows what a huge hole these referendum decisions have in giving some direction, but if there isn't enough will to execute that instruction, if there are all kinds of inventions, delays and ways not to execute it, nothing will happen anyway. And frankly, it only increases the frustration in the country and the dissatisfaction with it. So let's not mess with the referendums. I've dealt with this once in the past that I've started messing with the President's direct election, as I've said here many times before, until today I apologize for that. It was a big mistake that I accepted this amendment of the Constitution, which significantly shifted the Czech constitutional system. And I don't think we should mess with the fact that we're going to move it further by putting it - even as dubious as that - a referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u43	This is how Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, who is currently the last to debate in the general debate, will now speak. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u44	Thank you. I'll be brief. I could respond to my previous speaker's appearance not now, but some moments ago at his first performance. Our legal opinion simply does not agree with what Article 2 of the Constitution contains. But I think that it is my right to say such an opinion, and I insist on it, because the Constitution of the Czech Republic really assumes that there will be a law where the people exercise their power directly. On the other hand, I can agree with him that we can adopt a special constitutional law at any time to decide on it or on it. But that is not the subject of this negotiation. Because this is about declaring such a referendum by ordinary law, not constitutional law, and therefore the KSČM was also reconciled to some of the things that were contradicted, whether it was an issue of international legal obligations or obligations, which also concern serious national issues, where the intensity of the touch on the current legal order and the factual state of society can be high. So this allows us to accept that some of the things we would have to decide in a referendum only on the basis of constitutional law, a new constitutional law, such as the only constitutional bill on referendums on accession or non-accession to the EU, which ultimately fell in favour of accession, as decided by the citizens of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, there are a number of commitments, for example, in an international legal area which certainly do not have such intensity and could be decided according to the ordinary law. For example, how long should the Czech Republic have access to an international obligation on the sea day, which is one of the 250 international obligations of the Czech Republic. But obviously, there was a political will to solve something like this, and that negative definition is absolute. It's so possible. I do not want to delay the debate, I think there is only one debate before us in the detailed debate, and I can therefore say that I am glad that we finally got to the fact that we are discussing the referendum law and that we may be more successful than in the first attempt that passed through the Chamber of Deputies, I think it was more than ten years ago, in the year, I think, 2005 or 2006, when it passed, and then the Senate, which is a general opponent of human decision making and not just selected politicians, decided it. So I wish this proposal success, regardless of whether it is one of the proposals that will eventually pass through the compromise in the Chamber of Deputies on the constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u45	There. I'll look around the O.R. to see if there's any more interest... in the general debate. So I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Anyone interested? Mrs Valachová, Mr Michálek? [[They don't.]] And now, here he has fallen - I was not in charge of the meeting at the time, from you the chair of the Jakub Michálek MP club had a proposal just to know at what stage we will vote on him, because I am here at the moment... and I do not have it in the notes so that we can proceed correctly, if I may ask you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So now, as the detailed debate will be opened, we will vote on the proposal that I have tabled as rapporteur on the basis of the recommendations of the constitutionally-legal committee, so that further discussions continue in relation to the comprehensive amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee, which is contained in the Houses of the Press 111/3. So amendments will be made to this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u47	Okay. So I'll start a detailed debate first. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. So now there are some proposals for priority rights. You want to get off, then? [[To MP Michálek.]] So now we're going to vote on that proposal you just made. Okay. So I'm gonna go on. I'll check you out, all of you, sign up with your voting cards. With priority rights, the chairman of the Pirates Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u48	I have been asked by my colleague, Professor Válková, to explain once again what is being voted on. Given the fact that the Constitutional and Legal Committee had a substantial re-enactment of the original proposal for social democracy into the form recommended by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we now need to vote that the press, as amended by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, will continue to be discussed, as amended by the comprehensive amendment. All other amendments will then be tabled to this proposal, as amended by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. And we should do it very quickly to make it by seven o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u49	So the detailed debate will be after that if this is voted on to this comprehensive amendment that has been drafted. We know what we're going to vote on. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 214, 127 Members registered, for 114, against none. The motion was accepted. Now, in a detailed debate, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal is registered with priority rights. Subsequently, I and then Member Dominik Feri. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u50	Well, thank you for this opportunity. Since, therefore, some other basis has been chosen practically, which is different in some of the details from my original proposal, I have to withdraw my original proposal at the moment, but I believe that I will still have the opportunity, if necessary, to deliver these amendments at some ongoing second reading, because I believe that we will not be able to fully deal with it today. So thank you for your attention. I'm dropping my proposal two, three, four, five, and I assume I'll come with another. And I also thank the House for choosing the compromise proposal as the basis on which we can continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u51	Thank you. That was Vice-President Pikal. Now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura, who has the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u52	I will sign up for my amendment under number 2040. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u53	Thank you, Tomio Okamur, that's enough. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u54	Thank you. I propose rejecting this proposal at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u55	Okay. This was a procedural proposal that was voted at the beginning of the third reading. Who else in the detailed debate? If no one - Mr. colleague Michálek first. [[Response to a note off the microphone.]] Okay, in that case, Mr. MP, Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u56	Thank you again for that word, I didn't expect to have to perform again. After all, my attention has been drawn to some of the problematic provisions of the proposal, as it was presented on the Constitutional Legal Committee, I think that there are twice -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u57	Well, I'm gonna have to cut you off... [[Report to the O.R. - With a laugh:]] I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u58	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-007-017.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Wednesday, 6 November, until 15.30 pm and reminding you that tomorrow, this is 6 November, the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 9 o'clock. Have a good evening.
