ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u1	115. Proposal by Radek Holomčík, Dana Balcarová, Jan Zahradník, Jan Hrnčíř, Vlastimil Válek, Petr Pávek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 201/2012 Sb., on air protection, as amended /house print 422/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as Parliament's press 422/1. prosit have Mr Radek Holomčík, Mr Radek Holomčík, present the proposal. I ask for peace in the Chamber and I ask the plaintiff to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we want the butterfly back! We just don't compose dadaistic poems about it, but we come up with concrete proposals and we come up with concrete proposals to help solve the problems of our forests, our landscape, our soil, our water, and we also want to fight against the godforsaken business disguising itself for something that is meant to bring nature some positive value, but what in real life only makes the situation worse. And that is exactly what our amendment to the Act on Air is to abolish the minimum mandatory amount of incorporation of biofuels into fuel. I would like to read the statement of the Ministry of Transport at the beginning of my contribution, i.e. the original statement of the Ministry of Transport. I don't know if you remember the mess that came about, but when our proposal came to the government, the Ministry of Transport gave a positive opinion that after about four days, when the then Minister of Transport, he was still Minister of Transport, he returned from some foreign trip, the Ministry turned around, after which about three days the Minister learned from the Young Front that he was tired of being Minister and decided to quit. Then I will read the opinion: After examining the parliamentary proposal in question, the Ministry of Transport recommends the Government to adopt a favourable opinion on it. The introduced support for biofuels has pursued several objectives: the mandatory incorporation of biofuels into fuels available on the Czech market represents the chosen way to achieve the 10 percent renewable energy target for 2020 in the transport sector, which represents the first of Europe's milestones in reducing emissions in transport. Another reason for compulsory incorporation was the achievement of the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the overall life cycle of fuel supplies. However, there is already a great deal of evidence that first-generation biofuels are not involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or vice versa. As has been shown in recent years, it is necessary to reconsider the achievement of the objectives set through the support of the first generation biofuels. Biofuels currently used as additives in fuel are almost exclusively produced from food biomass. Thus, there is a competitive use of land for the production of food or feed for the currently used biofuels. From the point of view of transport, we agree that although biofuels have some positives, such as better combustion, there are significant disadvantages associated with them, such as in particular greater consumption of rape oil methylester compared to diesel fuel when vehicles are running. The disadvantage is also the possibility of attracting water to alcohol in fuel and thus increasing the corrosion of metal parts of vehicle engines. Another aspect is the technical problems in combustion engines. Mostly all biofuels require adjustment of the fuel system and optimization of engine operation. Some biofuels require shortening the oil exchange intervals. Part of biofuels has a negative impact on the production of basic health harmful emissions of internal combustion engines. The above objectives can also be achieved in other, more appropriate ways, for example by promoting a comprehensive solution in the field of intermodal transport, by using efficient means of transport in urban public transport -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u3	Mr. Ambassador, I may have to interrupt you, but the O.R. has left the last minister at the moment, we have no government here, and according to the current House resolution, we should not continue at this time. [[Messenger. What a scandal!]] So I'm gonna interrupt you for, like, two minutes, and we're gonna try to find someone. So I'm interrupting the House meeting by 5:00. [[Objection.]] Sorry, 15 o'clock. [[Laughter.]] By 4:10 p.m. [[Minister Hamáček enters the Chamber.]] However, the Minister is already here, so we can proceed. Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, for coming back with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u4	I would also like to thank the Minister through Mr President for allowing the continuation of the discussion of our grand proposal. Where was I? The above-mentioned objectives can also be achieved in other, more appropriate ways, such as by supporting a comprehensive solution in the field of intermodal transport, using economical means of transport in urban public transport, efficient use of car transport capacity, promoting electromobility and hydrogen means of transport, especially in the case of truck transport and, last but not least, by decentralising energy sources. We agree with the proposal to abolish the obligation to mix biofuels into fuels for the above reasons. That was the original, uncensored position of the Ministry of Transport, which was drafted by professional staff before the Minister returned from his foreign trip. [[16.10 hours]] And at this point, I could end up with a clear conscience because the Department of Transport said everything for me. But I'm not quitting. I would like to disprove the five myths that have been circulating since that time or since we filed this proposal. First myth: our proposal threatens our international commitments. It would be true if Section 21 of the Air Protection Act were included in the proposal. But that's not part of it. This paragraph stays there. And it's exactly the paragraph that is actually losing the most of the restrictions, the potential restrictions, the burdened part of our liabilities, and that's the 6 percent reduction in emissions from the life cycle of biofuels -- sorry, fuel by 2020. So here for that reason, it's really just a myth. Even in the light of the other circumstances that I will still be talking about, this will not harm the fulfilment of the 10% limit on the use of renewable resources in transport in some short term. I would like to say, often it still gets (?) that it is 10% on biofuels. It's not true. It is 10% on renewables in transport. Important to say. In addition, our proposal contains, or the legisvacation period resulting from the proposal is six months. This means that if we could approve this proposal this year, it will come into force sometime next year at this time, and by the end of 2020, the proposal simply does not have a real chance to influence the fulfilment of our commitments. And, of course, if this proposal goes through the second reading, I have no problem discussing whether or not to direct it to that January 1, 2021. The second frequent myth: our proposal will damage farmers. Here I would like to quote one paragraph in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. "We also consider that the substantial reduction in the consumption of first generation biofuels in the Czech Republic would certainly not mean a diversion from the cultivation and processing of oilseed rape and other raw materials to the biofuels committee. In 2017 only one third of the production of rape produced in the Czech Republic was used to produce the methyl ester of rape oil. Similarly, this applies to corn and diabetes. That was only 13 percent. Unused raw materials and produced biofuels would only be exported to the surrounding EU countries in the present case.' Here it must be said that if anything harms most Czech farmers, it is the long-term direction of Czech agricultural policy. It can be... In fact, the fact I just read from the opinion of the Department of Agriculture suggests that to some extent. If we have agriculture based on the fact that two or three crops are profitable, and so it has just been for quite a long time, and agricultural policy has not dealt with this forcefully, increasing the rotation process, the possibilities - for example, greater support for protein crops, consumer potatoes. It is interesting for those potable potatoes that voluntary production support is CZK 4,752 per hectare for potable potatoes, while for starch potatoes CZK 13,679 per hectare. The numbers on the potato shortage went through the ether a while ago. It just shows the absurdity of how the system is built. Third point: we do not have alternatives to biofuels. To a certain extent, I could agree with that. Moreover, the proposal, and it is also in the explanatory report, envisages that if we cancel, as we propose, the obligation of the minimum quantity, the system will have to continue to use biofuels for some time anyway, because we are ten years old when we use biofuels and when we actually have some obligations towards the EU, we have failed to develop alternatives and we have delegated our obligations by the provisions in the Act on Air to suppliers of fuel. And what do we actually say to suppliers by law, the original form? And not only suppliers, but also linked to technology companies? Invest whatever you want, but you'll still use biofuels no matter what. And we see great potential precisely in alternatives that will lead, on the one hand, to reducing emissions in transport and reducing dependence on fossil fuels. We see great potential from an economic point of view. Here are a number of innovative companies. Colleges do highly interesting and valuable research. And we just want this status quo, which doesn't help almost anyone, to unplug to finally start investing in the development and development of meaningful technologies in this state. Fourth point: our accession to the EU is responsible for biofuels. That's not entirely true either. The EU has said that it wants some of the two parameters that I have referred to here and has left the Member States relatively free to do so in the way they will meet them. Most countries have come up with a mix in which, of course, biofuels are, but it's not just up to them. We have chosen the easiest and unfortunately, as it turns out, the worst possible path. I would also like to remind you what the support for biofuels looked like before we joined the EU. These are also interesting numbers. At some point in 2002, 2003 biofuels were supported by the fact that the fund, which is the predecessor of the current ZIF, bought a ton of rape from a farmer for CZK 7,000 and sold it to a biofuel processor for CZK 3,000. That's how it worked. It was also one of the first things that the EU immediately stopped us for understandable reasons after our accession. So to blame this on the EU is half the truth. And rather a smaller half of the truth. And the last myth, which also appears in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, is that the EU is actually pushing the support of biofuels. The first generation, especially the first generation. It's not true. When we look at a directive that is sometimes called RED II, it is actually a directive that somehow determines the renewable energy policy by 2030, we can clearly see that the share, especially after 2023, of biofuels of the first generation will simply go down. The supported one, the wanted one. For biofuels, such as palm oil, this process is even more rapid. But not with us. When we look at the document that our government took note of on 28 January of this year, the document is called The proposal for a national energy and climate plan of the Czech Republic, so we see in Table No. 16 that it is assumed that the consumption of biofuels from this point on will increase in the first generation in our country every year. It will not fall as in the rest of Europe, but it will grow until 2030. What is more, the same document also talks about a rather rapid increase in support of electromobility, precisely the electromobility that the Prime Minister refers to as green rubbish from Brussels. We think that if we are to deal in any meaningful way with the issue of reducing emissions in transport and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, then the state cannot act like a tool. He can't come in and shoot the private sector off the set with some tough conditions. He can do it in extreme cases. But in this case, where we're dependent on development, on innovation, the state has to go primarily as a partner, and it has to actually motivate this sector positively. [[16.20 hours]] Of course, I'm afraid, without certain restrictions, especially for the burning of coal, etc. we will not be able to do this in the future, but in this segment, if we are talking about reducing emissions in transport, it is simply without the cooperation of the state and the private sector, but even the academic sphere is not going to work. Our proposal is that it opens the door to such meaningful cooperation. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make it possible for you to proceed to second reading. We are not resisting any debate at all, we can comment on some of the aspects of this grand proposal on committees, but it would certainly be good for the debate to take place. I was talking here about the RED II Directive. If the European Union has in some way been trying to deal with reducing emissions in transport, reducing dependence on fossil fuels, these tendencies will continue and become ever more intense. And if we don't start working this out systematically now, future generations and, in particular, future governments will have a big problem. Unfortunately, at this point, it doesn't apply that anyone who doesn't do anything will ruin anything. It's exactly the opposite. So please, let's do this and let this proposal go through to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u5	Thank you, too. I am now asking the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Karla Maříková, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a report on the bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended. The proposers of this bill want to end the legislative obligation to incorporate the components of biological origin into diesel and petrol. The proposers point out that, through European Union law and efforts to reduce emissions in transport, soil perception has been changed in the past as a factor of production not only for food production but also for the production of energy plants for the production of biofuels, and thus the soil degradation is taking place. In their explanatory report, the proposers state that the production of commonly used biofuels, such as biodiesel from maize rape and bioethanol, can contribute to global warming, or to a greater extent than the greenhouse gas emissions reduced by fossil fuel savings, and thus CO2 emissions, through N2O emissions. According to the appellants, there is already a great deal of evidence that the first generation biofuels are not involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and therefore the objectives pursued by the promotion of biofuels need to be re-evaluated. The proposers also point out that the CO2 balance is also unfavourable. Plant growing and subsequent processing of plants into biofuels is an energy-intensive process in which CO2 is released into the air. The production of carbon dioxide thus generated in biofuels of the first generation reaches 50 or more percent of the savings in CO2 production of second generation biofuels is significantly better. According to the World Organisation for Agriculture and Nutrition, biofuels have a negative impact on water and soil. For the production of first generation biofuels, a large amount of water is needed to irrigate agricultural crops. It can no longer be forgotten that agricultural land is degraded by the cultivation of crops for biofuels such as rape or maize. Biofuel of the first generation, i.e. bioethanol, rape oil methyl ester and fatty acid methyl ester, in addition, according to Members, cause incomparable damage at both local and global levels. The designers are aware of the commitment of the Czech Republic to the European Union's energy strategy. The European legislation establishes a commitment for the Czech Republic that in 2020 the share of energy from renewable sources in transport should be at least 10 per cent of the final consumption of energy in transport and that greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy should be reduced by 6 per cent in the case of fuels by 2020 compared with the basic standard for fuels. The proposers say that if an effective low-carbon economy knowledge concept were created and implemented, the Czech Republic is able to meet the objectives without mandatory incorporation. The proposers consider as an alternative procedure to support the development of technologies for the production of second generation biofuels using non-food biomass, in particular usable household oils, rendering fat, methane removal from municipal and landfill waste, plastic pyrosynthesis, etc., from which biofuels or biogas are produced. The reasons given by the appellants cannot be disagreed with. However, it is not mentioned whether the full implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources will be ensured. If it were not, the Czech Republic would put itself at risk of sanctions on the part of the European Commission by adopting this law. However, I recommend that we refer this House press to the committees where we can discuss it in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u7	Thank you, too. I am now opening up a general debate to which, at the moment, six Members are registered, as the first Mrs Balcarová, will be given a number of factual remarks after her speech. Before I give the lady my word, I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Mihola apologizes to us today at 18 o'clock for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you to support this amendment for second reading, so that you can give room for discussion in the committees, and here, as part of the second reading on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I see this as a very crucial issue in the field of the environment, given that the cultivation of biofuels has a negative impact on the environment. It has been discussed here that the promoters of this amendment certainly do not want to jeopardize the commitments of the Czech Republic to the greenhouse gas discharges that we have committed to and which should prevent the warming of the planet from increasing by more than 1.5 degrees. We are aware that this is a great responsibility and that we want to keep these commitments, but we want to go through ways that do not harm the environment, because then it doesn't make any sense. If we want to reduce greenhouse gases and damage the environment as a result, we will not actually move in a positive direction, but vice versa. We're actually going to damage the environment, which will then be less stable, there's going to be a little bit of room to adapt to a progressive climate change, so we're actually going to make things worse. Even if we reduce the need for greenhouse gas discharges, the result will be negative. I would like to emphasise here some negative aspects that I believe are linked to the cultivation of crops on first-generation biofuels. As has already been said here, it is overuse of chemistry, it is overuse of pesticides and herbicides, which result in soil degradation and, above all, pollution of groundwater. We see that people find that they have so many pesticides in their wells that water does not meet the conditions for fitness. We also had a seminar here last year at the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, which has just informed us that it has been found that a large number of groundwater, which serves as sources of drinking water, is contaminated with pesticides to the extent that it is a big problem to clean them and in some cases it is no longer possible to prepare water that has the quality of drinking water. And that is a big step back, because the Czech Republic has always had quality drinking water and we have not had these problems. It is possible that in the future we will have them much bigger. Not only does the water dry from underground, but it will also be so poor that it will not be possible to use it for drinking. Drinking water is a big problem precisely as a result of the cultivation of first-generation biofuels. The second thing is to threaten biodiversity. Since the 1990s, birds have been halved in the Czech countryside, as well as insect loss, which is absolutely alarming. All of this has an impact on how the Czech landscape will work and how fruitful it will be. As a result of the cultivation of first-generation biofuels, food self-sufficiency is also threatened, and the price of food grown in agriculture is actually increasing. So I appeal to you to make these arguments that I have put forward here and which are actually an argument not to support the mandatory incorporation of first-generation biofuels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u9	I also thank you and ask for a little more peace in the room. Before I invite other speakers, which are Members who are enrolled in factual remarks, which are Mr Holík and Mrs Fialová, I will introduce you to the apologies. Mr Feri apologizes to us between 17 and 18.00 for reasons of work and Mr Venhoda between 18 and 19.00 for reasons of work. I now ask Mr Holík, who has been on the record for quite a long time now. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u10	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I would very much like to follow up on my predecessor, colleague Balcarová, but I would like to return to the name of environmental protection. I confess that I have asked several times both the Ministry of the Environment and a number of important personalities to get an analysis of what mineral fuel pollutants and fuels are with the addition of vegetable oils. I never got it, or I got a few pages where nothing was said. Since I'm a graduate chemist, I have no choice but to do a little chemistry here right now. Don't worry, it'll be easy. So motor fuels are hydrocarbons. If I compare it to that, it's kind of like barbed wire, where there's carbon atoms attached to the base part, and there's hydrogen atoms on the spines. If they're mineral fuels, it's just a simple connection. But if they're plant fuels, these contain double bonds. And when there's a double bond, I always have to throw out a couple of hydrogens, and that actually makes the percentage of carbon significantly higher. So once again, the higher the proportion of plant fuels, the greater the carbon footprint in the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u11	Thank you for your time, and now, Mrs Fialová, with my point of fact. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. It is true that we must protect drinking water, it is true that we must protect the soil. But it is not true that only biofuels, or the cultivation of commodities for the production of first generation biofuels, are at risk of drinking water. Because in the same way, we will also grow other crops that are not used for this production. So let's give the exact facts here, and let's not do demagogy again. And I'll ask you about that. Do you think that by reducing the share of the first generation's grown commodities in the production of biofuels, these crops will stop growing in our country? That they're not gonna make biodiesel anymore? Or any other crops? That we will not stop exporting them to the European Union? That's what's gonna happen. We will support other countries in the European Union, not in our country. In the Czech Republic we will supply second generation biofuels. This will reduce the price for one litre of diesel or petrol to the population and support other European countries. We'll keep growing them on our soil. If all this were so negative and environmentally unacceptable, why hasn't the European Union banned this production long ago? Despite the efforts of certain business groups to completely abolish the production of first generation biofuels, to which the Commission responded by reducing production volumes to 5%, this limit was not put in place in the light of the real facts and the ceiling for the use of renewable energy sources in transport was left at 7 percent. Therefore I appeal - you play a good game, but unfortunately on the wrong field. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u13	Thank you. And now, with the factual remark of Mr Feranec, then Mr Koten. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u14	Hello, Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. We're having a very technical discussion here. I understand that. I would just like to point out, I think Mrs Balcarová said that biofuels are not really growing, they are not growing, they are not growing. Various plant products are grown. That statement really reminds me of that famous statement about biomass. So if we're on this level of expertise, let's stay in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u15	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. If I'm watching this first-generation biofuels debate here, I have to agree on a lot of things, sometimes disagree. However, every time someone talks about the benefits of biofuels, I have to argue easily, because unfortunately, the so-called biocomponent that is added to diesel has destroyed my injection pump and car injectors. It cost $50,000 at the time, so maybe I'm biased. But, for example, the biopatterns that we feed with corn. For example, carrying such a biopatter once every 14 days comes in fuel, i.e. diesel, to a brother of 150,000. Then we're making the green electricity. But I'm just wondering if we're actually burning fossil fuels in this case to start a biogas station with corn, which we'll grow in South Bohemia for example, we'll take it to the Highlands and then we'll produce organic energy there. Just like this bizarre situation is exactly with biofuels, which we therefore produce by growing some crops in the field. We have to manage these fields in some way, we're gonna burn some oil on it again. And then we're finally going to process it again, and we're going to put it back in biofuels, and we're going to think about how green we are. So I'm just wondering if it's more ecoterrorism than ecology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u17	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Holomčík is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond by your means, Mr President, to Mrs Fialová. As far as the first generation biofuels or food biofuels are concerned, let us call them what we want, as well as in the plan after 2020 towards 2030, the European Union is counting on a rapid reduction. Unlike the Czech Republic. This law, as it is now written, preserves the condition. That's why we want to change it. That's the first thing. And two. If my colleague here distinguished the biofuels of the first generation and the second generation with the fact that if we cancel the first generation, we're going to have to do the second generation, I would recommend reading the Air Protection Act. Because that law doesn't distinguish biofuels by generation. There, they are distinguished only by the type of engine they are poured into and do not distinguish the first and second generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u19	Thank you. I'm going to introduce you to your apologies. Mrs Jírovcová apologizes to us today from 16.45 to the end of the day and tomorrow from 10 to 12 o'clock for work reasons. We apologize to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec from 14:00 to 17:00 for work reasons. And Mr Kalous excuses us between 5:30 and 7:00 for work reasons. And now, please, Mr Kott, who is duly enrolled in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, I, as well as my fellow promoter Radek Holomčík, will take the position of producers of renewable alcohol in the Czech Republic, so that I am not suspected of defending rape here. So they're distillers. And in the second part, I'm going to try to explain what's going on with growing those commodities, that it's really not what it's been presented for. [[16.40 hours]] A little of the opinion of producers of renewable alcohol in the Czech Republic. At the outset, it is important to understand what the main purpose of producing renewable energy sources is and why they are for achieving the objectives of both environmental, environmental and economic, established and approved by the statutory bodies of the European Union for the following period. The primary objectives for the production of biofuels, not their own support, as stated in the explanatory report, are the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in transport and transport and the reduction of dependence on imported fossil energy sources, and thus the strengthening of energy self-sufficiency not in the Czech Republic, but in security in the European Union. The opinion of the petitioners, when one of the objectives is to reduce overproduction of food, cannot be agreed because it is contrary to the existing reality in agricultural primary production. As regards the argument of increasing employment in the production of biofuels, this is primarily the possibility of including crops in the rotational process while maintaining the biodiversification rules for maintaining the size of cultivation for individual agricultural primary producers. The truth is that first generation biofuels are the most widespread, economically accessible type of biofuels both in the Czech Republic and in the European Union. The opinion of the submitters that there is a competitive use of soil for the production of food or feed in the first generation biofuels does not need to be commented on because it is very misleading. The phenomenon called competition is the basis of competition and is, or should be, present in any production of any commodity. Advanced biofuels, produced not from raw materials for food production, which the submitters mention, including biogas, are so far mainly in the beginnings, and they cannot ensure that greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments are met in volume and that the limits set in transport in the following years are reached, which is 10% by 2020. The designers in the explanatory memorandum refer to studies demonstrating inefficiency and negative impacts of the production of first generation biofuels, and further argue the factor of indirect changes in land use. We could mention other studies here, which, on the contrary, call into question the conclusions of some studies, which is probably not the objective. We would like the whole thing to be viewed, apart from common sense, by the optics of existing possibilities in production in the Czech Republic and in the European Union. If everything was so negative and environmentally unacceptable, then why would the European Union not have banned this production long ago? Despite the efforts of certain business groups to completely abolish the production of first generation biofuels, to which the Commission responded by reducing production volumes to 5%, this limit was not put in place in the light of the real facts and the ceiling for the use of renewable energy sources in transport was left at 7 percent. As regards the claims made by the proposers on the selected consequences linked to the production of biofuels, i.e. the impact of cultivation on the quality of water, soil, food self-sufficiency, sovereignty, biodiversity, efficiency and others, can be said to be an appropriate adaptation to the facts of the proposal. Two and a half thousand litres of water are required for the production of one litre of biofuels according to the designers. Is this water from atmospheric rainfall? The fact in the Czech Republic that sugar beet, for example, is a source of biomass for production not only of bioethanol is not artificially irrigated in the Czech Republic, which is not mentioned in the proposal. When it comes to the drought problem, it is the problem of all agricultural commodities and not just food ingredients for biomass, for the production of biofuels. For the impact on soil quality, it would be best to ask the agricultural growers of all commodities themselves because, unlike theoretical studies, they know how to manage the land responsibly. In particular, the claim of further studies that the amount of raw material needed to produce such a quantity of fuel that would fill one tank of a car represents the volume of food for one person for a whole year, while the study is based on the opinion of agrarian analyst Mr. Havel as part of blogs on news server aktualne.cz. Yes, I'm getting close to the end. Here is one important thing to mention. Finally, we would like to highlight the latest developments in the views of the European Union institutions on the issue of sustainable production of biofuels within the EU, when on Thursday 13. 6. 2019, the negotiators of the Commission of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union agreed on a compromise, which includes achieving a 13-percent transport target by 2030 and putting biofuels in the first generation to a level in the EU Member States by 2020, with a maximum of seven percent. It also includes freezing the use of high-factor biofuels, such as palm oil, at the current level, with a total launch by 2030. This is a quotation of the position of the producer of renewable alcohol, and I would like to comment very briefly on how the crops that are grown for the production of bioethanol and MERO are destroying and destroying the landscape. I've already tried to explain it to the Environment Committee, so I'll try the House plenary again. No farmer growing these commodities knows until the very end where the crops end. This means that he grows it so that it can end both for food production and, of course, for production as energy crops. Introducing information on the fact that commodities that are grown as energy are more fertilized and are treated roughly chemically, are completely misguided and false. So, please, let's not bring such untruths here, because a person who has just been dealing with this issue for a moment must surely be right with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u21	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Birke, who is next in the debate. Mr. Zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u22	Thank you so much for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, on the basis of an ongoing debate, which has mainly negative effects, following consultation with the Minister of Agriculture and on the basis of our signed agreements within the European Commission, I would like to propose, Mr President, that this press be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u23	Thank you. I'll take note of your suggestion. Please Mr Zahradník, Mr Jurečka will prepare for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is still a surprise to me and I still can't believe that with my signature I have found myself under the bill proposed by the Pirates, but I must say that my signature and his connection to the proposal is in connection with my long-term view of this problem. I remember well the atmosphere in which primary laws arose at the time, according to which we are forced to mix or pour fuels into our cars with a mixture of biofuels. That's when those laws were passed by members and politicians for the Green Party. And I have to say, I think that a large part of the electorate of this party, after its former chairman brought that party to the extreme left of Tung Ce, they crossed over and became voters of the pirát. And now, to my surprise, these pirát are completely pervading the decision of their electorate to introduce biofuels. I remember how around 2006 the head spokesperson of this opinion was then the Green Party and later the Environment Minister Bursík, who simply scared us all, that we had to have 17 percent of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2010, and that to do so we necessarily had to introduce the incorporation of biofuels into petrol and diesel. [[16.50 hours]] In fact, the law began - the obligation began to apply as of 1 September 2007, when at least 2 percent of biofuels, methyl ester, entered into force, were incorporated into diesel. It was the European directive on which we responded that has been in force since 2003, which introduced the obligation to mix biofuels up to 5,75 per cent into consumed diesel or petrol. Quite significant things. So if I'm going to continue my field trip to history, here was a significant moment in 2010, when the amendment to the Act increasing the share of biofuels in fuels was submitted, from 3.5 to 4.1 per cent for petrol, i.e. incorporation of bioethanol, and from 4.5 to 6 per cent for methyl ester of oilseed rape into diesel. It was therefore an increase in compulsory collection by a quarter. And that's when President Václav Klaus, who decided to veto this amendment in 2010, came into play, and I must say that he showed up as a visionary and that I was very fond of his opinion. He insisted that biofuels harm the environment rather than benefit. Then he appears here - absent at the moment - the current Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, not as a politician, but as a proficient lobbyist. He was, and the participants at the time testified to that, which made sure that the House called for the presidential veto to overvote. The meeting, which was extraordinary, was held on 27 May 2010, the day before the parliamentary elections, the last day of its mandate. At that time, Members voted against the President's veto by some 125 votes out of 160 Members present. I know it from some historical record, I wasn't there at the time, but I watched it, and unfortunately I have to say that many of the parties sitting here today in the House contributed to the President's veto vote. So, then, President Klaus, I think he contributed with one of his visions, which is valid to this day, that biofuels, as legally we must mix them into our fuels and into our cars, are harmful to nature. So I decided to join my fellow pirate party, and I signed this bill with my fellow Members for the ODS. Andrej Babiš was then a lobbyist, a major businessman, owner of Agrofert, who had invested the construction of the Preol plant in Lovosice several years before, which is a seed rape processing plant that processes nearly half the production of nearly a million tons of rape that is processed into biofuels. About halfway through the Preol. Another part, another prominent producer of biofuels is Primagra from Milín, again from Agrofert holding. Mr Andrej Babiš then admitted that he lobbied for biofuels, called some Members and tried to influence their decisions. So really, as a lobbyist, still outside of politics, he turned out to be able to, but at this point, he's already on the other side, as if the roles had changed. He's no longer a lobbyist, but he's Prime Minister. However, the interest is well defended. So, as Prime Minister, in the past period we watched him live - the attempt to cancel the tax advantage was not able to vote back then, just his businesses have a huge tax advantage, and thus the production of biofuels is still green with us. Thus, the first generation's biofuel is harmful to the environment, to nature, whether corn or rape, products that exhaust our soil, reduce water supply, etc. There's second-generation biofuels. That's another thing. Next, second-generation biofuels are such a lifesaver. Even here, of course, everything is not as the advocates of biofuels imagine, simply the second generation biofuels will not save us. We just can't take her production off the land, and we can't go back to what the land deserves. I simply appreciate the work of my colleague Holomčík, that - yes, it will probably be necessary for you to perform - to present this proposal, I signed under it. And I also ask you, along with the other speakers, not to follow the call made by Mr Birk and vote not to reject the law, but rather to release this law into second reading and allow it to be discussed in committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u25	Well, thank you, too. It should now be the turn of factual remarks. Before I invite my colleague Ferjenčík, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Hrnčíř apologizes to us for working reasons until the end of the negotiations, and Mr Feri extends his apology from 18 to 19 o'clock for working reasons. Now, please, with Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment, Mr Faltýnek will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I just wanted to respond briefly to my fellow Zahradník. Firstly, the pirate party and the Green Party are completely different political entities, even the Green Party ran for the European Parliament in a coalition with TOP 00 and the STAN movement, respectively. On their joint candidate, so it's a different political party. So please don't confuse. And I just wanted to state here for the record that it was not the pirát or the voters of the pirát who promoted biofuels in the Czech Republic, it was 68 ČSSD Members, 18 ODS Members, 25 KSČM Members, 8 KDU-ČSL Members, 3 Green Party Members and several non-attached Members, among others Miroslav Kalousek. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u27	I also thank Mr Faltýnek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u28	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues, I would just like to say one sentence. I still appreciate your use of the Governor of the Zahradník. Even though he was talking crap here a while ago. [[17,00 hours]] Mr President, I will quote you. I didn't want to perform because I can still feel some conflict of interest in terms of some past and I don't want to comment on this subject, about the nonsense that sounds here. However, it was said here from the mouth of Mr. Governor that Preol is processing 100 miles. tons of rape, my friends. [[With a smile.]] 100 miles. Tons! Do you know how much rape is produced in the Czech Republic? 1,400 thousand, in the best year. Preol's processing 450 grand from that. tonnes, that's 40 percent, and Primagra, mentioned by Mr. Governor Zahradník, is processing 21,000. tonnes and thus produce second generation biofuels, not rape. So it's just a drawing. But, Mr Governor, through Mr President, I still respect you and I recognise you as an environmental expert, landscape protection, and so on. And I'm serious, I'm not kidding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u29	Thank you, too. And Mr zahradník will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'll see my colleague Ferjenčík first. I understand you're a different side, you're a different name, you can tell, you can tell by a literate person. But you can't deny that part of your electorate is the savage former Green Party voters who, in wandering after the Green Young Stropnický led the Party to some extreme leftist positions, tried it over the TOP 09 and moved on to you. [[♪ There's a laugh ♪]] That's without discussion. I understand you're a different side, I understand. But you're capable of doing things like the Green Party did here, unfortunately. And now, then, the chairman of the agricultural committee and the club and everything, some board of directors, certainly still or former supervisory councils. [[Mr Faltynek suggests from the first bench]] I just want to say, I'll play it or I'll read it later. I'm 100 miles. I guess he didn't. I'm the one who said that almost half of Preol's production is being processed. I've got a million, 1,400 thousand. Maybe there's something new, I've got a million tons of reading, about 470 thousand. tons that he's processing the Preol, that's true. But the 100 million, if I have said, Mr. Chairman, then the audience... [[Member of the Faltynek off the microphone, that he caught Mr. Gardener at the word]] ... I'm sure you caught me then, not you, but I apologize to the audience. You too. But like I said, I'm not aware that I'm 100 miles away. I did. But by a million and less than half of the amount directed by Preol from the Agrofert Group of Prime Minister Babiš. [[Member of the Faltynek adds: Former.]] Not the former Prime Minister yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u31	Thank you. I will ask that we observe that we address ourselves through the President, even if I did not want to interrupt this exchange of apologies. And now for the general debate, Mr Jurečka, Mr Schiller will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u32	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, allow me, too, to speak not only as a farmer but also as a plant doctor and also as a former minister on this subject. When we look at history, during the first period of the Republic, the Agrarian Party had the support of biofuels as one of the conditions for participation in the government, so it is a topic that has really been running here for over a hundred years not only in the Czech Republic, but in general with raw materials policy and support for agriculture. After 1990, this was a topic that he also spoke about and began to take some concrete Lux as Minister Josef Agriculture. Anyway, why are we talking about this whole thing? We're talking about this because we've been looking for relationships here, how we really use some of the fuels that we consume in transport today, these are mainly fossil fuels that have been stored here for millions of years, we've been burning them into the air for about 150 years to replace them with renewables. That's how the effort was strained in different ways. I dare say that the Czech Republic made a strategically not entirely good decision just before 2010. The vote was mentioned here in the Chamber of Deputies. If then the ODS government, KDU-ČSL and the Green Party, if I say this correctly, i.e. our predecessors, I self-critically admit it, decided to be more bold, innovative, it could bet on the fulfilment of these renewable transport resources e.g. a higher proportion of electromobility, a higher proportion of biomethane, etc. Unfortunately, it has decided for first-generation biofuels with all the consequences, whether positive or negative. That's what we're dealing with here. We have a specific objective, which we have set together as members of the European Union, and we have said that we want to achieve up to 13 percent of renewable resources as well as the share of transport. If we are talking about this proposal that has now been put forward by fellow pirate parties and some others, then two important things need to be distinguished, and this has not sounded clear enough. The proposal, as the pirát put it above all, actually says: we will end the mandatory incorporation of biofuels so-called. First generation, we will end this within six months of the adoption of this law. When I look at it really a little bit from the technical point of view and some knowledge of the matter, I see the problem with Mr Kott standing next to each other on the methyl ester of rape oil and the bioethanol already mentioned here. What's the problem? And now I'm gonna try to explain it to the public. The problem is that, of course, there is talk of beet here, everyone understands that in quotation marks, sees, recognizes rape, but hardly anyone knows, the 45 percent of the bioethanol that is mixed into gasoline is produced from the overwhelming majority in the Czech Republic from secondary sugar production products, namely molasses. This means that the farmer grows sugar beet which is processed for the production of sugar. The secondary raw material of molasses is always produced in sugar production, which is fermented, burned, and produced bioethanol, respectively. alcohol, and I can decide how to keep using it, whether it's in the grocery store, or if it's incorporated into the fuel, here in this case, into gasoline. So please, it needs to be realized that with this proposal, if it passes in this form, as it is designed, and there will be no need to modify it at second reading, when, if there is a second reading of this law, I will clearly propose it, so with the bathtub you will also pour out the baby. We have been working here over the last few years since 2014 to start increasing sugar beet areas in the Czech Republic with targeted support. The sugar beet market has been unstable for the last two years, it is affected by the fact that they have ended up so-called. sugar quotas on the European market as a regulatory instrument. Now is the time when supply and demand levels are settled, and farmers and sugar factories are in great doubt as to whether they will continue to grow the diabetes. If this proposal goes through, I say it will have a major negative impact on the entire sugar industry, which we have been working very hard to stabilize after the sugar factories closed and devalued our vast tradition here at the turn of the century. It will have an impact on sugar prices, sugar beets, farmers as such. And we support sugar beet in the rotational process as a positive crop, as an ocopanin. It is a pity when someone writes that they will not think about the fact that, on the one hand, the petitioners have taken a topic that the public today perceives very sensitively. So, yes, it said we're going to cancel the first-generation biofuels, meaning, above all, the methyl ester of rape oil and incorporation into diesel. But unfortunately, the petitioner may not have quite figured out what the next convention is for other parts of agriculture, including the landscape, the diversity of rotational practices, the economy of farmers. And I just want to say that the moment the farmers say to you, "it's not economic for us anymore and we're not gonna be making that sugar beet set next year," those sugar factories have no other substitute, they're just gonna shut it down, they're gonna end production once and for all. And please, from over 50 sugar factories that were here 50 years ago, we have the last seven in the Czech Republic. [[17.10 hours]] Please think as legislators and these things, when we present something, we co-sign, though perhaps some in good faith, because maybe these things bother you, and I in principle also mind how it was set up, but let's think about what all the other impacts are then. The question here is that biofuels are today in the Czech Republic at the expense of food self-sufficiency. Please, nicely, for the House and for the public, the Ministry of Agriculture has dealt with this issue repeatedly in the past. We have about 3.6 million hectares of agricultural land in the Czech Republic today. For our full food self-sufficiency in all commodities, which we could grow here in the Czech Republic from the point of view of our geographical area and production conditions and our know-how, we would still have 1 million hectares available for the Czech Republic to decide how to deal with this 1 million hectares of land, if we use it for forests, fast-growing trees, to increase the share of permanent grassland, for example for the Biometane Committee and so on. It's up to us to decide. But please, nicely, let's not use unfair arguments here when we say because there are first-generation biofuels here today, so it's at the expense of our self-sufficiency. It's really not like that. Our self-sufficiency is miserable because we have made some fundamental mistakes here since 1990, starting with state policy and the behaviour of our consumers. With all due respect for all the subsidies that the Ministry can set up here, and with 2014 there has been a change, I've ended up joining the resort with the vast support: farm boy, here's CZK 6,000 and as a matter of fact, we don't ask what you're going to do, do what you want. We have just set up the fact that we have significantly reduced the amount and we have said: you must, farmer, follow the so-called greening measures, you must start doing the basic crop rotation, and some of that money has just been aimed at promoting commodities where we are not self-sufficient, namely fruit, vegetables, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, milk production, meat cattle, and in the context of animal welfare measures, we have targeted pigs and poultry. And if you look at the data, we're going up slowly in these commodities. Why slow down? 'Cause it's not like that for farmers, hop on a cow, and it's already a calf. For one thing, farmers struggle with the fact that when they left the premises for animal production, it is sometimes very difficult after five, ten years to go back there, because unfortunately, in villages, people don't often want animal production back there. They're dealing with the fact that they don't have the labor force. This is another significant limitation, why we are not needed more self-sufficient in certain commodities, even though today, economically with this support that I am talking about, the economy would be starting already. And those farmers just don't have people. So that's a few moments when, in a situation where 30 years have been coughing at something here, it won't be fixed in a year or two, but it will take a long time again for farmers to gain confidence that the state's policy, which is designed to adequately lead to self-sufficiency, food quality and good environment, will be managed for quite a long time. My colleague Holomčík here spoke of potatoes and about how the support, so-called voluntary, tied, production support, or support for sensitive commodities, is poorly set. Mr. Colleague, please, all these aids are set up after a careful economic analysis, when this is calculated. And for you, for the audience and for the Members, I will explain why there is a difference in support between potable and starchy potatoes. It is because a farmer receives a different amount per kilogram of potable potatoes when producing than per kilogram of starch potatoes. That is why we have taken this economy into account, we have put it on rates and, of course, the rates are then approved and discussed with the European Commission. So it's not that there are idiots in the ministry who can't put some extremely high payment on pot potatoes, but after assessing the economy to give support logic throughout the chain, please nicely. That's how it's set. Then there's talk of loss of organic matter. Please, there are far greater problems on the part of organic matter. This is necessary, when crops are grown and many farmers harvest straw repeatedly each year from land, it brings it to the production of pellets, or to the combustion of heat plants. That's about one of the biggest problems of selling and removing organic matter from the soil today. If you think you're growing sugar beet, now our grandpas are coming over for diabetes, cutting off snorkels, scratching leaves, staying in the field, rooting out, he's being taken to the sugar factory, as our grandfathers did a hundred years ago, making sugar, leaving sugar steaks, returning to the farm, where the farmer feeds it, and, of course, he'll take the sty bitch back to the field. So tell me where we lost organic matter now, please nicely. And we are talking about 40 percent of first generation biofuels in the Czech Republic. Where did we lose the organic matter now? Now I said it in a nutshell, I could dissect it as a plant doctor, there are other secondary products. If we grow rape, we are in a situation where the root system stays in the ground, but the above-ground part of the plant harvests the harvest, cuts the stalk, cuts the wheat, and takes small rape seeds, after pressing, returns to the farm, feeds cattle, animals, and returns to the soil in the woodland. And as mentioned here, the farmer, when he grows rape, doesn't know whether he's going to focus on food use or cosmetic use or on the use of biofuels. So so much for us to realize how it works in agricultural practice in the field of processing and returning these different raw materials and commodities. That's probably what I wanted to mention here. Let me just mention one more thing. It is often said here that in the cultivation of these crops used for biofuels, the environment is becoming more polluted by the pesticide burden. Let me give you some specific examples. If you grow food wheat with winter for use in the manufacture of flour and bread, I will do a herbicide treatment in autumn. If there's pest pressure, I'll do an insecticide treatment. In the spring, according to the conditions, according to the weather, I'll do one to three fungicide treatments, and if there's pest pressure in the spring, I'll do one insecticide treatment. I made six. I'm gonna do a herbicide treatment for rape in the fall, I'm gonna do an insecticide treatment, and I'm gonna do one to two insecticide treatments and a fungicide treatment in the spring, I'm gonna do five of them. If the pressure gets higher, I'll do six. So it's not like there's crops like wheat, barley, like malting, where I don't go and do any treatments. I have to do them, too, whether we like it or not, unless I'm a farmer in organic production. So please, nicely, I mention it here not because I am here to defend the ambition of my view of an unfortunate decision in 2010, which was preceded by a two-year debate, but to explain whether we purposefully distort some of the facts and not make us farmers villains who simply behave irresponsiblely towards the landscape and the environment. Just for the record, there's one more thing I'd like to say. Remember, when we talk, there is a high percentage of rape grown in the Czech Republic, so if the grain blooms yellow, and it blooms grey, so people would be terrified of how much grain is in the Czech Republic. But since the grain is generally green, it blooms grey, so people from the car and the train don't notice. And we have about 60 percent of grain in the Czech Republic, we have rape today about 14 percent. So if the petitioner wants to contribute to greater biodiversity, environmental protection, the development of other positive renewable sources in transport, let's look at other laws why it can't be done. Why there is no larger production of biomethane that can be produced both from waste raw materials and possibly from grass crops. Because at this point, there is no support from the state. This is the problem why, perhaps, this clean renewable fuel does not develop to a much greater extent. If you want to look at the proportion of these crops, we can look into the agricultural law and say: we will set some limits, how much percent of rape will, for example, be in the rotational process and how often it will take turns on the land. This is also one of the paths that gives perhaps a much larger ratio. I'm gonna go. For myself, if this law goes into second reading, I will clearly suggest that we distinguish the aid limits in the case of the methyl ester of rape oil from bioethanol, which I am trying to describe the impact on the whole sugar beet sector, because we would really pour out a baby with a tub. [[17.20 hours]] And then please nicely, and that's the last sentence when we say that we're going to end some regime that has an impact on customs systems, stock control and the like, so please the petitioners and those who co-signed it, all of you, don't give effect to the law six months after that law comes out on the first day of the month. That doesn't make sense. So let's put it on January 1st of the following year. Then how are those tax and customs warehouses gonna deal with it? How will distributors deal with this? So, please, let's pretty much think about it. And if we're doing something, let him put his head and heel on it, if we decide to limit it. I don't have a problem with that. Let's limit the methyl ester of rape oil, its use in biofuels. But let's also remember the other effects that it has after that, of course. And let's look for a replacement in other positive sources, renewables, traffic, because that's not what this debate is about. And I miss that a lot. Coming in and saying "no," it only makes me feel that there's a marketing step going on here, but not a step that really makes sense to look for what other renewables we're going to have in terms of fuel in transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u33	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual remark, I will introduce you to my apologies. We are apologized to Mrs Matušovská from 17.10 to the end of the day for family reasons and Mr Adam Vojtěch from 17.15 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the experience of life and the long-term experience of politics is that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I am very aware of the objectives of the petitioners to really improve the situation, both in terms of air and in general the environment, biodiversity and everything else. But I thank Mr Jurečka very much at this point that he has put these matters in the context and pointed out the problems that the proposal has. Mr Birke has made a motion to dismiss. He spoke of the fact that it was in agreement with Minister Toman that it was in relation to European standards and the directives we are bound by and so on. I just want to add that The Ministry of Agriculture deals with this issue and prepares solutions. It would perhaps be better to join forces and really tackle this very, very complex issue together and through a government proposal. Therefore, while I perceive the objectives, I will also vote in favour of rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u35	Thank you. And Minister Vojtěch is still with us, so he cancels his apology, he'll be with us by the end of this point, apparently. [[Sitting in a government bench]] And now, Mr Schiller and then Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u36	Thank you. I actually had quite a lot of arguments prepared, but thanks to my colleague Jurečka, whom I would like to thank here for bringing us back to the ground with common sense, so we actually have nothing left to say properly, because he really took it as we all should have grasped it. And I may only respond to some of the parts that have been said here, for example, that the Air Protection Act does not address whether it is a first class or a second class, a first, a second category of biofuels. This law in Section 19 number 6 is quite an interesting thing, and that the last amendment on air protection introduced the possibility of double counting these fuels into the mandatory minimum shares of biofuels. This means that the second generation biofuels are still favoured, which means they are already introduced there. So it's not entirely true that they wouldn't really think about it. Mainly, there is one important thing that I think should be heard, and that is the fact that there is currently no commercially available technology for the production of advanced biofuels. And the transition from first generation to second is going to be gradual, you could say, almost indistinguishable. That's a thing that didn't really come out here and should be heard. I agree that we should definitely be involved in the development of these things, yes, but we will not go back the way it was with the power plants: we will not, and then we will look for them. Let's look, and when we find an alternative, then we'll talk about it. That's what this is all about. There's another thing, and that's been said here, too, with the lack of straw. Even if it's made with straw... I'm saying there's too much that has already been said, and I'd just repeat myself, I don't want to delay it. But there was one more thing. And every time I'm here, maybe I'll mention it, and that's water protection. It said here that pesticides would be used even if there were other commodities and everything. And I'm just sorry for one thing, and I'm afraid I won't forgive myself again - when we had a water law here, there was a solution that could have been immediate, and that was the incorporation of industrial waters into municipal waste waters. Unfortunately, the pirát failed in this and did not vote for it. And it could have been solved, and the water could have been protected. That's all I'm sorry about. Otherwise, everything was said here. And I thank Mr. Jurečka once again for saying what he said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u37	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová is the last to be included in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of my previous speakers who see the current state of incorporation of biofuels into fuel as correct. Europe has set ambitious climate and energy targets and the European Commission has asked Member States to set up and submit national energy and climate plans for 2020 and 2030. Yesterday, the Commission sent comments on the various plans. She also sent comments to the Czech Republic. They are formulated very diplomatically. However, the Czech plan considers that renewable energy sources and energy efficiency are not sufficiently ambitious. And one of the points that the European Commission is criticising is just to increase the share of first-generation biofuels from plants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u39	Thank you, too. And Mr Holomčík has yet to report to me for debate. Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u40	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the discussion that was interesting, but there are some things that I would like to respond to. What I want to comment most about is the repeated claim that someone forbids biofuels. It has already been said here several times, whether exactly or in the sense that the result of this proposal that we are discussing should be the ban on biofuels. But that's nonsense. No one here forbids anything. No one here is even interrupting those demands to meet our international obligations. All we want is to unplug the state where we choose from possible paths, from possible solutions what we just don't think is right. It's perfectly clear that if we're going to have a conversation over a period of two years, three years, in some short term, the impact--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u41	I will ask the Members who have just arrived in the hall for more peace. There is still a debate going on. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u42	- so the impact won't be dramatic. This is a proposal that looks at 2023 and beyond. That's one thing. So please, let's not repeat this nonsense about banning biofuels. That's not true. As for the things both Mr Kott and Mr Jurečka said about... Mr. Kott said that in terms of the distillery reaction, it would damage them. My colleague Jurečka spoke about sugar factories etc. My colleague Jurečka spoke about sugar factories etc. Perhaps it would be a good idea if you could talk to the Department of Agriculture about what the true version of the story is. [[17.30 hours]] At the beginning I read the paragraph from the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, I will read it again. "We also consider that a substantial reduction in the consumption of first generation biofuels in the Czech Republic would certainly not mean a diversion from the cultivation and processing of oilseed rape and other raw materials for the production of biofuels." I'm not gonna read the whole thing. Then make a deal, please. So whether we're threatening agriculture or not, as the Ministry says. So make a deal if biofuels are the reason the particular crops are grown or not. Make sure we don't have two versions of the story that go against each other. It doesn't make any sense. That's another thing. Mr. Havel's analyst and his glossa of the state have been mentioned here. We can think about what we want, but both he and we were based on European Commission studies, OECD, FAO, World Bank etc. and all these materials that we had at our disposal talked about the fact that first-generation biofuels affect the price of food. Then I don't know where the truth is. My colleague Jurečka here was talking about self-sufficiency, about the fact that it is based on some kind of policy. We were talking to the Brewery Union and malt houses and we were told that they biofuels, respectively. they consider the cultivation of crops from which biofuels are made to be very bad, because there is no place in the Czech Republic to grow more barley, which is so important for our national beverage. But it's just a comment from the Brewery Union and malts. Furthermore, Mr Jurečka here spoke of biomethane, the need to look for other alternatives. I totally agree. Let's do this. My colleague isn't here right now, but I'll tell him. Of course I agree, let's do this, but in this context, I see it as a bit of a distraction from the problem that is being addressed. He also criticized the effectiveness of six months. That's what I said in my opening speech, that I have no problem talking about the fact that it stretches back to 1. 1. 2021. That's what I said, there's no problem. Mrs Gajdůškovášková spoke about the idea of a government proposal that would deal with this. Yes, I agree. I also said that we are no longer at the time when the saying pays who doesn't do anything will ruin anything. Yes, but please, let's do something. Let's do something, time's running out. And lastly, colleague Schiller. To the fact that biofuels, let's say, of the second generation, yes, that is true, but in the sense of the obligation to mix and the possible abolition of the incorporation of that law, it simply does not distinguish biofuels. He only distinguishes them by recognising second-generation biofuels as a double guess... or favoring them. But if we're talking about abolishing the obligation to mix, that's not where the distinction is. So much for the discussion. I thank her once again, and I would ask you very much not to support Mr Birk's proposal, and so that we can discuss this at second reading, respectively. on committees, because even according to the discussion of the court, it is a matter that troubles many of us. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u43	Good evening, dear colleagues. I don't have anyone registered for the general debate. I will see if I see anybody from around here, which is why I am ending the general debate and I am asking if there is interest in the final words. It's not. So I'm gonna go on. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I'll check you out, of course. I checked you all out. Please sign in, all of you. And since there is a motion to reject the proposal, we will vote on it. I'm gonna reengage. I remind you that you're all logged out, i.e. Please log in with your identification cards. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of rejecting this proposal? Who's against it? Voting order number 993, 147 Members and Members of Parliament, for 71, against 66. The motion was denied. We will now consider the draft of the commandment. Sorry, there's an update on the vote. Mrs Majerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u44	I would merely like to clarify when the vote on paragraph 992 was taken on the administrative order, I was opposed to rejection, and on the record I have a pro. I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u45	Yes, thank you, so it's only for recording in the log. The vote is still under control. [[After a brief break: The check must be proper and thorough.]] Please, the Member wants to tell us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u46	I am questioning the vote because I voted in favour of rejecting the proposal, and I have been drugged for being delayed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u47	So you're questioning the vote? Please say it on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u48	I told you right from the start, I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u49	I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. So there's a request to challenge the vote. I'll put this to a vote. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 994, 153 Members signed in for 149,, the proposal was adopted. [[against no one]] There's an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. Please log in with your ID cards. And we will vote once again to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 995, 152 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, the proposal was adopted. [[versus 67]] There's a request for a vote check, which we will, of course, agree to. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] The other side will also look closely at the vote record. [[Control in progress.]] Found it? [[Laughter and applause.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u50	I would like to call on the House's leadership to deal seriously with the technical problems of the voting system, because, apart from Mr Kott, who obviously did not work, I was in favour of accepting the objection or challenging the vote, although there were three new members from the ANO movement, but at the same time I have to say that the voting system failed in a large way at the KSČM club, and it is a pity that they did not come forward as well, because they obviously voted differently. If they voted the same way, they did before. So it's confirmed that the most loyal ally of the ANO movement is there to the left, and they delivered three extra votes, and that's why it got away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-010-115.u51	So you're not questioning the vote, everything's fine. I hereby state that this press has been rejected. The next item is
