ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to re-enlist with your identification cards or to tell me who is applying for a replacement voting card. With the replacement vote card number 20, President Bartoš will vote. I also say that many Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Pikal has no basis.]] Here we go. Mr Bartoš, Mr Stanjura, Mr Brázdil, Mr Bartoš, Mr Bartoš, Mr králíček, for reasons of work, Mr Juránek for reasons of work, Mr Bělovradek for reasons of work, Mr Bělobrák for reasons of work, Mr Birke for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Bláha for reasons of work, Mr Běložek for Okleštěk of work, Mr Běložetá for Bartošek of work, Mr Běločák for reasons of work, Mr Michálek for reasons of labour, Mr Birke for reasons of work for Votava of employment, Mr Jiří Martinů for reasons of employment, Mr Kalousek for reasons of employment, Mr Kubík for reasons of employment, Mr Jurečka for reasons of employment, Member of Parliament of Parliament for Majerová of Parliament for reasons of Parliament, Mr Hanzel for reasons of work, Mr Holomčíková for Jan of Parliament for Richter of the reasons of Parliament for reasons of the first time of work for reasons of the first time of work, for reasons of the first time, for reasons of the first time of the first time of work, for reasons of the first time of the second time of the second time of the family Member for Matyášová of the second, for reasons of the 14 working, for reasons of work, Mr Jirek for Špičák of the former Member for Brzobohatá of the labour of the European Mašek for reasons of the European Parliament for Černochová of the European Parliament for Vrána of the European Parliament for reasons of work, Mr Ji, Mr Jiránek, Mr Běhounek for reasons of the European Parliament for reasons for reasons of the European Parliament for Vyzula of the European Jaroslav for Dvořák for reasons for reasons of the reasons for reasons for Juříček for reasons for Pekarová for Adamová for reasons for Farský for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for Holomčík for reasons for reasons for Pavel for Staněk for reasons for reasons for reasons for Výborný for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for Zahradníková for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for Golasowská for Bělobrádek for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for Válková for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for Pražák for Jan for Volný for reasons for reasons for The following government members also asked to apologise for their absence: Minister Dostálová for health reasons, Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček for work reasons, Minister Maláčová for health reasons, Minister Metnar within 13 hours for work reasons, Minister Petříček for work reasons, Minister Plaga for work reasons, Vice-President Schillerová for work reasons, Minister Toman for foreign travel, Minister Vojtěch for work reasons and Minister Zaorálek for work reasons. That's some apologies. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 291, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. At 11 o'clock, we will continue the negotiations at paragraph 167, which is the parliamentary draft law on inland navigation at first reading, and then, if necessary, the points from the block of contracts will follow at second reading. And today is the birthday of Mr. Jan Richter. [[Let's hear it.]] And now to the point.
