ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u1	27. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended (the House Press 420/ - First Reading) Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by Minister Schillerová, and I will ask her to take the floor. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me introduce you to the Government's bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications. The current legal situation does not fully support the development of competition in the electronic communications market, particularly in the mobile operators' market, which, by its very nature, fills oligopolistic features. Customers of mobile operators are bound by 24-month periods that reduce their ability to migrate between operators. At the same time, the amount of the contractual penalty applied for the early termination of the contractual relationship discourages participants from switching between operators during the duration of the contract and operators from submitting active competing offers. Therefore, in particular, the Government is presenting this amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, which comes in order to promote competition in the electronic communications market and thus promote competition for the benefit of consumers. This should contribute to a fundamental limitation of the possibility of requiring reimbursement in the event of termination of fixed-term contracts and legislative support for the so-called one-stop-shop in the event of a transfer of a number, so that the participant wishing to change the operator is not discouraged by the complexity of the administrative procedure, i.e. by ensuring that all administration is provided for by the operator to which it is transferred. At the same time, it is proposed to shorten the deadline for starting the contract in the event of a transfer of a number for two days. The proposal has already been discussed on two subcommittees, which show that further discussions and discussions on the draft law will be held on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u3	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Martin Jiránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u4	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I thank the Minister for presenting the proposal for an amendment to the Electronic Communications Act. The main principles of the proposal have been presented, which is why I will be brief in the reporting report and then immediately join the debate, where I will discuss the matter more closely and deal with the second proposal on the same subject, which is House press 417, paragraph 28. First of all, as rapporteur, I must say that the law arose on the government at an extremely rapid pace for several days without a standard commentary procedure. I'm sure that's not standard procedure. On the other hand, I see this as an effort to resolve the acute problem quickly, which, given the approaching frequency auction, is certainly. So now to the individual points. It's complicated material, I'll be factual and brief. The reduction of the fine in the first three months to five percent and then zero percent, i.e. without a fine. Now the situation is that the end customer pays a fine of 20% of the sum of the monthly flat rates remaining until the end of the agreed contract duration. That's often for one number and thousands of crowns. Firms have it tougher, they even pay 100 percent. On the ICT subcommittee, we also discussed with experts that it might be easier to cancel the fine even in the first three months, as it is now a government proposal, because even a discussion with operators has revealed that they will probably not even use this reduced fine in the new regulation. But that's a question for discussion. The second point, as presented by the secretary of the so-called one-stop shop, is that the customer can only cross between operators in one place. Now they have to go to places two. It must go to an existing operator, where it will ask for the so-called ČVOP, which is the number for the transfer, which will then inform the operator of the new one. Here, however, there are often different forms of marketing, persuasion for the customer to stay or offer better offers. For some people, this pressure is so unpleasant that they prefer to stay with the existing operator and not even ask for the ČVOP. If the proposal passes, the transition between operators will be solved by visiting only a new operator. There is one small thing, because in this case there is a little bit of security risk with the identification of a new customer, where attempts to steal a number may occur. This will certainly be addressed so that this transmission is safe. We're dealing with a colleague named Nacher. [[9.50 hours]] Third - transfer of number in two working days. Here I will just add to the Minister's attention - two working days. Because even in communication with operators it was discovered that the days of non-working itself are of course also public holidays and here it does not quite work, because the shift of numbers is not only a technical factor, but there is also a human factor. The last point is the definition of the consumer in a government proposal. And that's for a small businessman, a small company, to be taken between consumers. That is all, and I am now reporting for a debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u5	Yes, thank you. I am opening a general debate and confirming that the rapporteur with priority rights has come forward first, and I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u6	Thank you. Now, in the debate, I would like to express myself from the position of draftsman of the item that follows in the agenda, namely paragraph 28, of the Parliament's Press 417. It's a bill that's exactly the same focus we raised two months ago as the subject. However, the government's proposal is broader and in recent weeks we have been working together to improve it. And because I respect the agreement that, as a carrier of the necessary changes, a more comprehensive government proposal will be used, on behalf of the petitioners, by this bill amending the law on electronic communications, the House press 417, I withdraw. And now for the debate on the subject itself. Personally, I am very excited that we are discussing this amendment here. Three months ago, I made a public promise in Václav Moravec's questions that we would try to reduce the transfer tickets somehow. I didn't know if it was going to work. I'm even more pleased to be standing here right now. Thank you to all who have been involved in the preparation of the novel. We have already held two debates with our colleague Nacher on the subcommittee on ICT and telecommunications and on the subcommittee on consumer protection. On these we discussed in detail the techniques, usability and effectiveness of individual proposals for changes. In a few minutes, I'll introduce you to why these changes are needed. We all know that we have expensive mobile data here. We've got a bunch of numbers and we could do this for hours. Anyway, since we can't order mobile operators to sell calls and data for how much, we basically need to increase competition on the mobile market. Thus we can help to reduce prices for people in the long term. Our market is clearly too much concrete, and customer transfers between operators are very low. In fact, people don't have much chance of choosing a significantly better offer, because there is simply no significantly better offer. Offers of all three operators are very similar and competition takes place only in corporate and special retention offers. And virtual operators, who could do something about it, who could move the market, have very high wholesale prices and thus cannot really compete with most customers. And so when the customer would like to cross, if there is a slightly better offer, it is limited precisely by having to pay a fine for the early termination of the contract in the order of several thousand crowns. In the context of simplifying the transition between operators, as presented by the Minister, we must also think about the planned arrival of the fourth operator, which, of course, needs the simplest possible system of transition between operators for a successful start. I will make one comparison as to why it is good that we are now dealing with this issue. A fourth operator came to Italy a year ago. He managed to get three million new customers in the first four months, which he transferred to existing operators. Three million customers in four months. For the sake of clarity, our biggest T-Mobile operator increased the number of its customers for the whole last year, in 12 months, by 11,000. Three million in four months compared to 11,000 in 12 months. That is the difference in the competitive struggle between us and Italy. How did the new operator in Italy do that? Of course, first of all, he had a good offer, second of all - and that is what I am going to do - because there are 80 percent of people in Italy without commitment. Without a contract, i.e. without a risk of a fine, so they can pass at any time and operators must take care of them much more and regularly. On the contrary, 70% of people have a commitment, usually a two-year-old, and they have to pay a fine if they want to pass prematurely. If a new operator here, who could come to us, or one of the existing ones, wanted to make a price revolution and get a million customers in order to pay him a significant discount, one month can reach only 1/24 customers, those who are available, who are on the market. Everyone else would have to pay a fine with a better offer. For the autumn auction and the possible arrival of a new operator therefore, if we can somehow, we need to pave the way a little. Our market is really small and very closed and it will be difficult to get a good, motivated and strong operator. I think it is clear to all of you that the high penalty for leaving and the complexity of the transition logically reduces people's appetite and the operators are actually satisfied because they have to address the customer and take care of it only once every two years and not all the time. That is basically why we need these changes. We need to increase competition and we need to attract the fourth operator in order, of course, to improve the overall supply and thus the prices for people. This amendment is basically one of the three main steps that can now be done to reduce the prices of calls and data. The next two steps, i.e. the arrival of the fourth operator in the upcoming autumn auction of frequencies and regulation of wholesale prices, due to increased competitiveness of virtual operators, are already primarily in the hands of the Ministry and the Czech Telecommunications Office. If at least two of these three steps are effectively managed, we will be able to look forward to a significant increase in competition on the mobile market and finally better prices for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u7	Thank you. Mr Bláha came forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to take another look at the problem we are discussing today. Personally, I think we're going about this the wrong way, because it was said here - it was said here - our market is too small. Take how many banks we have here, but the banks will agree. And why don't you go over the bank's offer, see if any bank in the business environment can offer you something better? One can do it, the other can do something else, but in the end, you're in the same position, so you're in the same place. Look at bank cards and tearing down customer payment fees - 1.8 percent want all banks in the finals. Personally, I think that in this case we should take advantage of the fact that we are in Europe and try to make a European market for information technology, or electronic services. At that point, we have the opportunity to touch prices such as in Poland or other states. The moment we stay boarded up here, we really are for a potential businessman who should offer the service here significantly cheaper, uninteresting, because unlike the aforementioned Italy, the difference in the number of heads or phones is incredible. It's just to start looking at it a little differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u9	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Černohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u10	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to Mr Bláh. Those terminals, that's the problem with the fact that we basically have two monopolistic card suppliers, which is MasterCard and Visa. And they themselves set such charges that the margin that would potentially remain to banks is absolutely minimal. And that is precisely what they are trying to address in this law, that it will allow the fourth operator to open a window that will create a competitive environment. To be honest, our market, everyone makes excuses for being small, but there's enough room here to generate enough large profits that they make to their parent companies. So I'm sure there's room for us to have data here at better prices to get better services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u11	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u12	I thought I was just gonna sign up for the debate. I really need to respond to my colleague Bláha. It's not like that. If we compare it to how banking worked here 14 years ago, he took banking here, there really was no difference, and there was no chance of getting an account without paying. Today, after ten years, banks are the most profitable in Europe, yet since that peak, the collection of fees has fallen by seven billion. Seven billion. We have at least seven banks here that have an offer of a free account, and that means without any conditions, that the competition simply works and there may not be any price regulation. So it's not like that. As for the terminals, that's where, if I remember correctly, that's where five runs it, now actually six new banks. They're fighting for those clients, and even that's one of the things that is - if my colleague Bláha listened to me - that payment by card with a businessman is regulated: 0.2 per cent for debit cards, 0.3 per cent for credit cards. This means that this is one of the things where the European Union has embarked on the path of price regulation, and, of course, it has then shown itself, it has come out somewhere else. For example, that lost the benefits in terms of credit cards, etc. So it's all in moderation. Such a brief reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u13	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Milan Hnilička apologizes between 11 and 13 o'clock for reasons of work. Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes from 10 to 12 o'clock for work reasons. Real comment, Mr. Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u14	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm gonna try to explain this to you one more time. It really doesn't work that way. All the services, all the products that I buy in my business, so write down that 99 percent of my being from the Czech Republic makes me buy more expensive than they buy abroad, even though they have higher income, higher profitability, etc. It just is. Maybe this is the last time we did paper towels on our hands. So only the magazines in Germany I am able to buy cheaper than in the Czech Republic. And this way I can go from service to service: machines, equipment, energy, raw materials, all thanks to how small the market is, how sometimes even the more players on the market, the less they have the opportunity to make money, and therefore the services are also more expensive. So there's no higher competition in the case of our state. We're ten million, we're one bigger city in America! Try to think about it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u15	Thank you. We've dealt with factual points, I hope so, yes. And next up is Mr Valenta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, do not allow me, as the rapporteur of the last two amendments to the Electronic Communications Act in 2014 and 2017, to comment on this issue, at least in a framework with a few comments. I must honestly state that, of course, the government proposal presented can be welcomed, i.e. whether it is genuinely meant honestly. And if so, then it is indifferent to who brings it. Frogmyší, especially in a media-led way of war about who robs whom the electoral program or who comes up with the idea of improving the law on electronic communications, are only an awkward and unnecessary theatrical. I am referring, therefore, to the fact that we are now dealing with a number of very similar content, but somehow unnecessarily ideologically parallel-guided proposals. I am convinced that we are probably all motivated and led by the same attempt to reduce senselessly high prices of calls and mobile data in our country, but not all of us have the same chance that if we submit something, it will go through the legislative process to the end. [[Some Members debate loudly.]] Perhaps next time, it would not be from the point of view of opposition efforts, where there appears to be a significant intersection of content, to unite as it did, for example. the Digital Service Act. More specifically, this novel. For example, leaving the operator after three months after signing the contract without any financial penalty or changing it in two days is certainly commendable towards consumers, whoever puts it forward. Certainly some other proposed changes can also help the functionality and quality of the competitive environment. Unfortunately, there are not so many options where the disgruntled Czech customer can go. And the desperately awaited fourth operator will not help the situation, at least in my opinion, in a fundamental way. Let's not overreact. But they say it doesn't always have to rain, sometimes it just drips. Only the disruption of the existing oligopoly of three operators, as the Minister has also mentioned, is already more than necessary and necessary in our country. I personally have been criticizing this situation for several years. Unfortunately, I have always done so only from the opposition bench, so the real chance of change was small. I did not agree at the time with the former Minister of Finance, the ex-President of the Economic Committee and now Deputy at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Mr Ivan Pilný, with whom in 2017 the amendment of the same law took place in this very place. Today, however, the government is practically confirming my view of the necessary modification of the market environment in the field of electronic communications. Some might argue that oligopol operators have never been officially proven here, otherwise it would have to be done by law. To some extent, this is true, but the oligopolistic state of the market is very difficult to prove. In our case, however, it is possible to use e.g. analysis of the wholesale market for mobile services prepared by the Czech Telecommunications Office, which clearly demonstrates that the Czech Republic operates at least so-called. Tactical collegiate. This concept means that even though operators cannot be shown to agree on common strategies, they are still doing the same. But for example Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, respectively. The Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr. Očko, even explicitly confirms that oligopol is really here. And I add that it is therefore necessary to break it, especially in order to eliminate the damage to households by all-powerful operators, who purposefully strangle their data. As the previous rapporteur of the Electronic Communications Act, I criticized oligopol here in 2014, supported the entry of another operator, but the government was blind and deaf to this, and unfortunately, including then Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who is now in such a hurry, somewhat suspiciously, to improve the clearly bad conditions for our citizens. After all, there is something I would like to ask the Prime Minister in this regard if he were here, but he left, so at least virtually, and it will certainly be interpreted to him in some way afterwards. In particular, Prime Minister, are you referring to your activities to reduce the prices of calls and data transfer seriously, or is it just a kind of need of virtue and a crumb from the table forced by the disgruntled public, and also, last but not least, by the upcoming Euro-elections? Otherwise, why would Minister Nováková recall her Deputy Secretary Ondřej Malý last year, whom not only I, but also the professional public, have registered as a great promoter of data price cuts, and replaced him by Ivan Pilný, who said that the reduction of data was not his priority when he joined the office? Although I highly appreciate Mr Ivan Pilný, some of his remarks are probably not in their misleading complexity, and one of the most famous advice was about pensioners, as I'm sure you remember, who should go earn extra money on their low-income lawnmowers in parks. [[10.10 hours]] Each of us now feels confident that it has a certain desire to break free from the influence of at least competing operators, i.e. entities moving on an economically dysfunctional electronic communications market. During the last changes to this Act in 2017, when, for example, the ten-day deadline for the transmission of a telephone number for an indefinite period of time was passed, the operator's influence was still practically entirely subject. How else do you explain the fact that our government led by President Sobotka and also Minister of Finance Babiš proposed together those currently in force ten days, when the game was also much shorter, and the Czech Telecommunications Office even in Article 5 (1). 4 Measures of a general nature, PPE 10/10/2012, stated that the transmission of the telephone number should not last more than four days and added that the entire notice process would extend the period extending to two months. We had to wait two years for a change, or for a change that might be approved, maybe it will not be, and our citizens have come up with the incomprehensible laxity of this government from their pockets in the total sum of a few dozen, perhaps hundreds of millions of crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, you must know that the representatives of our executives have traditionally been very vocal about solving problems in the telecommunications area, but mostly only before the elections, then before the Houses, today before Europe, and then they are always holed up with partial and completely inadequate improvements to this law. In this context, I remember one humorous performance, when Minister Mládek expressed himself in 2017 that rooming is an elitist issue for 5% of the population. The then Minister of Finance Babiš responded in turn that the only elites Mládek has helped are his friends with operators who have served faithfully for three years. So, in this respect, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that now there is no minister serving the operators and that the hyper-high prices for calling and data in the Czech Republic will finally begin to do something really and constructively. I strongly underline the words "real and constructively." [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] As part of objectivity, I am also sadly concerned that these now proposed positive consumption changes, but so-called nudity, cannot be, nor are they, discussed with the relevant counterparty in a good way. It is something similar to when the Council of Europe is discussing Russia without Russia, it withdraws its voting rights, but its membership is still demanding. The last time in this year 2017 for the relevant Electronic Communications Act, substantial government proposals were not discussed either in inter-ministerial proceedings or discussed with the professional public, at least according to the letter from the ICT Union, which was publicly available. According to the letter from the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Association of Mobile Network Operators or the Czech Association of Electronic Communications, dated March 2017. And today, this situation seems very similar to me. I repeat again: why is there always an election waiting until the last moment? After all, it is a pity for all, for both providers and consumers, as their balanced relationship should be primarily concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised two factual points, first Mr Jiránek, then Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u18	Thank you. Three points to his predecessor very briefly. One. He's always before some election, and he's gonna be for years, so I wouldn't really worry about it here. Two. You commented that there were media fights about who introduced it and so on. I can say for myself that the evening after the press conferences, I said with a big, wide and enthusiastic smile that I didn't care who it was, as long as something was going on. And that's actually why I've now withdrawn another point in my previous speech so that we can only devote ourselves to one. And third of all, you said there wasn't gonna be a big change when the fourth operator came in, if I understood correctly. All I'm saying is that Ondřej Malý and I, too, have done my studies, so we both know that in every country where the fourth operator came, there have been major and significant changes, price levels have fallen. And just to break the oligopolis here, these changes are going to happen while the auction conditions are being prepared. [[The noise in the hall is still huge. Very poor hearing.]] Another thing, and you mentioned it well, that's the dance collage where there's a third chance to break an oligopolis, and that's through virtual operators, we both know that. And there I think that if the ČTÚ manages to communicate well with the European Union and enforces its interests, thanks to greater regulation of wholesale prices for virtual operators, they will finally be able to compete with them, even with the big threesome. Just to imagine, today virtual operators have a wholesale offer, from the existing threesome they buy for plus minus 200 CZK 1 GB of data, that means, of course, if they want to give some competitive offer for 10 GB, so only 10 GB of a person will have to pay for a virtual cost of CZK 2,000 and there is something to do about it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u19	Mr. Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I am very sorry for this contribution, which is not on the subject, but since my colleague Valenta here is mystifying us as an alternate in the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would just like to say that the Russian Federation is still a legitimate member of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, it still has all the rights there. On the basis of the Russian Federation's occupation of Crimea in violation of international law, their delegation only lost voting rights in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. However, with this contribution, of course, they have to pay because they have committed themselves to this as members of, in fact, both of these institutions. So please don't mix these two bodies of the Council of Europe. I will ask, through the President, my colleague, Valenta, as actually an alternate in the delegation, not to mystify and confuse concepts like this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u21	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Valenta still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to hold up any such a fight. I'm not set up here to keep taking tech and arguing about an analysis of one of my sentences. Of course I'm not wrong. Of course, I have been in the House much longer than Mr Kopřiva, I am Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs, I know what the Council of Europe is, I know what the institutions are. And on what I said here in that one sentence as an example, I'm standing up. But here we are not discussing the Council of Europe, if you have not missed it, my colleague, through the President. I know you have a wide range of knowledge, but save that for a completely different point. The rapporteur. You know, it's a little different from oligopoly. In case the oligopolis is officially recognized here, it would have to be handled legislatively. They would have to intervene by the competent authorities. But a dance collage is a fact, and I've described it here that operators act without any agreement, but they act the same way, so it's hard to attack them in any way. The arrival of the fourth operator, of course you know well that the transmission networks here are not unlimited, do not have unlimited capacity. The fourth operator will either have to build its own transmission system or eventually connect to existing three operators, so it will certainly pay some fees for it, it will not be small fees, and thus the competition on the market is decreasing again. My approach was more about opening up space for more operators than one, which I think would be natural. Of course, it also fell that the electronic communications market is small, it is limited, but I think that there are still some operators - it may not be as big as the existing three - that our business environment in the field of electronic communications would certainly be able to withstand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u23	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Jiránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u24	Only very briefly to expand the number of operators. Really, it doesn't make any sense to need six or seven operators to build their networks across the country. We already have over a hundred small virtual operators here, so let's just allow them to grow up with good conditions, and at the same time we have a lot of operators here. To be here, six, seven, eight big operators make no sense, because we would have six seven towers on each hill. And I've been communicating with experts, and I've been communicating with Ondra Malý, who told me exactly that four are, say, the ideal maximum number. Further expansion of the number of networks does not make sense. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u25	Thank you. At this point, it seems that we have exhausted the factual points. Next is Mr Nacher's debate. He's looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u26	Mr President, you are right. Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues, before I get to the heart of the matter, I would also like to respond briefly, as we have come here from the topic of the Electronic Communications Act to banking from my colleague Bláha or to the position of the Russian Federation from my colleague Valenta. It has nothing to do with it. Here I would say, and I didn't understand the contributions at all, because the principle of this is to increase flexibility, increase the flexibility of the market that is here today. If anybody calls it a cartel or a dance wheel, that's another thing now. But the fact that it's inflexible today is. And we want to make it bigger. And it is not only self-saving in itself, but it is also in connection with the arrival of the fourth operator, otherwise I would agree to some extent with my colleague Bláha, because if we had not changed the conditions, the arrival of the fourth operator would not have changed much, because, as has been said, at least 70 percent of people are bound to their contracts, so they cannot just move freely on the market, so the action radius would be very limited. But now to the point alone. I would like to thank my colleague Jiránek for downloading the 417 press, so we're going to talk about the government amendment, that is, the 420, which will be the bearer of all the changes I expect between the first and second readings. In the introduction, I would like to say a detail of the four proposals that have already been mentioned here, with the fact that I would put it in some context. All proposals aim to increase the flexibility of the market and the client's options, that is to say. one-stop-shop, it means the possibility to change the operator by visiting only the new selected one, which is based on the great experience of the banking sector - this is for colleague Bláh - where it works so called. The client's mobility code, where it has been very helpful, because the client is under tremendous pressure at the moment when the original service provider is still following it, and his energetic attitude to change the service supplier is disappearing and then it ends up staying with his original provider, whether it's a bank or an operator. The possibility that he would visit only the new one and he actually arranged the whole transfer, we think it will help in simplicity and that if the client is dissatisfied, whether in terms of price or other reason, he will go to the new operator. And for this existing operator, it means more care for all customers, not just the 10 percent who are able to compare prices and decide very energetically. As far as the fine goes, that's exactly the way to the fact that this guy's actually tied up there. Today, 20 percent is paid, as has been said, by businessmen 100 percent. This means that if he left two years ago, he has to pay for it, either 20 or 100 percent by the end of that period, which means that the person is actually pinned on there and flexibility is almost zero. That is the point of the proposal, in which we are a little different from what our fellow pirates have come up with. That means we're suggesting 5 percent in the first three months, that's because the first three months we can take it as if it were a test so that the person would have a commitment and pay for something after all, and after those three months to zero. If these contracts continue, that's another thing at this point. The important thing is that flexibility will increase. This is also related to extending protection to self-employed persons, or to the natural persons of an entrepreneur, natural persons engaged in business, who are currently paying 100 per cent. That's why. Shortening for two days again leads to making the journey fast, clear, dynamic, so that nothing gets longer and there is no time period when pressure is created on the client. All of this should create an environment that, in my opinion, will cultivate what is happening today, allow clients to change operators more often, or maybe threaten them and thus put pressure on the price that is actually higher in the Czech Republic than in most countries of the European Union. As I said, I see a certain parallel of the bank minus ten years, when the flexibility wasn't like that either, and the pressure of the clients, the mediation of the topic, which was happening here too, the situation gradually, it was running on a long track, changing and changing. And there is no need to create any price regulation. I would put this in the context of other pro-consumer measures, which may not only concern mobile data and mobile operators, where we want to strengthen consumer status in the long term; I will give, for example, the collective actions that await us, the strengthening of out-of-court dispute resolution, etc. There's no need to weaken the stronger side, in this case the operators. But because it's not true what my colleague Valenta said here, that it was discussed in a hurry, that it was not discussed and that the market doesn't count on it. Firstly, all four changes have been speculated on for some time because they are being offered directly to move them. So, of course, my colleagues and I have dealt with the association representing operators and individual operators. Despite the fact that the first reading is only today, there have already been two subcommittees dealing with it and where there are Members who understand it expertly, such as the ICT subcommittee and the Consumer Protection Sub-Committee. And we have some feedback that I have, in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and in agreement with the rapporteur here, allowed myself to create a comprehensive amendment that makes some of these things even more precise, precise, so that the measures are both effective and feasible. I'll talk about them first and foremost at second reading. At this point, I will only specify three basic or four basic points concerning the measures that we have proposed. As far as the one-stop-shop is concerned, we agreed, in agreement with the operators, that a participant's verification code should be created, so that the participant would be identified so that the visit to the new operator would actually be feasible, not to be on paper, de jure it worked, and de facto it was a problem. I'm going to specify the two-day cut, so that it doesn't happen that someone would want to end it on Saturday or Sunday, and it wouldn't happen. We will propose the effectiveness of the law so that it is from 1 January 2020. And the reason is clear: that all those involved, whether legislators or those who are now moving in the background, should be motivated to discuss this as quickly as possible, so that it really affects not only current customers and current three operators, but also the incoming fourth operator. In that case, I will suggest shortening the deadline to 30 days afterwards, so that there is enough time for operators to implement. But this way everyone will be motivated because everyone will know that from 1. 1. It should start working. [[10.30 hours]] The last such change to help, and it is also a bit of an answer to what my colleague Bláha was talking about, what I was talking about with some other Members, is the creation of such a comparative instrument, an independent calculator that is supposed to compare prices without, at the end of the day, leading to the purchase of the service, which he can always influence, and I think this benchmark tool would be positive for clients who can easily compare or easily compare the independent price of individual operators. I hope I didn't miss anything, shortening the deadline I said and looking forward to the debate at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u27	Thank you. The next one is entered in the debate by Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the ODS club's position. It is essential for us to allow citizens to move as quickly, as freely and as freely as possible from one operator to another, so that the market is more flexible. We see this in particular as a potential for increasing competition and the potential for simplification and motivation for the entry of a new operator into the market, which could finally bring about a cheaper price for mobile services and data, because frankly, and many previous speakers have already said this, there are no big differences between the offers and the prices of existing operators, but the fact that it can and can offer cheaper calls and cheaper data shows up to non-public offers that, for example, are gaining for themselves state institutions. We are pleased to have started discussions about the new operator and at the government level. You could say late, but still, and hopefully this time, it's gonna be okay, and it's not gonna end like always. Increase in competition, respectively. the potential to increase competition, the potential to reduce prices and the smaller ties of citizens to existing operators, that is why this proposal has our support, as well as the withdrawn proposal of the Pirates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u29	I thank Mr Munzar. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Before we continue to speak with Mr Luzar's factual remark, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 10 o'clock until the end of the day, the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes. Now, Mr Luzar, with a point of fact. You have two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond by your means to both my colleague Nacher and my colleague Munzar. He correctly used an example of a non-public and public offer. What we are currently dealing with is the area of public tenders, which means prices, when we are trying to increase competition by increasing the flexibility of exchange between service providers. But there's a non-public area where this is not going to have any significant influence. And of course, we all realize that the non-public part of the pricing of providers is the one that actually holds the public price upstairs, because somewhere those operators have to make money. And that's the basic thing where we should consider the motive that's here. So this is all we're dealing with right now is just to make the existing operator exchange system more flexible, that's a good thing, I support it, because if we're going to put the competition on the fourth operator, then obviously we should put forward the clear conditions that will and will work here in this country so that he can adapt. It can also happen that he doesn't come here because he figures it's not business for him. But I want to point out, and now I respond by your means to a colleague named Nacher, who said that there is no need for regulation and that he prefers to resort to this solution. I would like to point out here that this regulation is very necessary for non-public offers, and it is important from the point of view that the Czech Telecommunications Authority, which can carry out this regulation as the only one, has a very difficult way of showing the European Union, the European Commission, that it can implement that regulation. And he is now at a stage where the European Commission, as far as I know, has acknowledged that yes, the Czech market is not a market and is affected. Finally, after x years, the Czech Telecommunications Authority can start interfering in this space and correct the inequalities in competition. And if we say now--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u31	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. My colleague Dolínek will wait because I have two more factual points here - Mr Valenta and Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u32	Thank you for the floor. I really didn't want to react anymore, but I was provoked by a performance by Mr Nacher, who claimed that the comment procedure had taken place and was a standard one. Then the opposite is true. It was already approved by the government after that statement by Minister Nováková in an hour thirty-eight minutes. The entire legislative process of the government lasted an hour of thirty-eight minutes, and it happened on 17 March of this year. So I'm sure you'll understand for yourself and appreciate how much time has passed since mid-March so far, that basically nothing has been discussed. The pirát were rebelling against this process through the media. I'd like to quote a statement from the spokesperson, respectively. Vice-President of the Legislative Council of the Government of Mr Aleš Gerloch, who excuses this lack of inter-reviewed commentary procedure. He wrote: It went quite quickly. What's so standard in there? Everything is justified, it is only a partial modification which is of no major importance in terms of interference with individual resorts. As a result, there was a waiver of the comment procedure. So Mr. Nacher is wrong. Reminder proceedings have been pardoned, and some meeting on subcommittees certainly cannot replace this commentary procedure. And I say this as a four-year-old chair of the subcommittee on ICT, Industry and eGovernment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u33	I thank my colleague Valent for keeping time. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u34	Thank you. I have to respond to my colleagues - both of them from the Communist Party. This is where we spread such a mess. You make up something I said, and then you react to it. I didn't say either! I didn't even say I was against regulation. I said I was against price regulation. That's a big difference, and that's what I stand for. Because whenever some price regulation has been created in some competitive market, it will then turn against consumers quite clearly and indisputably. So I was talking about price regulation. We can think of this as, let's say, defining rules or regulation of a kind. First of all. And two. To a colleague of Valenta. I didn't say there was a standard reminder procedure. Let's listen to each other, please! I already told you. Or read lips. I didn't say that. Yes, it was quick. I was just saying that all these four measures, that they've been talking about them for months, maybe years, maybe it's nothing new, that they're things that directly encourage change, because, as has been said here, we may be the only country where 70 percent of people are bound, where the flexibility is very low. And it is not about the size of the market, because the cheaper prices are also in countries that are smaller than the Czech Republic. Yes, it was quick, but when the government sometimes works longer or slower, you criticize it. Now that it was quick and it was also in response, and that's what all the participants said, the words of the Minister of Industry, you're criticizing it again. We'll have plenty of time here, and as I say, whoever's on the subject knows there are some measures that can be made there that have logic and which are expected. But I didn't say there was a standard tender. I was there, so please don't put it in my mouth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Dolínek is alone. Mr Martin Jiránek, then Mr Leo Luzar, is now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u36	Thank you. Through Mr President to my colleague Luzar about the dance collage and the ČTÚ and the regulation. I would just like to make it really clear that the effort towards the European Commission is aimed at regulating wholesale offers for operators. It's not about public offers at all. On the contrary, even if it is not an ideal condition, the Czech Television is more positively in favour of those non-public offers, because it is one of the few places where competition actually works. So the ČTÚ wants to address the regulation of wholesale offers for virtual operators in the European Commission. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Leo Luzar's point of fact and then Mr Stanjura's point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u38	I thank my colleague Juránek. He said it for me. I just want to point out that a classic legislative process would expose all this. The opinions of both the ministries and the authorities concerned and the Czech Telecommunications Authority would simply be clear. [[Nesroz.]] This process does not have this, i.e. I expect this proposal to be read again, that we will come back here and that there will also be the position of the others concerned. For me, the Czech Telecommunications Authority is certainly important, which can clearly define it and say what it is, what it is not and how much it can do, even in a good effort, to damage the need for its actions, which it wants to do on its part to regulate the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u40	Thank you for the floor. With the opinion of our club, Mr. Munzar spoke. However, I would like to draw our attention actually to the same debate that took place in 2017. At the time, we adopted a bill that shortened the time of transmission from thirty to ten days and increased the possible fines of the Czech Television or operators in a strong way. And we were actually saying the same thing we're saying today. That it is the right step, userly, for the user the right step, but that will not solve the problem in principle. Remember those headlines that the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister then said: in the fall, there will be a data spring. That was in 2017. It turned out that the move was in the right direction, but that was simply not enough to change the market situation. At this point, it is obvious that the only thing that can help is the increase in competition, and that is the entry of another operator. And it will matter terribly what conditions the state will create for the operator to enter. That should be thought of by those who prepare the conditions. The debate about whether or not the fines should go up sharply today turns out she was actually useless. So let's see what happened to the ČTÚ in 2017. Whether he did or he didn't, and what fines he might have given. I feel that today, many face that we will approve this bill - and I say, with the positive position of our club, Mr Munzar has spoken - and is resolved. Well, it won't be like that. We will solve some of the partials in favour of users and clients, that is perfectly fine, but for a rapid change in the market, it is simply not enough. The key question is what are the conditions for entering a new operator, and there we should focus the debate, for example on the Economic Committee or somewhere. And to have a really serious, serious political debate about this. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u41	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Patrik Nacher. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u42	My colleague Stanjura is partly right. Coming or increasing competition will help. But, of course, the 2017 measure also helped. When you look at the development of mobile data prices, there is a significant decline between 2016 and 2018. It is, not that it isn't. People really pay less. The question is, what base? Of course the drop is bigger, because the base is higher. But that there was a drop and that it had an effect, it certainly did. Likewise, we expect that these measures will indisputably affect the pressure to reduce the price and the pressure to increase the competitive struggle for the customer. But, of course, you're right that even the expansion of competition has an impact, and what conditions the fourth operator will have. I'm looking forward to the debate. And it is, of course, at the Czech Telecommunications Authority, how to set the rules of national roaming for the fourth operator. Let's talk about this in parallel. That, of course, has something to do with it. But these measures do not have any or little influence. On the contrary, I expect it to have an effect. At least it's in that public space. that we're talking about it so intensely and we're going to talk about the three readings, even for those customers, there's some sort of impulse for those consumers to see how much they pay, try to negotiate better terms and things like that. So sometimes she and the public debate kicks in what we sometimes want to put into the law. And before that, I'm here - I don't know if I said right, I don't want to wait for the screen recording - I meant standard commentary. I might have said a standard tender or something. I meant standard commentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual remark from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. And still registered colleague Petr Dolínek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u44	A moment ago, a colleague named Nacher complained about another colleague that... He protested something, he didn't say, and immediately he did the same thing. I didn't say that the 2017 law didn't have a positive influence. I just said he didn't have the major influence. So what Mr. Nacher said, I'd sign. At the same time, he says he doesn't agree with me. I didn't say anything like that. [[Ambassador Nacher is objecting.]] No, you said I was partly right, but it's true that the law brought some improvement. But I agree with that. And I didn't say it didn't. I just said it didn't make a major improvement, that's what I insist. That the data spring didn't come as promised before the elections in 2016 by both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. It just didn't come. But I agree that there has been a certain price reduction and that this is correct. Just so we understand each other. So the exact same political figure was made by Mr Nacher, who he had complained about earlier. He criticized something I didn't say. So I wanted to make it clear that I really agree with Mr Nacher's last point of fact and we are not in dispute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u45	Thank you for keeping time. And so we can end with factual remarks. Mr. Petr Dolínek is on the list. At this point, the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u46	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, and social democracy, of course, support those proposals which make services more friendly, more enjoyable and affordable for the end client. However, I, of course, will say what many colleagues say in this case, and that is that this is only one of the partial solutions. It's not a solution to the whole problem, the whole state. It is just one of the many steps that need to be done to make sure that there is an end client, a student, a senior, any partner for the operator. And a partner who doesn't have to threaten to terminate a contract every half a year to offer him better terms, but to be a partner, as is the case with a mandatory liability, when every year it is normal that when his car's value is reduced, he is insured to a lower amount. The analogy is remote, but to make it normal that even in a normal contractual relationship prices are reduced and those contractual terms are corrected so that they are beneficial for the client and not for the provider. For this reason, I can say that social democracy has long sought to put an end to the special thing here, which is that banks have the greatest profits here, that food quality is not the same here as abroad, and that operators sometimes have so-called operators, one can say, until clondike versus ordinary consumer, who has to use data services. Remember, we're not talking about something you can have, but basically, what we have to have, each and every one of us. See how he orders to the doctor, see how they now order lunches in school dining rooms, see how the Ministry of the Interior plans to make communication more flexible, to make it digital. Digitisation of government, self-government, we all want it to be at a far higher level than it is now. That means we're not talking about something that's luxurious, but something that we have to have. That is why social democracy will support this law. We will also be very intensively discussing his comprehensive amendment with Mr Nacher to find out what is in it. Alternatively, we would add some of the partial items. But I would like to ask here that the new incoming minister - and we are, of course, discussing this within the coalition, but there is a need for this contribution to be here out loud in plenary - to have this as one of his absolute priorities and, in the first hours after his accession, to start working on such changes, which will be comprehensive, which will lead to client protection and which will be discussed here during this parliamentary term. The last thing that needs to be mentioned, of course, is that we cannot substitute the work of ministries on subcommittees and committees, and that is why it must be taken that the amendments are the ones to help, but we will not solve this ourselves for the administration, and they must always prepare it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u47	I thank Mr Petr Dolínek. Now in the debate, Mr Martin Jiránek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u48	Thank you. Well, just in time to comply with the organizational request. I should say exactly - according to § 86 para. 6 on behalf of the plaintiffs, I take back the 417 House press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u49	Thank you. I have no further application for a debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary is not interested, the rapporteur is interested. Please, rapporteur, the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u50	Very fast again. I think the debate was factual and constructive. And please note that there is a proposal to shorten the negotiations to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-002-027.u51	Yes, we will vote in the debate. But first, we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion, because there was no proposal for a return or rejection. First, the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. We will decide that the guarantee committee will be the economic committee, in the vote number 104, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 104 from the presence 174 for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Economic Affairs as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone else have a proposal for another committee? It's not like that. We can therefore still vote on the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion between first and second reading to 30 days. We will decide in the vote number 105, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 105 from 176 for 151 Members present, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been directed to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. I thank the Minister of Finance and thank the rapporteur. I'm done with point 28. Given the petitioner's statement, point 28 was downloaded at first reading, so we will proceed directly with point 29. Point 29 is
