ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u1	139. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production as revised (Rotterdam, 30. 1. 2017) /house print 294/ - first reading I ask that the opening words be given by the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk, and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková will be prepared. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, let me briefly present to you the proposal for a Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production, which revises the wording of the 1992 original Convention. The revised Convention was opened for signature to the Member States in Rotterdam on 30 January 2017 and has been signed by more than twenty Member States of the original Convention at present. The adoption of the revised version of the Convention does not constitute any public budget entitlement. The document is methodical in relation to the conclusion of co-production relations between producers from the countries of the Council of Europe. The main objective of the Convention is to facilitate the conclusion of international film co-productions, i.e. to enable the creation of European films, which are produced by several co-production countries in view of their financial complexity, and at the same time not to lose the opportunity to obtain support from other, in particular national aid schemes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the Minister can express himself. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u4	In addition to the benefits of financing, films made in co-production have a much better chance of getting into international distribution and attracting more spectators. The revised version of the Convention responds to the development of new technologies that have transformed the way films are produced, distributed and made available and to the development of public funding at national and regional level. At the same time, a legal framework is created for full participation in future film works and for smaller co-producers. The revised Convention brings only changes in the procedural nature and does not substantially affect the objectives of the original Convention. The Czech Republic has been a member of the original Convention since 1997 and will not be subject to any other obligations requiring legislative changes by negotiating the revised Convention. As has already been said, there will be no additional claims on funds from the state budget or public funds. The implementation of the Convention is entrusted to the State Cinematography Fund in the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and for your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u5	Thank you, Minister for the opening statement. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Czech Republic has been a member of the Council of Europe since 30 June 1993 and since its accession has been actively involved in the implementation of the mission and objectives of this organisation, consisting in the creation of a common democratic and legal area which retains respect for human rights, democracy and respect for laws. The Council of Europe covers all the important issues dealt with by European society, and its work programme includes, inter alia, activities in the field of culture. The European Convention on Film Co-production forms a fundamental legal framework for the implementation of international film co-productions among its signatories. The main objective of this Convention is to promote cooperation between the Parties by introducing provisions on minimum standards in order to facilitate the financing of the production and production of international film co-productions. The revised Convention sets out the shares of co-producers. Maximum 80 per cent and at least 5 per cent for multilateral co-productions and 90 and 10 for bilateral co-productions. The reduction of these percentages was mainly due to the fact that participation in international co-productions, in particular with higher and high budgets, was practically prevented from being set up for smaller Member States and thus the new Convention creates a legal framework for full participation in future film works and smaller co-producers. When signing the revised Convention for the Czech Republic, it shall be in accordance with Article 5 (1). 5 of the Convention has made a declaration that the State Cinematography Fund remains the authority responsible for approving applications for co-production status. With the adoption of the revised Convention, there will be no additional claims on funds from the State budget, respectively. it will have no impact on public funds. Through the Convention with a uniform legal framework, the procedures and parameters are defined so that works which are not 100% national by their financing and artistic participation can, through their producers, have the same access to support from state resources as national works. However, the Convention does not give rise to the applicant's right to grant a subsidy. That is, on my part, the intelligence report regarding this convention. And I would like to recommend the House Press 294 to the Foreign Committee as a guarantee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-024-139.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am not registering an application at the moment. I do not register an application or visually, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. The Minister, the rapporteur? You're not interested. That way, we will now consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. He doesn't. So I'm gonna go on, call the honourable Members and Members to the ballroom... [[Gong.]] And we're going to the vote. So who's in favour of the motion being made being ordered to discuss the foreign committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 250, 163 Members registered, for 140, versus zero, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. This concludes the discussion of this point for the moment. The next item is
