ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-000-000.u1	Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. I start another meeting on the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. I say that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting... [[Here comes Mr. Pražák with a replacement card.]] ... yes, Mr. Pražák has a replacement card number 12. One request so far. I say that for apologizing for not attending today's meeting these Members asked: Vondráček Radka Helena Maxová, Balaštíková Margita Pastuchová Jana, Bartoš Ivan foreign trip, Benešík Ondřej within 13 hours without giving reason, Blaha Stanislav personal Zdeněk, Blažek Pavel personal reasons, Brázdil Milan health reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav Třešňák Petr, Fiala Radim personal reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav from 11.30 to 14 hours Jiří ValentaPodal Hájek Josef žáček Vlastimil, Holomčík Radek health reasons, Hyťhová Tereza personal reasons, Jarošová Monika within 10 hours working reasons, Jurečka Marian Němcová Valenta, Kobza Jiří foreign trip, Kohoutek Jiří foreign Ratiborský, Jan Jiří foreign Kubík road, Koten Radek within 10 hours of health reasons, Krajíček králíček Robert foreign trip, Schwarzenberg Karel personal reasons, Kubíček Roman 9.30 to 11 hours health reasons, 11 Michal travel, foreign travel Kupka Mirá Hourcka Hournecka Hournecka Hournek. And further apologize to members of the government: Babiš Andrej foreign trip, Hamáček Jan within 12 hours working reasons, Kremlík Vladimír working reasons, Metnar Lubomír within 15 hours working reasons, Plaga Robert working reasons, Toman Miroslav foreign trip. Vice-President of the House Tomáš Hanzel replacement card number 11. - Member Jaroslav Holík from 12 a.m. to 13 p.m. working reasons. Mr. Jiří Mihola apologizes to me here for the whole working day. And she also apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Jana Levová. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 217, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. In the event that we close this point before 11 o'clock, I would like to emphasise and point out that we would continue to do so immediately on the basis of the valid resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1342 from the fourth parliamentary term, and we would continue with paragraph 18, House press number 164, state account for 2017 it is also point 16, House press 302, medicines, second reading, and paragraph 207, unpaid businesses, with an additional fixed item 216 on food quality at 11 o'clock. The premises for Members to speak to amend the approved agenda for this meeting shall be maintained. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. Now let me welcome the new ministers. I see we have three new ministers here. But now I'm looking at which one of them is here to welcome them. Minister of Trade and Industry Karel Havlíček is not present here, Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík is not present either. So we'll welcome Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary, we welcome you here. [[Let's hear it.]] We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
