ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u1	98. Proposal by Members Patrik Nacher, Robert Králíček, Marek Novák, Petr Venhoda, Tomáš Kohoutek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German Press 320/ - First Reading We received the Government's position as House Press 320/1. [[Noise in the hall.]] I prosit that Mr Patrik Nacher present the proposal for the appellants. And I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. Thank you and I will ask Mr Patrik Nacher to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'm glad we got to this point after a year. I will make this very brief and assume some more professional debate at second reading. We talked about this twice on the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection, so that's where it's discussed. Even on the basis of the response, the Government's position, along with colleague Helena Válka and colleague Fridrich, we have made an amendment to simplify the proposal. What's going on? Today, as you probably know, people can turn to an out-of-court body, which is a financial arbitrary, Energy Regulatory Office, Czech Telecommunications Office. In case the consumer loses, he usually doesn't appeal. That's practice. Therefore, he also asks the out-of-court authority not to go to the court after that. However, given that, or in a situation where he wins, the company in question will mostly take advantage of all legal steps and possibilities, i.e., he will appeal to the court. And then there's this moment that we want to deal with here because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u3	Copy that. I would ask Members on both the left and right sides of the Chamber to keep their voice down so that we can discuss this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u4	So the moment the consumer wins at that out-of-court body, the company turns to court. And at that point, the moment that the court isn't sued by the institution that decided, in this case, the financial arbiter, isn't the classic one, the administrative decision of the administration and the appeal against it, but the defendant is the consumer. And in practice, there's a situation where the consumer gets a trial that starts from the very beginning, and the out-of-court authority doesn't even have information about the case being brought to trial. And all we want to do with this little change is to keep that out-of-court body informed about it, as you can see from the press. [[17.40 hours]] That means I'd rather read it here. It shall invite it to notify the court within a specified time limit whether it will exercise the rights under the second sentence in the proceedings. There is no other way to exercise rights in proceedings. The administrative authority may submit written observations in the proceedings, consult the file, be informed of the conduct ordered and request that it be given the floor at the hearing. However, he is always served with a decision on the substance or other decision ending the proceedings before the court. For appeal proceedings, the first to third sentences shall apply mutatis mutandis. In other words, the out-of-court authority will actually find out about this, and it may be before the court, because he remains independent, explaining his decision to take on the consumer's side at the time. In fact, if we don't change this, there's a little bit of an out-of-court dispute settlement system where a person in a desire to find justice turns to an out-of-court body, like in financial matters to a financial arbiter, doesn't have to pay a court fee, he doesn't have to hire a lawyer or anything, the financial arbiter decides in his favor, he gets to court anyway, and the moment that the financial arbiter doesn't know about the court, the consumer is there all by himself, like naked in thorns, and basically the advantage becomes a disadvantage. So it is just this one small thing consulted with the Ministry of Justice and we have also come to this government opinion in paragraph 4, where it says that from a legislative technical point of view, the government points out that the proposal contains an unnecessary negative list of rights, etc. We changed all that in the changeling then. So I would like to ask you for your support and for the more thorough debate that we had, for example, with my colleague Leo Luzar on the subcommittee, and I think that we have clarified all the things and situations that may theoretically occur there. I thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u5	Thank you. I will now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The relevant press has been sent to you under number 320 and introduced by my colleague Nacher. It is a decision on matters falling under the fifth Civil Procedure Code, as has already been said here. It was partly transferred to the administrative authorities in particular because of their narrow specialisation. So I think that what Mr Nacher said is enough, and I see no reason to go on discussing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u7	Thank you, and at this point I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Dominik Feri has come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u8	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sum up a bit and say add to the context of this proposal. Indeed, it would seem that this is a very small regulation, a few words in the case of proceedings, which seem actually clear, and in the case of proceedings, which may somehow resemble proceedings before an administrative court. I mean, there's a party here, there's some administrative authority that makes a binding decision on a particular matter about public or private subjective law, and there's a court. But the two proceedings - the proceedings under Part Five and the administrative procedure are completely different. And I will try very briefly to explain why that is. While the proceedings before the financial arbiter have been mentioned, there are two individuals of private law, a natural person against a legal person, and the administrative authority is acting as an independent third. Really like some quasi-court authority. And then in the next trial... [[A silence for a big noise. - Sorry. Please.]] And then in the next trial, he doesn't have much to do in my opinion. For what reason? Take it that you're suing for a plot of land by some kind of lawsuit, you're going to appeal against the court's decision, and then that first-rate court should in any way give an opinion to another court of appeal? No. The persuasion of the decision must be based on a justification. There is no need for the court, or the arbiter, to justify it further in this case. While the situation within the administrative justice system is completely different. If the administrative authority decides in Highnessensky on any of your matters by some administrative decision, then it is perfectly logical that it acts in a completely different, enhanced position, in the position of a participant, in the position of the defendant, if you bring an administrative action before the Regional Court. That's where it makes sense. This means that, for some reason, we are actually bringing someone who is impartial into the process, and I understand that he can express himself or that he should express himself that it would be appropriate for him to express himself, but this is already being made out of an effective regulation, because he will allow him to comment in writing on the action. That's what's going on today, and there's no need to expand his authority in any way and force him to continue to take part in the proceedings, just as there is absolutely no need for it, and the government mentioned it, and Patrik mentioned that he would then deal with the amendment, why to convict the financial arbiter - for example, the financial arbiter, simply someone who made the decision in the previous proceedings to do the compositional actions. He's not even a party to the proceedings. He can't do anything. Why should this be explicitly stated in the law? Just like the fact that a court has to deal with why it decides otherwise. This can be done by a systematic interpretation. That means I'm not really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u9	I'd like you to calm down a little bit. I don't think the noise level is quite standard again, but it's disturbing the Member, so I'm gonna ask for peace of mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u10	It disturbs me, but it certainly doesn't offend me, because there are no debates or lectures at our law school about reviewing administrative decisions. I totally get it. It's a very specific thing. But what we have to say right now is whether it brings something, and if we are not creating a new, parallel system within the Czech judicial system or a system of decision-making in these matters, because we have an administrative justice system, we have here when - why is that part of the fifth? For a simple reason. Because the state said, there are some disputes here, for example, from loans atp. Or the Czech Telecommunications Authority. This is a very specific agenda, very mechanical, some underpayments to the operator or something. So let's delegate it to some administrative authority, judges are just expensive, court decisions. It's very practical. If I recall, last year the current Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mazanec, gave a lecture precisely because he criticized that part of the fifth was released in the proposal, in the substantive intention of the civil order of the court. He said the following: I suspect it is 80,000 disputes a year with the Czech Television, and all this would fall on the general courts if they were to decide. So let's let some specialized authority decide. So that's why. There's a point. But why here de facto create some other system between one that is neither administrative justice nor the pure management according to Part Five. If we're unhappy with the results according to Part Five, we can cancel it and we can really move it to the general courts. I'm certainly not going to propose a refusal or a return to work, because it seems to me that this debate should take place here, just because the future of Part Five is still quite a question. It is not known whether it will remain in the future civil process, or it will not be preserved in the future civil process, but if I reach out to some civilians or processists and they tell me, then this is a much bigger change than it might seem, and it has very fundamental consequences, so it is considered. After all, the government also mentions this in the government's decision. What I think is most crucial is that we attribute an organ to a different role than it should be. The idea that the first-rate court in the appeal court would have had the opportunity to speak, that the judge would come in and say, "I made the decision this way, because... and somehow he would have dealt with the facts, so that would probably be a bad judge. A good judge decides that the decision is convincing. Even part of the Czech judges, the chairmen of the regional courts, even says that it seems too ambitious that these decisions are not to be justified at all, because when they make the right decisions, they are simply convincing. And all of a sudden, we're turning this financial arbiter into someone who's unable to justify his decision with dignity and sufficient authority, and then he has to be involved in the next trial before the general court according to Part Five. It's a high-tech thing. And have a nice holiday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u11	Thank you. I will read the apology before I give the floor to Mr Patrik Nacher. Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today between 18.15 and 19.00 for reasons of work, and Mr Martin Kolovratník cancels his apology, is present. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u12	So a few more words, not just to a colleague of Dominik Feri, but to make it very clear. Why are those out-of-court authorities anyway? These are because we have the position of consumers in court - it takes a long time, it is costly, the result is unpredictable. The moment, in these matters, in telecommunications, they turn to the ČTÚ, in the field of energy at the ERO, in the area of finance for the financial arbitrary, so in terms of its professional background, expertise is expected not only the result quickly, much cheaper, but that it will say - I don't know how to say it now - given the everyday activity that the out-of-court authority has, that it only deals with the narrow profile issue, so it will be a more respected result, let's say. However, I understand, of course, that those companies will later take advantage of the possibility of suing, disrespecting the result and bringing it back to trial. And then we get into this paradoxical situation, and that's the paradox that we have out-of-court bodies here to improve the consumer's position, they're supposed to speed up, they're going to lower it, and they're going to defuse the courts, like because of some back-up dispute, and suddenly we're going to get to that court anyway, but suddenly the consumer's in that position is worse because, as has already been said, I'm going to quote from the explanatory report: Since in the proceedings under Part Five of the Code of Civil Procedure, it's not a classic review of administrative decisions as in administrative justice, it's not a place for the administrative authority to be a party to the proceedings. The consumer is being sued. Logic would be, what Dominik Feri says if the financial arbiter were sued and then he would defend why he decided what he decided. But suddenly the participant, the consumer, is being sued. The essence of the decision-making according to Part Five of the SEC is that the court will renegotiate the matter. There it begins again, and if it reaches a conclusion other than that of the administrative authority, it shall decide on the same matter. Nevertheless, it would be appropriate that the position of the administrative authority be strengthened and, at the same time, the court is obliged to deal with its decision in some way, because otherwise it puts the principle of the use of the out-of-court authority and the out-of-court settlement of the disputes on its head. Nothing more, nothing less. There are cases today, and ask the financial arbiter's institute about it, that it'll just go to trial, and the financial arbiter doesn't even know about it. We were careful not to go anywhere, that he was a minor or something, because the criticism on the subcommittee was heard and there was a criticism of what Dominik Feri was talking about. I think that we have dealt with this amendment, and it is nothing more than that the out-of-court authority can look into it in a court of law and express itself in order to know at all. In practice, he doesn't know, and suddenly the consumer is in an extremely disadvantageous position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Dominik Feri. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u14	As far as consumer protection is concerned, I agree that the financial arbiter should definitely know. I definitely agree, too, or I think it would be right for him to express himself more than just once in writing to the court, if the court can fix him with a letter. But it's a little weird when we say that the consumer is protected from the financial arbiter when he's supposed to act as an independent third, and then we're actually gonna drag him into the trial before the general court on part five, and we're actually gonna say, like, yeah, you're an independent, financial arbiter, but maybe you could tell us something about that consumer, for the benefit of the consumer. If I bring it back to the general management, imagine suing some company, a huge corporation, for damages. The first-rate court will decide somehow, the claim will not admit to you, and then you will appeal, and according to the logic of the motion here, the judge who decided at first instance should go to the appeal court and actually say something like - well, he's the smaller one, he's the weaker party, and we should... and describe the facts a little bit. I understand where this proposal is going, which is why I'm not returning it either, but I think there's still a lot of work to be done on it, but we can handle it in the constitutional law committee. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u15	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda will make a point of fact. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u16	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we are all relatively tired. I kind of warned Patrik that she wasn't exactly a trivial novel, as she promised us here. It's not as simple as he describes it. Of course, in the vast majority of cases, if they're talking about the corporation, if they're not talking about the individuals, then of course they don't go to court because of that one story, they don't really care. There goes, if for something, so for some precedental decision, if they feel that the previous quasi-government authorities are making the wrong decision in some way. So it's much more complicated than it's described here by Patrik in his enthusiastic consumer protection. Poor consumer against evil big corporations. It always sounds so nice, but the story is a little more complicated. However, I do not propose a rejection, we will try to find a way to get this done in the constitutional and legal committee. It's just that I get up at second reading and I tell you: we haven't succeeded, let's reject it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u17	Thank you. I have no one enrolled in the general debate. Let me see, I don't see anybody, so I'm ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in any final words. Not interested. Yes, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u18	I just want to say that I support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-010-098.u19	So cool. I will read an apology - Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologises from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone. So I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of this press being directed to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee? Who's against it? In the vote order number 406 entered 158 Members and Members, for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? I don't see anyone, so they won't be assigned to any other committees. I note that we have dealt with this press at first reading, and I thank the rapporteur, thank you. We're going to go to the next point and that's
