ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-038-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. President Bartoš votes with vote card number 8. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 56 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 1 November of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member Jana Krutáková and a Member of Stanislav Berkovec. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If this is not the case, I have taken a vote on the minutes' verifiers. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 1, registered 117 Members and Members, for 116. [[No one.]] The motion was accepted. I note that we are the verifiers of the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies appointed by Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. Ivan Adamec - working grounds, Margita Balaštíková - health reasons, Jan Bartošek from 9 to 12 hours - health reasons, Jiří Běhounek - family reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek from 11.15 hours - personal reasons, Petr Bendl - working reasons, Jan Birke without giving reason, Jiří Bláha - working reasons, Jana Černochová - working reasons, Petr Dolínek - foreign travel, Jaroslav Dvořák - health reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna - medical Lubomír, Pavla Golasowská - health reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček from 11 to 14 hours - working Vácha, Radek Holomčík from 9 to 9.40 - personal Vyzula - health reasons, Jan Hrnčíř - foreign trip, Stanislav Juránek - health reasons, Jana Levová - health reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk - health reasons, Marie Pěnčíková - health Volný - health reasons - health Výborný - health reasons - health reasons - health reasons, Jan Sluchler reasons - health Svoboda - health reasons - health Volný - health reasons - health reasons - health Marek, Bohuslav Slavášek - health Rostislav - health reasons - health reasons. Members of the government: Andrej Babiš - foreign travel, Vladimír Kremlík - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar from 9 am to 14 pm - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - foreign travel, Miroslav Toman - foreign travel, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. Monika Červíčková between 9.00 and 9.30 apology, Mr Lukáš Kolářík from the whole meeting for family reasons, Mr Vít Kaňkovský from 9 to 9.45 due to traffic complications. We should now proceed to the establishment of the 38th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. Since the House Press 490 has already been discussed at the 35th meeting on Wednesday, 6 November of this year, this single item in the proposal for the 38th meeting has become unnegotiable. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I remind you that at 9.15 a.m., 36 meetings will be held, as this was decided by the Chamber of Deputies on Wednesday, 6 November of this year. Thank you. By 9:15, it's over. We start at 9:15.
