ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended /German press 205/8/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered to us as a House press of 205/9. I welcome Senator Herbert Pavera, who has already taken up a position at the rapporteur's table, and I ask that the Senate's resolution and the rejection of this bill be expressed as Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. [[Secretary Schiller is wondering if she should go to the speaker's desk.]] Madam Vice-President of the Government, I gave you my word because you need to comment on the Senate resolution. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, good day after the holidays. Let me briefly mention the draft law amending the Sales Recording Act and the Value Added Tax Act. The electronic record of sales was launched on 1 December 2016 as a logical response to public demand for a systemic solution to the issue of unconfessed sales, which according to Czech Statistical Office numbers reached a dizzy 160 billion crowns per year. 160 billion! More than twice the state budget deficit at the time. I confess that in preparing the architecture of electronic sales records at the Ministry of Finance sometime in 2014, none of my colleagues even dreamed of becoming a sovereign policy. Indeed, thanks to EET, the Czech Republic has ranked among nearly two dozen countries in Europe, which use one form of sales log. The government listened to the wishes of three-quarters of the population of our country, according to which it was an acute duty of the state to look for ways to improve tax morale. The government has also heard the wishes of 60 percent of Czech companies, which clearly declared that they consider the grey economy a real problem that threatens their own business. Perhaps in those three years, during which we in the Czech Republic managed to conjure up wonders not the main apple of the conflict of political discussions about our economic-political direction and worldview, we have completely forgotten the basic reasons behind which EET was created. But those researches that demonstrate the alarming dissatisfaction of the public with the fact that over two decades, billions of tax dollars have eluded the state... And instead of taking action, its competent officials bailed out the reprehensible and in the elections, by punishing the rise in tax rates. The research is still here - STEM, KPMG. They're traceable on the Internet, and they're serious. And if you don't believe in research, then hopefully you believe in your own memories. And if you free yourself from the absurd, or rather pathetic, slandering - the one about the spying tunnel, the one about the instrument of liquidation of competition by Andrej Babiš, the one about the frontal attack on business - perhaps you could remember with which powerlessness our public has had to receive reports of VAT increases for many years and with what helplessness it has watched hundreds of millions of crowns fleeing every day, such as unconfessed sales, because government officials have been completely indifferent to any systemic solution to the country's obvious problems. And logically, those who have been indifferent for years today to apologize for their inaction are torpedoing all the measures that have finally led to tax collection. And look where that indifference led. See how the reduced VAT rate on food, medicines, aqueous, wicker, heat grew. From 5% to 15 percent, to three times. I understand that there must be arguments all over the place, because haunting the queues has not been confirmed. Everyone in this country knows that now. Business decimation hasn't been confirmed. All the numbers about the numbers of trades have been breaking it down uncompromisingly in the long run. Nothing was confirmed at all. We have created disproportionate policies from the EET, and today should once again be nothing more than another sad celebration of this policy. Politics as cut out from the contour of the reasoning of an important American economist I dare quote. He is the Nobelův Prize winner for economics Robert Shiller, who came to know in a 2016 interview for Die Zeit - and now I quote: "Too much morality one cannot afford, otherwise one will be swept away by the merciless power of capitalism. Only those who are willing to cheat can survive from his point of view, while cheating individuals themselves are not immoral, only respond to reality as it is. They need to make money in the first place and face tough competition." Shiller believes: "If someone is fooling others, you must do so too, and capitalism therefore promotes fraud if you do not regulate it. Once you talk about the need to regulate capitalism, the advocates of liberalism say that regulated capitalism is actually socialism and it is inadmissible in our society." That's the end of the quote. So nothing new under the sun. Please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you to put an end to this. Let this show be his derniere. There is no reason to leave the remaining segments outside the EET and there is no reason to cancel the EET. From the outset, the EET was designed as an area measure with the basic objective of aligning the business environment in this country and, as such, it immediately earned strong and clear support for all relevant business and trade unions and associations. This support does not fall, but it grows, as it does not fall, but public support grows. Of 63 percent in May 2016 to almost 70 percent in October 2018. Why? I would therefore say that while the untruths about the EET appear to be wrong in all their nakedness, the goals of the EET are being met. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to approve the bill as previously approved by the Chamber of Deputies. You will thus allow the successful reform to be completed, the main objective of the settlement of the business environment, and you will say yes to a further significant reduction in the tax burden in the Czech Republic through the related amendment to the VAT Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please let Senator Herbert Pavera take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Have a nice evening. Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, folks - no, there are no other members of the government. So, nice colleagues, nice colleagues. I'm not gonna respond to the secretary, what she said here, and I'm just gonna say what we approved and discussed in the Senate. The Senate has discussed the bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Records of Sales, and No. 254/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, at its 10th meeting on 25 July 2019. In its resolution, the Constitutional Committee proposed to approve the draft, as it was tabled, by a single vote difference, and the Guarantee Economic Committee then recommended to the plenary to approve it with amendments. I do not want to burden you with the amendments, but perhaps it would be good to hear them here, so that you know what was discussed in the Senate. The amendment of Senator Tomáš Golán, Lukáš Wagenknecht and Lumír Aschenbrenner. They were proposing to abolish the entire 112 Act on the record of sales. This proposal was not accepted - with the difference of one voice. The amendment of the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport - there was the aim of the proposal, which I also proposed, extending the limit for the special EET regime from CZK 600,000 to CZK 1 million, removing from the records of sales of entrepreneurs and companies with annual revenues up to CZK 1 million and income from the operation of growers' brandies. The burns are already registered differently. This proposal was not accepted either. Then the motion of Senator Pavel Stohl was voted. The essence of his proposal was the removal of small businessmen who did not receive more than CZK 500,000 in the previous year. The proposal wasn't even accepted. Then Senator Ivo Valenta proposed his amendment. Its aim was to exclude from the EET all secondary business activities of publicly beneficial taxpayers, such as associations and similar organisations, for which the annual amount of income that is relevant for the determination of income tax did not exceed CZK 1 million during the last current tax period. Nor has this proposal been adopted. These proposals were not adopted for one simple reason - because then there was agreement to reject the amendment. But there was also a proposal from Senator Zdeněk Hraba. The aim of the proposal was to exempt cultural festivals from the obligation to register electronic sales. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The rejection of the amendment under vote number fifty-nine in favour 34 was in favour of the rejection of 47 senators, against 15, 15 senators were absent and 4 abstained. Now let me also see why the senát rejected the amendment. I will use some of the arguments put forward by my colleagues during the hearing. At the beginning of the justification, I would just like to make a small comment on the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, which is, however, closely related to the electronic record itself. On the one hand, the government says that the EET helps with tax collection, of course it completely rejects the fact that higher tax collection is not just due to EET. According to many experts, increased VAT and taxes are mainly due to natural economic growth. On the other hand, it reduces taxes, which, of course, is a good thing, but I would like to point out that it is quite unsystematic. Otherwise, there could not be a tax of 10 per cent on the brewed beer and 21 per cent on the diaper. The whole EET system has been quite expensive since its introduction. I am convinced that it does not bring much tax collection and, at the same time, it decimates, above all, small businessmen and small entrepreneurs, whom every sensible government and politicians should respect, not constantly throwing sticks at them. Unfortunately, EET has become an instrument of bullying businessmen and entrepreneurs. Let's face it, the effect is actually quite opposite to what it was supposed to be. In a number of villages, you can just see it. Small establishments, shops and inns are closed. Now a little bit of fines in the event of a violation of this law, i.e. in the case of non-recording of sales. Let me give you an example that Senator Goláň mentioned. The case where the seller sold the cookies for CZK 10 without proof and after the check he received a fine of CZK 10,000. And he gave an example that when you enter the railway crossing on red, you endanger the lives of people and millions of assets, you get a fine of only CZK 5,000. So for pies a senseless fine of 10,000, luckily the court canceled and gave only a thousand. He's done the moderation, which isn't so common in our justice system. And the court itself has shown that this is not the way, because the 10 crown cookie also has some costs. Madam, honourable Members, I know that following the speech of the Minister in a number of you, it is enshrined that you will not support the Senate proposal, yet I ask you to support the rejection of this amendment of the law. You will not only help our small entrepreneurs and businessmen, such as plumbers, bricklayers, hairdressers and the like, but also our country, which is unfortunately sometimes forgotten a lot. I live in the country, I meet small businessmen. Just the other day, I was at a hairdresser who was saying, "I hope you don't support it, you won't get away with it," 'cause she's pretty scared of it. I do not believe in the settlement of the tax environment through the repression of the smallest entrepreneurs who really have very small incomes and do not want anything from the state because they do not receive paid vacations, do not take sick leave and the like, just pay taxes, pay social, health and nothing from the state, so of course the state will easily deal with them. They create a law and, of course, send a number of them, as they say, to the employment office or to the labour process, which is a shame. The settlement of the tax environment must be sought primarily in large companies. Big companies, especially complexes like that made up of several companies, send money to each other. And there escape not millions of crowns, not hundreds of millions of crowns, but probably billions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u5	Thank you, Senator. And before I open the debate, I will once again ask the Committee's rapporteurs if they want to comment on the Senate resolution. First, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Budgets, a Member of the Volný, who is not here. The rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Munzar, is enrolled in the debate and has no interest in expressing himself before the debate and the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, and Mr Marek Benda will not be expressing himself either. So I'm opening up a debate. Mr Vojtěch Munzar is the first Member to be enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the Senator and his via the Senate for their negative opinion on this proposal. The Senator here rightly pointed out that this law revolves particularly on those small entrepreneurs who contribute to our economy, while the state should focus more on the big ones. Based on the history of this discussion, and it has been more than a year, there is a strong effort to push through the government coalition at all costs, regardless of the opposition's views, and today no matter what the Senate's views. Although the House is significantly divided and the Senate is still hearing and we see arguments and efforts at any cost to approve this amendment to reject the extension of the EET to the third and fourth waves. I wouldn't agree with the Minister about what she said: let's end this undignified debate. I rather consider the lack of willingness of coalition and government parties to listen to our arguments and to accept at least some of the amendments that we have tabled, such as fines. [[18.00 hours]] The willingness to listen was equal to zero. So I'm kind of upset when the secretary here is talking about undignified debates and ending them. I find it undignified not to debate and listen. EET is not just an instrument for issuing receipts, as representatives of the government and the Ministry of Finance try to present it to the public. It is an instrument of online control and monitoring of entrepreneurs which significantly interfere with the freedom of business. It is an online check that businessmen themselves and also for the state to secure, on their cargo. And it's already unfair in itself. In order to enforce this flagship of theirs, the representatives of the ANO movement have long-term rhetorically divided society into employees and tradesmen and sowed and sowed distrust among them. And then, of course, the Secretary of State can wave charts here about what EET support is for the public. But really, we should think long-term about the demands of the economy, their long-term growth, and not just follow the popularity of graphs and public opinion. In a large part of the public, the EET has become a symbol of permanent and preventive distrust that the ANO movement and the other ruling parties have with regard to businessmen. I could read here again the whole dissenting position of the constitutional judges when the EET action was decided, on the third and fourth waves. This opinion, from my point of view, contains, say, great inner wisdom in assessing the importance of free enterprise for society. It would really be worth reading the whole thing, but I'm not gonna read the whole thing. But I chose a quote that fits exactly this situation. The Constitutional Court, or part of the Constitutional Judges, said in that dissenting opinion that it was like leaving the whole class after school just because only one pupil disturbed in class. And I want to add that the YES movement caused the rest of the school to point a finger at that class. The state wants businessmen and entrepreneurs to know all the legislation, to be taxpayers, accountants, safety experts, quality managers, statistics, personalists, waste and energy experts, and to know many other standards and regulations. When control comes, not only from the tax office, but from any state office, the clerk knows perfectly the laws in his particular segment. But after the tradesmen, the state wants them to know everything perfectly. All this requires on their side the time and energy that entrepreneurs, rather than devote it to their business and the development of their business, devote to the state, on the basis of a decision by the state that imposes further and further regulation on them. At the same time, their daily efforts and activities are a prerequisite for our state's economic prosperity. And as I said, they are rewarded for this activity by permanent mistrust and brutal regulation that makes them preemptively vulgar suspects. And that, you can trust me, that massive majority of honest businessmen are upset because they're unwittingly affected by them. The scars thus created on the face of society by this negative rhetoric and this negative approach to business will heal for a long time in our society. In the debate from EET's defense attorneys, two arguments were gradually raised by the government. Interestingly, at first it was an income to the state budget, and when the assumptions are not fulfilled, we do not see the massive construction of motorways, schools, kindergarten or stadium for Martina Sáblíková, so the rhetoric has changed over time. And we have also heard from the Minister today that the main reason for the introduction of the EET is to level up the business environment. The rhetoric has changed from my point of view, because from the financial point of view, it is not the glory that we and the public have been promised. So first of all, the first argument, the proceeds. The credibility and credibility of data on EET's financial benefits is quite frankly at least questionable. Targets are not being achieved. But I don't want to stick to the argument with the numbers analysis today. And even if I accepted the Ministry of Finance's figures, the EET's declared revenue does not amount to one percent of the state budget's total revenue. Was the big hello really worth it, Madam Secretary? I would follow up and just point out what the Senator said here that many economists believe that the benefits cannot be attributed to the EET alone, but especially to the growth of the economy. We do not and cannot distinguish whether the koruna that came into the state budget from the entrepreneur is because he had previously withheld it, which means that it would have been the benefit of EET, or because at a time of economic growth he has new customers or existing customers will buy more. Everyone can answer what is probably more credible at the time of economic growth. When the Minister talks about balancing the business environment, balancing the business environment by brutal regulation is in itself a contradiction. A liberal environment is the best way to grow private activities. Just to give you an idea of where the balancing of the business environment leads. According to data from the Association of Czech Traditional Trade, another 513 ended in 20171 082 rural stores with mixed goods. Ninety percent of the 513 were led to small trades, at least this is how the Association of Czech Traditional Trade speaks. EET is not the only factor, but I think it has become the most famous last nail in the coffin of these shops. In smaller municipalities, the service of the population has thus decreased. That's the balancing of the business environment. In many villages, local pubs are finished and local pubs are finished, and instead new clubs are established in firehouses, football fields and so on. Does the demise of pubs and the emergence of new clubs really lead to a smoothing of the business environment? For so long, my dear government, you will level the business environment with various regulations, obligations, and fines once you have completely leveled it and leveled it to the ground. And even these examples are like raised fingers when we discuss the original government proposal and extension of the EET to other tradesmen, craftsmen, but not only craftsmen, but also to veterinarians or doctors. I could read a list of professions here, too, but I'm not gonna do that. But I'd like to draw your attention to a few things. We all know the situation in crafts today. Our country suffers from a shortage of craftsmen. Getting one fast is literally equal to a little miracle. We even have a similar problem with doctors, especially in remote villages, often doctors who are already early in their birth and who are already relegating to retirement age. And we are worried that many of them will simply drop it after the expansion of the EET to either take EET for a few transactions and payments in cash for various minor assessments or lay in other papers in a special regime. I really don't know if this will contribute to the service, in this case medical, in remote areas. With craftsmen, we fear that many will end when EET reaches them. You drive some of them into the gray zone. Those who don't give receipts nowadays probably can't be expected to suddenly start doing that to EET. And I can't imagine effective control of the services of craftsmen. So in the finals, the honest guys who get EET will pay for it, and the cost of getting EET will be paid. You're proposing a special regime for the little ones, but you're actually replacing the electronic fag, I'm not afraid to use the word paper. EET's business environment does not balance, on the contrary, it plans to create a hostile environment for business and for people's private activities, with all the fines and controls that EET has brought and this law brings. Most fines are not for trying to avoid tax obligations, but for various administrative errors either those entrepreneurs, but often their employees. [[18.10 hours]] Even the courts are beginning to say that the fines imposed are disproportionate. Judge for yourselves. Fine for unaccounted for box of tic-tac 71-year-old pensioner 15,000 crowns. In a minute difference between buying and registering in EET a fine of 3,000. For the fact that some restaurant didn't set EET time from summer to winter ticket 2,000. The fine for not issuing a receipt for a cookie worth CZK 10,11,000 - fortunately, the court reduced the fine to CZK 1,000. Does that really feel right to you? This really isn't a friendly business environment. This is not the right atmosphere in our country for the development of business. After others, you want absolute infallibility, but mistakes on the side of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration either do not solve or ignore or pass them over. And the Financial Administration's approach may sometimes be opposed. And that is an uneven approach of our government to citizens. And it all fits into a mosaic of targeted action and a campaign against free enterprise. The power of state authorities and controls and their overuse is increasing. State power in the form of Financial Administration gets green in anything so that the management of the resort can boast of increased tax collection. EET's not the only one. Several companies have been wiped out here. Abuse of warranty orders. Between 2009 and 2010, approximately 100 hedging orders were issued. In 2015, there was a jumping increase of 1,605. More than 1,500 in 2016. This really led to the liquidation of several companies. I could talk here, and I said it at third reading, about the example of Tobacco Plus, but I'll keep that until the debate continues. I will just say that the judge who ruled this case said that, in the Court's view, he committed a gross and serious breach of the procedural rights of the tax entity. Symbolic for procedure Financial governance towards citizens, for example. the invitation of the government to newlyweds under the threat of a half-million-dollar fine to give details of the wedding reception, just because they were checking out a restaurant nearby their residence. And we can also talk about the fact that it influenced the independence of Financial Administration controllers by being motivated financially to reduce taxes on science and research. And here I am reminding you that with every proposal - and I am in the House of First Period - every tax proposal that we are discussing here comes some provision in a law that complicates and complicates life for entrepreneurs. Even in the new tax code, which is waiting for us to discuss, the extension of the VAT deduction refunds from 30 to 45 days. What about the new law here, the reduction in tolerance and the increase in rigor. It's a long-term, and it's a planned, hostile environment for business. This atmosphere in society and in business does not really attract particularly young people for business, on the contrary. And our economy needs a strong middle class for the future. It needs people who, through their private activities, will contribute to the economic strength of our country, who can take care of their family and themselves. And you, Dear Government, have reduced the contribution of such people throughout the economy only to their contribution to the state register. You burden active people with more and more administration. Excessive bureaucracy, regulation and fines stifle business and people's own activities. And you continue your pressure on small businessmen. Now you want to burden thousands of small businessmen, craftsmen, hairdressers, seamstresses, doctors, gardeners and many others by expanding the EET and new costs, and you want to squeeze every crown out of them. You're tough on the little ones, but you're jumping on the big ones, as the Senator has rightly said and pointed out. The reason for this may be found in the Prime Minister's statement, the Chairman of the ANO Andrej Babiš movement in 2013, who then declared: Small and medium-sized enterprises, that is cliché and bullshit. We need to support a great industry that has a tradition here. No, Prime Minister, absent, we particularly need a strong middle class, a strong medium state. And this condition is co-created by active people who are not afraid to take care of themselves and their families and embark on a difficult journey of business. They offer their surroundings their services and contribute e.g. and into our social system. That's the kind of people the state should respect, not throwing sticks at them. Therefore, I welcome and thank the Senate for its decision to reject the EET amendment to extend the third and fourth waves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u7	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will also speak in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister spoke of EET becoming a policy. But it's not really like that. I think the dispute is a matter of fact. It's about whether or not we want to hit a few hundred thousand people negatively in life or not. But at the same time, the EET became a symbol. A symbol of the state focusing on bullying those little ones and blowing off the leaks of the big ones. After all, this government directly symbolizes how it works itself. When a tax evasion for 270 million, respectively, is made on the Capitol Nest. $270 million goes in there for advertising so that taxes don't have to be paid, so the Treasury Secretary here sweeps it under the rug. [[Secretary of Finance off the microphone from the newsstand: How dare you?]] But when we talk about whether any businessman in the whole republic should have any cashier, then suddenly it's a government rush to step on them. EET has become a symbol of this bullying. And at the same time, it's the last straw. There are a lot more problems. It is extremely difficult for us to go from a garage to a full-time job. It's just that when a person starts a parent's vacation business, and then maybe the lady tries to go half-time or full-time, the bureaucratic burden is enormous. But the EET is a symbol that politicians instead of solving these problems, instead they give away other and other responsibilities, often unnecessary. Why useless? Because the EET's revenue is being made up by the government. It has no support in the data. After all, VAT is growing faster in fields without EET than in fields with EET. So the numbers the government is operating on don't make any sense. He's just making them up. And as far as the third and fourth waves are concerned, there is no real control at all. It's just whether or not someone has an EET checkout, and whether or not they issue a receipt is two diametrically different things. This fundamental argument is completely ignored by the government. While a checker can sit in the restaurant and see if someone pays for it, it appears in the system - by the way, the controllers give tickets to people who send it to the system, only they don't issue a receipt, which is also completely head-to-head - at least the checker in the restaurant can work, while the gardener, plumber, room painter, and a lot of other crafts and free professions can't be controlled in this way. That's why it's completely unimaginable to introduce the third and fourth wave. And if we're talking about the etc. support graphs, then one important graph is how the ANO tradesmen's support fell. These were the people who believed in 2013 that the YES movement would bring for them a fairer state, where it would be easier to do business, and instead they imposed on them other and other responsibilities, so that the YES support for businessmen fell in half. So these are the material reasons why the pirát will definitely support the rejection of the EET. Other things. Paper mode is completely out of order. It's just not a system that could work. You designed it on purpose so that practically no one would use it. There's a completely pointless measure where a businessman has to write a total of sales every day into a table that he's going to send to the office every three months. It's nonsense that you forbid businessmen to print their own receipts. It's completely undercooked, the off-line mode. So a measure that had some potential to help the least, so because you stood up to any substantive debate, and because you rejected all the amendments that we or the ODS and other opposition parties made, that is why the paper regime is completely useless. [[18.20 hours]] Next thing. EET has no added value for its users. No one is motivated by the fact that EET is somehow helping him to simplify his taxes. That he'd have some discount, that he'd have any advantage of the state imposing this obligation on him. It's just another fag, but it doesn't mean anything to the operators. It doesn't mean anything to the entrepreneurs. That's a terrible mistake. Instead of focusing on how to give EET some added value, so that at least those users who already have it say, "I have some of it, the state has made it easier for me, now I don't have to send this paper extra," so instead you're just expanding the EET to another profession and even the flat-rate tax that we may be supporting, you're going incredibly slower than expanding the EET. The EET is now before the last vote, while the flat-rate tax is not even in the House today, so I don't think it's going to last until the end of the parliamentary term at what rate you're working on these proposals. And one last thing. EET is a completely marginal issue in terms of state budget and state economy. Even if the numbers I think you're making up are worth billions of crowns. Especially in the third and fourth waves. These are units of billions of crowns. While here we have a capital drain of 400 billion. Kroner a year, we have big corporations here where we can't put our foot down on transfer pricing. The Prime Minister is making tax evasion through the Capi nest, and that's the situation. Instead, you devote all your political energy to pushing the EET into force without any debate with the opposition. And that's just so wrong. That is why the pirát will vote to reject this ill-conceived law. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u9	Thank you. I note that Mr Luzar will vote with the replacement card number 22. The word is another one entered into the debate, Mr Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for your attention. Allow me to perform briefly, too. I promise I will not artificially stretch anything, during those few readings and the long legislative process all the arguments have been raised by me. However, a few comments and arguments as to why we will not, of course, vote in favour of the next EET wave. The first argument is that EET automatically makes entrepreneurs suspicious. The principle is that the accused must prove to the police that he has done something wrong. We're turning around here, and the entrepreneur has to prove to the Minister, virtually. Financial management that acts in accordance with the law. This is a principle for me that I do not think belongs in a democratic and free country. The state has enough repressive tools, after all, and the Financial Administration, to prevent potential sinners, which, in my opinion, is the minimum among our entrepreneurs, a small percentage, from finding the dishonest ones to punish them, thereby defending fair competition for most entrepreneurs who do business honestly and in accordance with the law. So the first argument is that we're trying to make out the entrepreneurs who live this state without which we wouldn't even be sitting here, because their taxes are drowning, glowing, and we can be here, so we wouldn't be without them. They're the productive part of the economy, and we can only redistribute the fruits of their work here. And yet, of these people that we should value in the first place, we automatically make suspects. The second argument, which strongly sounds against the EET and is valid, is that, of course, it is a great administrative and bureaucratic burden. And that thing doesn't apply, the administrative bureaucratic burden only on the part of entrepreneurs who have to buy a new checkout, who have to pay a flat-rate fee every month, Internet access, receipt paperwork. The administrative burden, of course, also affects the state. After all, when we saw how many additional officials the Ministry of Finance had to accept to control the functioning of the EET - and I have one personal experience from a pub in Central Bohemia, where I saw two ladies, how they treated the entrepreneur and the innkeeper who worked there; I have never seen such arrogance of the state as I have seen with the Financial Administration workers who have, and I have watched this very carefully, who have talked to the entrepreneur. So, of course, the bureaucratic burden is on the side of the state. Even that state must spend more money on new officials, which it has to employ for the EET. The third argument that we do not want EET is that there is no argument that it would lead to some high tax collection, that it would lead to the elimination of tax defaults. This argument is odd especially in the Czech Republic, which has one of the most complex tax systems in the world, as many international institutions say. And the way to make tax evasion less is certainly not the way that we are going to keep putting the tax system and tax administration together, but, on the contrary, that path should go in the opposite direction. This means that our tax system will become simpler, we will reduce taxes, and entrepreneurs will have fewer opportunities and less motivation to circumvent these complex taxes and high taxes. Madam Secretary likes to quote economists. You will find a lot of quotes from economists who clearly demonstrate that the simpler the tax system in the country is, the fewer exceptions the tax system contains and the lower the taxes, the less the risk of tax defaults, tax optimization. On the contrary, even with lower taxes, those countries often collect more tax revenue than those which have a tax system full of exemptions and which have a high tax system. Another thing that is very serious is that a number of studies also show that tax evasion occurs most often in large international, multinational corporations, where relatively sophisticated activities can be optimized by tax. These large corporations are now using the corners of a complex tax system, using very specialized tax lawyers to implement this international tax optimization. There is, without a doubt, more money running than it is running away from a small businessman hiding a small payment. So tax evasion is not dominant on the tradesmen's side. Tax optimization, which is a legal way to reduce taxes, but also tax evasion, and I believe it is happening especially on the side of large corporations. It is very often said that the EET is to straighten the business environment. It is very smiling to want to level up the business environment by further regulation. If the business environment is distorted by something, it is distorted by the great ingerence of the state into business, by the great power of the state, by the huge amount of bureaucracy and by the huge amount of regulation that we have started in the new millennium to burden our entrepreneurs and our business environment, whether on the part of some socialist idea that more regulation brings good, or even by the fact that a lobbyist group, a strong interest group on politicians, has lobbied some exception that has gone positively in their interests, and, on the contrary, damaged the rest of the business environment. So regulation really doesn't balance the business environment, regulation complicates the business environment and encourages further efforts by entrepreneurs to avoid that regulation. It motivates other dishonest behaviors of entrepreneurs. If we want to straighten the business environment, let us reduce and simplify taxes and remove a whole range of bureaucracies, subsidies and similar things that destroy our business environment. [[18.30 hours]] The impact of the EET is, of course, on all entrepreneurs. The Minister often reiterates that this is not just about businessmen, but also about large corporations. That's certainly true, but I guess we can all figure out what kind of cargo is relative to electronic sales records for small entrepreneurs in the village, and what kind of cargo it means for a large sales chain that already had a software network built up today or before the introduction of EET and only updates the software in those checkouts, uploads another application and can start electronic sales records, unlike some small consumption in the village, where a lady who's been doing it for decades has to take a computer, a cash register to her old knees, and put a cash register into that store. It is clear that this regulation will, above all, fall on the smaller ones. It is smiling and I think it speaks very much about the functioning of the ANO movement, quite a few days ago we had a press conference where the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry presented a package for entrepreneurs who wanted to make life easier for entrepreneurs, and they said sentences such as that the entrepreneur is once again at the forefront of the ANO movement and that the ANO movement comes up with a whole series of ideas to ease entrepreneurs. This was a press conference, it was said, it was written in the paper, but we come on the first day after the holiday at the Chamber of Deputies meeting and one of the first laws that we are discussing is not in the sense that we want to help entrepreneurs, that we want to make it easier for them, but it is a bill that makes it difficult for entrepreneurs. So at press conferences, in front of the cameras, it's about helping the business, it's about facilitating the business sector very much, of which are nice photos, of which are nice headlines, but when it starts to work, when concrete bills start to be discussed, one of the first laws is a law that will continue to burden the business environment. But I think the secretary named the ideal basis quite precisely in her opening act. You know, every time someone's afraid to say something full mouth, even though they think so, they borrow a quote from someone who says it for him in quotes, they recite it, and then they continue their argument. We have heard a quote from the Minister of the Nobelův Prize in the sense that capitalism leads to cheating. I would very much like to stand up for capitalism. I know that this House is not fashionable in this distribution of political forces, but we will soon celebrate thirty years since 1989, from the beginning of the construction of the market economy and capitalism in the Czech Republic, and I think that not only has the theory shown, but above all, the reality after 1989 that capitalism, the market economy has shifted this country to wealth, to success, to living standards as far as it has ever happened in the history of the Czech Republic or Czechoslovakia. While state ownership was being robbed during the central economy because, as it was said, who did not steal from the family, robbed himself, the Czech Republic, together with the start of the market economy, experienced a very high economic growth, a huge improvement in the standard of living. And I appreciate all the entrepreneurs who, after decades of communism, did not have the experience, although they did not have the knowledge of how it is done, so I admire them and thank them that after 1989 they decided to become capitalists, decided to become entrepreneurs and moved this country forward at an absolutely incredible pace that did not have an equivalent in the history of our country. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Madam Secretary, I could quote a number of Nobel Nobelův who, on the contrary, defend the market economy and capitalism as the only system that leads to wealth growth. Capitalism not only helped the Czech Republic to turn it back into an advanced and rich country, but when we look at countries all over the world, it was capitalism and a market economy that has brought a huge number of people out of poverty in recent years. If I may have your attention...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u11	I would ask for peace of mind with the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u12	Thank you very much. Because it is capitalism and the market economy that leads to a voluntary exchange of property rights, it is, in principle, a free choice, so it must be advantageous for both parties entering it. It is precisely a state that forces not only entrepreneurs but also citizens to circumvent this bureaucratic burden, high taxes and administrative claims, and sometimes also cheat on them by its regulations, high taxes and stamps. So it's the opposite, Madam Secretary. If you want to avoid cheating in this country, but to make this country rich, then support the market economy, support capitalism, abolish regulation and reduce taxes - in which you are, in creating and increasing them, experts - support capitalism, support the market economy, because the central management of the economy has been here - and this has just been stolen, it has only been cheated. But it may be the saying "I judge you by myself," but all businessmen, Madam Secretary, are not cheaters. The vast majority of them are decent and the vast majority of them do not need EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u13	Now, I have one point of fact here, but I have a request here before that from the chairman of the ANO parliamentary club - until before the vote, okay - for a short break. Mr Martinů, please. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u14	Nice evening, folks and nice colleagues. I would very much like to draw attention to the World Bank study, which points out that 92 percent of all tax evasion is not from small businesses, but from large corporations. And we're here to fight this huge battle against small businessmen for eight percent. I think it's completely embarrassing. I'm telling the truth to the senator, and I'm asking the secretary what he's gonna do with the 92 percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u15	Thank you. I'll look around the O.R. to see if I have any more applications for the general debate. I don't see anyone. I see, yes, Mr. Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a terrible pity that the most famous of digitalisation and the state's electronicisation is unfortunately under the heading of electronic sales records. I think we're all trying to promote that the state is rationally electronized, and we mean that electronic tools will serve to make life easier for people to live easier. But the EET is heading in the exact opposite direction. They're heading to spy, to look under everyone's fingers, and to employ the financial director's staff to see if there was a receipt for two pies missing, instead of focusing on much more serious problems, especially for large holdings. So maybe then weird tax optimizations to an unnamed recreational facility near Olbramovice can pass through and do not deal with it, while tic-tac receipts become one of the important public topics. It is said that you will recognize them by the fruit. After all, every normal healthy state in the first place trusts its citizens and people and focuses on punishing them, looking under the fingers of those who are dishonest and cheating the state. But here, the electronic tool works exactly the other way around - as a tool for strengthening distrust in society, for everyone to be a little bit suspicious in the first place, maybe everyone is cheating, so we need to put strong tools on them to shine a light on them. As I mentioned, you can tell by the fruit. After all, how functional this tool is and how effective it really is, the important parameters reflect the important values of its own. In connection with the EET, the Supreme Audit Office stated: CZK 428 million, this is the total value of economically realized public contracts in connection with the electronic registration of sales - CZK 428 million of suspicious public contracts in the information system, which is intended to avoid tax fraud in the Czech Republic. CZK 70 million - further findings of the Supreme Audit Office - is the value of the unbiased IT technologies related to the EET. [[18.40 hours]] And here we are to support the instrument that shows these serious problems, aim not to cheat in the Czech Republic so that everything is transparent and itself is burdened with these serious errors according to the statement of the Supreme Audit Office. In my opinion, this too would be enough to never adopt such a law and to abolish such an information system, because it embezzles the basic instinct, the basic sense of good digitization, that it benefits people, makes life easier for them and contributes to transparency instead of making life difficult for them, as EET does. So please also try to consider these facts when you will soon consider and vote on the further enlargement of the EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u17	I will now look around the hall to see if there is another application for the general debate. I don't see one, so if no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Senator? Madam Secretary? You're not interested. And now, before the vote, we have a request from the ANO parliamentary club, President of the Faltýnek movement - five minutes' pause for a meeting of the MP club. I'm calling a five-minute break for a meeting of the MP's club. Meet me at 6:45. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 18.40 to 18.45 hours.]] So the break's over. Let's keep going. Chairman of the ČSSD MP Chvojka and Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Member Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, colleagues. On behalf of the Czech Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, I would like to take a break for the club meeting within 19 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u19	I interrupt within 19 hours, but we will give the room to Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u20	Thank you for the floor. [[There's a huge noise in the hall and very poor audibility.]] I won't talk long. Just, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the government coalition. I was asked today at a press conference by media representatives to see if we were going to any obstructions. I said that our position on the electronic record of sales remains constant, it will continue to be constant, but that we will not do anything at all that can be interpreted as obstruction. I thought it was necessary to end this undignified theater today. I couldn't have known a second, and none of my colleagues in the opposition benches could have known that whoever would proceed to a major obstruction would be representatives of the government coalition. We had 15 minutes to vote on the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the Senate veto. You don't want to work, you do obstructions, and then you blame us for resorting to something like this! You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-004-004.u21	So I'm interrupting the meeting by 7:00, which concludes today's agenda for the Chamber of Deputies. I have here for Mr Bartoš's actual enrollment. You applied 30 seconds ago, but you didn't. So have a nice evening, and I'll meet you tomorrow at 9:00.
