ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u1	28. Government bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 514/ - first reading As soon as the House calms down, I will give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture of the Government of the Czech Republic, Miroslav Toman, who, under the authority of the Government, is the one who will present the press 514. Just a little longer, Minister, when the rumpus melts... If you want to discuss something other than the protection of animals against abuse, it is crucially in the foyer, my colleagues, my colleague. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The submitted amendment implements the European Union Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes on the basis of additional requirements of the European Commission. Following a discussion on dog reproductions, the amendment introduces a definition of a breeding plant that combines an existing ban on breeding animals under inappropriate conditions with the accented issue of breeding more dogs and cats. It expressly provides for a ban on the breeding or reproduction of dogs or cats in the breeding room, further introduces registration and information obligations for the sale and donation of puppies, this is the registration sheet of the litter puppy, extends the range of subjects to which these obligations apply, in addition to entrepreneurs, breeders' associations and their members as well as to breeders of three or more females. Basic obligations for reproduction of dogs and cats apply to all breeders. [[Noise in the hall.]] The amendment also provides for prohibited activities with selected species of predators and apes, in particular petting and walking in the public area, tightening the conditions of their breeding, in particular the size and equipment of the premises, and introducing courses to care for these animals. Furthermore, the amendment introduces a license to perform public appearances with selected species of game and their reproduction, for example in circuses. The amendment also proposes tightening the conditions for breeders of animal species requiring special care, especially in interest farming. On the basis of the extended authorisation, the new regulation will also regulate the care requirements -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace. I think we have agreed quite clearly that whoever wants to speak on the matter will be given the floor, if he is signed up, and those who are discussing something else cannot disturb the person to whom the word has been given. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u4	The amendment also proposes tightening the conditions for breeders of species requiring special care, as I said, in interest breeding. On the basis of the extended authorisation, the new regulations will also regulate the requirements for care, requirements for premises and equipment for the breeding of these animals. Another aim of the bill is to ensure that the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence do not have major financial problems in placing abused animals in preliminary replacement care or replacement care. Newly, the Ministry of Agriculture will bear the costs incurred effectively in ensuring the care of animals on the basis of an application made by the municipal authority of the municipality with extended application under the conditions laid down by law. The draft law further specifies and explicitly regulates the obligation to ensure that an animal does not harm or kill an animal of another breeder, regulates the obligation to carry out deratisation, extends to municipal authorities the possibility of imposing an administrative penalty for the forfeiture of an animal or a protective measure to prevent an animal. Part of the bill is the amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges. It introduces a new administrative fee for granting a licence to perform public appearances with selected species of game and their reproduction, especially in circuses. It increases the administrative fees for breeding permits for breeders of selected species of wild animals and apes. It shall increase the administrative fees for authorisations for use of experimental animals and for authorisations for breeding or delivery of experimental animals. It also introduces an administrative fee for the approval of the experimental project. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the Ministry of Agriculture is aware that voices are also being heard, that the right of entry of the Police of the Czech Republic and workers of veterinary administrations should be regulated in areas where there is reasonable suspicion of animal abuse. I must say that this issue is not currently being modified in the amendment because we have not met with agreement in the previous amendments and there is an ambiguous approach to this amendment. We are prepared to address this issue in the case of political support by the amendment in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u5	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture, to Miroslav Toman. I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Pavel Kováčik, to present the news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Mrs and gentlemen, the Minister has presented here in very detail the amendment which, in my view, comes just in time to respond to the new situation in European legislation, but also to the changing moods and opinion levels of the citizens of the Czech Republic, especially those who are therefore not only concerned with the breeding and handling of these animals, but also to the wider public, where the protectionist principle is becoming more and more aware, and I think it is absolutely, but absolutely appropriate. Therefore, all I have left to say here, in accordance with the rapporteur's duty, is that the proposed legislation is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, there are no findings of the Constitutional Court, or compliance is not defined. It is in accordance with the regulations of the European Union and the international treaties to which the Czech Republic is bound. So much for my news report and I look forward to discussing it as rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Pavel Kováčik. I'm opening the debate. Mr Radek Holomčík is the first to be prepared, Mrs Mauritzová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u8	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quite a number of amendments prepared. I look forward to second reading and committee discussions and then third reading. I'm not talking about those proposals right now. I would like to say something in relation to this law, or the original draft and, in general, to systemic matters relating to the protection of animals from abuse in our country. The law itself. In fact, I see this law in such a way that it should be a kind of guide, this law and its implementing regulations should be a kind of guide, when a person who behaves in some way or works with animals, so he will see what he can, what he can't do, so that he can be sure that if he follows the things that are set, he will not do anything unfair in relation to the law, and, of course, in relation to animals as such. I think that in 1992, when the law became part of the Czech legislation, it was a significant shift, because until then the issue of animal abuse was solved only in Section 6, the predecessors of today's veterinary law, and the whole protection of animals from abuse was solved by the sentence "animals must not be abused" which is fundamentally correct, but the question is how it was applicable. So the fact that this law became part of Czech legislation was certainly a very important achievement. Unfortunately, over the years it's in force and when it's being amended, there's a lot of, say, logical and technical indiscretions in it. There are simply provisions that contradict each other. Let me give you a smiling example. In fact, right at the beginning of the law, it says that the law concerns vertebrates. And if we look at a few paragraphs further, we'll find a cephalopod in the definition where we say that we have animals of interest, animals of livestock, wild animals and animals of experimental nature, which is simply not a vertebrate. And that's just a smiling example. What is not so smiling is that there are just a number of people, be they breeders, but even even people from the University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences in Brno complain about it, educators, that there are provisions that go against each other, and it also causes problems in teaching. So I think it's time to start talking about how we're going to look at this law in a complex way and try to amend it in a fundamental way, because I think this area deserves to have a functional and understandable law to protect animals from abuse. And that's got another thing to do with it. I think it is, of course, right that part of the Czech legislation, whether in this law or also in the Civil Code, is that the animal is no longer understood as a thing, but as a living being who feels suffering and pain, and it would be good if we were serious about taking a look at the whole system of animal breeding, the whole system and the state administration in relation to animal breeding and looking for ways to move this protection further. [[10.30 hours]] This is a little bit of a challenge for colleagues from other parties. If you're interested in this topic, I'd like us to form a working group in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture, because it's not just about the laws. This is, of course, also about it, and that is what needs to be said, if we want to protect animals more from abuse and ensure better conditions for life, so it will just cost us something. And these are things that have to go hand in hand: changes in legislation and securing funding. Leave it only to breeders, I just don't think it would be a good way, especially now that the importance of animal production, for example, is being talked about as sources of organic matter for the landscape. I don't think it's just right. And that has to do with another and the last thing, and that's practical. Veterinarians and even people who are concerned with the protection of animals from abuse complain that in the case of large animals such as horses or larger livestock, even if they find a case of abuse, the animals actually often stay with the bully, the breeder, because there is simply no place to put them, because they are so large that there are no spare capacities to be transferred to. When you find a breed of dogs or cats, but especially dogs, there are usually those nonprofits able to fool themselves in some way and find the capacity where the dogs need to be placed, even if it is not ideal, but for the big animals it is really a problem. I asked that question last week on the Agriculture Committee. I've been informed that the Ministry of the Environment, I don't see the Minister here right now, maybe he's planning to do something by the year, if I remember correctly, 2021 to do some animal detention in CITES. And I think that, in parallel with that, we should talk about some sort of detention facility or, for example, a system of detention facilities for other large animals, so that the real detection of animal abuse cases is brought to an end, and the animals just didn't stay in the bad conditions where they are found. So much for my comments on this issue of animal protection against abuse, and I am very much looking forward to committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u9	That was Mr Radek Holomčík, and before I give the floor to Mrs Mauritzová, Mrs Helena Válková, with a factual comment, came forward. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I completely agree with the words of the speaker and what the Minister said here when he presented the proposal for this amendment. I would also like to point out in this context that we are now dealing comprehensively with the issue of improving the protection of animals from abuse in the broader sense of the word. It is even here after second reading - and in the constitutional law committee next week we will be discussing the voting procedure - an amendment to the criminal law which introduces a new deed. But since I only have two minutes, I'm gonna cut it short. It would be good to perceive this protection from animal abuse comprehensively as well as within the legislative process so that, on the one hand, we do not do something too intense without knowing that we are tightening up the control; I mean, for example, in the area of criminal, in the area of extracurricular. They're bonded vessels. I am certainly in favour of tightening up even in the area of criminal, but taking into account what is currently being discussed today, right now. So, of course, I will be very supportive of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Mauritzová, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared, then a colleague of the Zahradník. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u12	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I am very pleased that this bill has come to plenary, not only because we feel the need to address, for example, the issue of multiplication, because the animals are really just surviving in it, but not living in it. But this government bill should also eliminate errors and shortcomings that make the work of Czech researchers significantly difficult and that we need to deal with committees in the Houses and adopt amendments that will not complicate their lives. I met with researchers such as the Biomedical Centre in Pilsen and they pointed out to me, for example, that we have the opportunity to cancel five-year accreditation intervals for breeding experimental animals, which do not contribute to improving the level of animal protection, but also significantly burden the competitiveness of our Czech science. This measure, which would not be in any way contrary to European law, is not a Member State's duty to limit these authorisations in time. So we would be much tougher in the Czech Republic to our researchers than we need to be, and I think that their competitiveness would weaken very much and, of course, it would make it very difficult for them to deliver research grants. It should therefore be noted that, in order to abolish this restriction, the fact that the control of breeding, supply and user equipment is so strict, including the possibility of withdrawal of authorisation, that it is not really necessary for us to limit this accreditation to five years. Dear colleagues, I will vote for the release of this law for second reading so that we can solve not only the media-known problems of animal breeding, but also help Czech researchers with amendments to simplify their work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u13	Thank you, Mrs Mauritzová, now Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, the bill for the protection of animals against abuse is a highly sensitive matter, because we must be careful not to make life harder on the one hand for those who take very good care of animals and treat them sensitively in every way, so as not to complicate their unnecessary bureaucracy so that they can continue to devote themselves to animals as they are engaged in them. As a man who is with animals every day, and now I don't mean the Chamber of Deputies, but I mean my horses, sheep and goats - but what do I care about? This bill, in some cases, seems to me to go way beyond EU directives. Mrs Mauritzová has already spoken here about a matter where we are introducing accreditation to research institutions for five years, and this can very much restrict them to obtaining grants for which they will have to prove that they have the authority to work with animals in the spirit of, of course, legislation. And the moment they can't prove it because they're gonna apply for a grant a year before they end the accreditation, it's gonna be one of the conditions where they can't touch the grants at all. This is what I think is redundant and that we could agree that the five-year period will disappear there and that such institutions, Charles University, which is to be awarded their branch in Pilsen, for example, without limiting time. The EU does not want us to do this, and it would certainly help our scientists. The suggestion, if I say something a little smile in here too, maybe he forbids flypapers. I don't think I'm gonna say the whole point of the law is to go this far. Then we will discuss this in detail at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. If the Minister wants, I can show you which section says so. We forbid the use of glue as a tool to catch animals, and since the word vertebrates disappeared there, so it also applies to flies. So I think some of these things should definitely come back. [[10.40 hours]] What I would like to open, although it is perhaps more a matter of order, I have already announced to the Minister, is the area of animal cruelty in the case of animal slaughter. Who you experience or know those situations of farmers who raise large cattle, and especially the cattle that are used to living in pastures from a young age, then get to a facility where an animal can be killed, as the trauma that the animal is experiencing. I dare say it's literally tortured. And it's common in Austria, Germany, or developed countries that there's a slaughter of those animals right in the pasture, so that it's simply the process of taking the animal to places where it's eventually killed, which is very traumatic for it to be reduced to a minimum period of time. That's what they do in civilized countries. Unfortunately, not with us. In our country it is an obligation to kill the animal in prescribed boxes, where to get the bull-like animal, etc., which never lived in this area, was on pastures, it is often quite difficult, and I dare say that it is animal abuse and that it is possible to do so, as they approach it in the countries west of us, that it is possible to kill the animal directly in the pasture, of course in the presence of a veterinarian in accordance with legislation. But if they can do it elsewhere, why should we torture animals by dragging them into cages and boxes where they are killed? I have a lot of amendments prepared that I think are unnecessary to mention and delay at this point. It's a good thing the law's here. I believe he will move us further in the area of animal protection against abuse. I hope we can agree on texts that will be acceptable to us, too, because we consider this area very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl for his speech. Mr Jan zahradník, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, during this parliamentary term I have already spoken to the amendment to the veterinary law, a law which dealt with a similar subject matter. Specifically, I have tried to clarify my amendments to the definition of the conditions for granting or, where appropriate, the withdrawal of the accreditation of shelters. I was partly successful back then thanks to you. I also deal with this law because it basically follows up on what part of it has already been dealt with by the veterinary law. I would therefore like to draw attention to three such things that have taken my interest and which I would like to clarify with my amendments. First of all, it is the fact that from 1 January next year there is an obligation to have dogs marked with microchips. This obligation sometimes stirs up discussion, provokes resistance, is criticized even so much that some owners have already begun to think about how to circumvent this obligation, or how the result of the obligation, that is to say, to deactivate the dog's identification element, or in some way to surgically remove it from the animal, as well as to change the identification of the animal by rewriting the tattoo, or possibly simply removing the part of the animal's body. My efforts are to include this activity in the list of animal abuse. Secondly, I would like to mention another thing that is also quite sensitive, and the thing is that in one of our sections our law allows for an exception for shelters to provide information about puppies, puppies who publish from their facilities. I understand that well. There is an effort to prevent shelters from serving as part of an illegal breeding plant, I understand. On the other hand, it should be remembered that it may be possible for the animal to enter the shelter, which is therefore already in a state - for example a bitch who expects puppies, and then it is necessary for the puppies to be issued with the appropriate information, so that it is clear that they come from a legal litter and that they are animals that cannot be confused with those pure-bred, very expensive animals, which, if they are equipped with a certificate of origin, costs large amounts of money, so that there is no possibility that they would be traded for significantly lower so-called. adoption fee. That's the other thing. Finally, the third thing, once again, concerns animal awareness at the shelter. If the lost animal is received by shelter through the village, it is desirable that the information is published on the website. The law requires the publication of an identification number of a microchip or a tattoo of an animal, which I consider quite dangerous because it actually allows the information to be obtained by someone, by a person who, with unfair intentions, can then use the information obtained, for example, to collect a very expensive animal and for a cheap storage fee at the shelter to obtain this animal. Therefore, I will propose in my proposal that there be relatively highly sensitive and confidential information that should only be available to the owner, the legal owner of the animal, be replaced by information about the location, time and circumstances of finding the animal and submitting it to the shelter. Of course, I will then present my amendments in particular at second reading, and I will also introduce you to their detailed reasoning. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u17	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Before I give the floor to Mr Josef Kotta, I give two apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Marian Bojko apologizes, from 12 a.m. to the end of the day, and Mr Jiří Ventruba from 11 a.m. to the end of the day. Now, Mr Josef Kott. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Minister, I would like to thank you for the amendment to the law tabled for the ANO Parliamentary Club, because we also see that this is necessary, and when it is already a number of times a law that is being discussed here about animal cruelty and so-called animal cruelty. multiplication plants, so this brings a new perspective. It is true, and it is a good thing that the Ministry of Agriculture has a positive view of the fact that animals taken away, that they need to be taken care of, and the Ministry is taking on some kind of financial commitment. And I would like to support the idea that my colleague Radek Holomčík has been talking about, that this needs to be discussed widely. And if the Minister doesn't have a problem with that, I'd like to propose an extension of the deadline for a 30-day meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u19	Twenty days is without the Minister's consent, thirty days is with the Minister's consent. If the plaintiff doesn't mind, then it's possible. Now I beg you - Mr Pavel Bělobrádek from his seat. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I only want to draw attention to three things. The first one is, we had an amendment to the Penal Code, so we could have it paired up so it wouldn't happen. The second thing concerns the circus animals. Just so that we also realize in this discussion that in some countries an elephant, for example, is an animal, so that we don't step anywhere else, so that we realize here that a giraffe or a tiger is something other than an elephant, etc. And the third is, I think it's very important then that we really think about it - I admit that I don't know if the flypapers, as my colleague Bendl said about it, are there, but if we break through the fact that an animal by law is a vertebrate other than a human, if it's absolutely appropriate to break it. Well, that's three things, and I think this debate is definitely gonna be difficult, but I hope it's relevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u21	Thank you, Mr Bělobrádek. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. If no one reports from the scene, I am done with the debate. Before we go any further, and in final terms, I state the apology of Secretary Schillerová for today's work-related negotiations. I ask - Minister, are you interested in the final word? It's not like that. The rapporteur? Yes. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that there was no proposal to reject or return to work in the debate that was here. I merely note that there has been a proposal to extend the deadline by 30 days, with which I, as rapporteur, very much agree, because it is a topic or a set of topics that will require a discussion of a more detailed nature. The first reading, the debate here has shown that there are, say, very broad variances in individual opinions. As an example, I will mention exactly what happened here about slaughtering animals in the pasture. Well, a single animal with strict hygiene standards might be possible from the point of view of consumer protection, but I can't imagine defeating a larger set of those animals in pasture without basic procedures and equipment that guarantee that the product that comes from such slaughtered animals will be safe and healthy and will meet all the strict standards that are required in terms of consumer protection. I recommend that we take a closer look at the world, not just the examples that have been mentioned here, e.g. to pastures in the United States, where large sets of animals are transported to large processing sites, large slaughterhouses, where there are therefore, without any complaints of abuse, almost industrial processing. So it is necessary to look around on these topics not only after our little backyard, but also go out to the big garden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u23	I thank the rapporteur and we will therefore decide on individual proposals. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we're going to decide in the 351 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who is the guarantee committee for the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 351 of 167 present for 150, against no one. The motion has been approved. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u24	Thank you. I would like to suggest that the Committee on the Environment discuss this as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-002-028.u25	Okay, the Environment Committee. Is there another motion for a committee? Okay, there's no other suggestion. We will decide in the vote 352. Who is the second committee to discuss this press for the Environment Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 352 of 167 for 129, against 4. This proposal has also been approved. Now, on Mr Kott's proposal, which, with the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture, with the agreement of the petitioner, proposes extending the deadline for discussion by 30 days. We will decide on this proposal in voting number 353, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the deadline for discussion being extended by 30 days. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 353 of 168 present for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the time limit for discussion will be 90 days, and the guarantee committee shall be the agricultural committee and the other committee shall be the agricultural committee. This concludes item 28, thanks to the Minister of Agriculture and the rapporteur. I'm releasing them from the rapporteur's desk, because the next item on our agenda will be item 29. That's what it is.
