ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u1	26. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on veterinary care and amending certain related laws (veterinary law), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 435/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, whom I beg to take the floor after the calm atmosphere in the Chamber. So whoever has something important to deal with, please let them deal with it in the lobby. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Let me briefly state the Government's proposal for an amendment to Act No.166/1999 Coll. on Veterinary Care. The submitted amendment adapts the European Union regulation on official controls introducing new legislation on official controls in the field of veterinary care. In addition to the adaptation of this Regulation, the proposal to adapt animal health conditions to insect farming as livestock, to lay down animal health requirements for undertakings processing and placing insect products on the market, to anchor a game-seeker's certificate and a bee-seeker's certificate, provides for the obligation of the operators concerned to bear the publication of information necessary to protect human health and to anchor specific measures of official veterinary conclusions to ensure animal products. Part of the bill is the amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges, which in particular complements the administrative fee for the issue of consent for the disposal of horse carcases by the breeder on his own land. This proposal was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies at its 25th meeting on 4 September 2019 and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. We agree with the amendments adopted by the Agricultural Committee. They will contribute to improving the government's proposal, which is why we support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 435/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the floor and inform us about the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, the Committee on Agriculture adopted two resolutions in its discussions on this press: 435/1 which, on 30 April, suspended this item in the general debate and set the deadline for the submission of amendments by Wednesday 21 August 2019 at 12 o'clock, and then the resolution by the Committee on Agriculture number 435/2 which, on 4 September, recommended to the Chamber of Deputies, the Government's draft law to approve, as amended by the amendments adopted. He has adopted a number of amendments, which will be presented at the third reading. As rapporteur, I would also like to say that I have two amendments prepared to further improve the government's proposal, which I will, of course, make here when the debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate to which I have three Members signed up at the moment. The first to appear is Mrs Červíčková. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the amendment of the Act on Veterinary Care is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and it could be said that some parts of it are also a big topic for the public, both lay and professional. I believe that animal shelters, for example, are such areas. Not only in society, but also here in the House resonates the topic of so-called multiplication plants, and I believe that the aim of all of us is to give clear rules for the operation of animal shelters, even with regard to the needs of cities and municipalities. On the basis of cooperation with experts in the field, I have prepared an amendment law which reflects practice abroad, especially in Slovakia, Poland, Britain and France. [[Proposal]] The amendment law is inserted into the system under number 3280 and contains five points, of which only one is the so-called change point and has been processed following a massive criticism of the lay and professional public regarding the effectiveness of the penalty of so-called breeders and dog dealers. [[Proposal]] This change point, following the model of foreign adjustments, provides for the obligation to chip a puppy up to a certain age, namely three months, but no later than before leaving for the new owner. The remaining four points contained in my amendment merely formalise the legal regime of the shelter. With regard to the care of stray and abandoned animals in accordance with the doctrinal definition of the shelter, I declare a valid state in order to eliminate the interpretational uncertainties that occur in practice and cause difficulties in particular to municipalities. The proposed formulation specifications are therefore a direct response to numerous complaints made by local authorities and state institutions. For this reason, I propose to formalise the legal definition of the concept of shelter in a way accentuating the fact that shelters traditionally operate in the necessary cooperation with municipalities. As part of the unification of terms, I also propose to use the concept of animal care in the provisions where it is now subservient to the concept of isolation. For detailed reasons, see the attached amendment. I thank you in advance for your attention to this amendment and thank you for your time to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Another in the general debate is Mr Jan Zahradník, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already dealt with this law during its last submission in the last parliamentary term. At the time, I also tried to refine the definition and obligations of animal shelters. I am also returning to this subject in its second reading today, when I tabled an amendment. First of all, I'm gonna take the liberty of reminiscing a little bit of what happened. The amendment of the Act of 2017 introduced an obligation to register, which thus enabled the State Veterinary Administration to better control and record facilities arising and serving as animal shelters. Interestingly, if we look at the website of the State Veterinary Administration, we see that these shelters are currently 292. Otherwise, there were about 50 of them in 1997. So a dramatic increase in these shelters. Interestingly, the villages that take care of stray animals on their territory still have difficulty placing these found animals, which they must take care of, in the shelter. So there's something strange about it, something strange. [[16.50 hours]] Mrs. Červíčková mentioned the multiplication plants. The connection to the shelter is hard to prove. I don't want to stand here as a prosecutor. But I'm just going to point out the common knowledge that if a student from the shelter wants to take care of an animal that the shelter cares for, the so-called shelter will pay. The adoption fee and it is often worth several thousand crowns, i.e. at an amount which is essentially some valuation of the animal as it would probably be expected to pay for it on the market, but not at the maximum real market price. So it's a thing worth dealing with. I have proposed three amendments, three amendments. First of all, to § 42 para. 7 I supplemented the sentence that the regional veterinary administration would not register if the applicant did not comply with the requirements laid down in this law and the implementing legislation issued for the operation of the animal shelter. So the current state deals with the registration of the shelter, but it doesn't say anything about how the veterinary administration will verify whether the registrant meets the conditions and requirements for his shelter to be good, and it wasn't just a fictional thing. A further proposal enables the veterinary administration to withdraw the registration if it finds that the operator of the shelter seriously or repeatedly infringes the obligations laid down by law or implementing legislation. Finally, the third amendment provides for the petitioner, the Ministry, the obligation to lay down the conditions for the operation of the shelter, its organisation and minimum space for animals by implementing legislation, i.e. by a ministerial decree. So that's three parts of my proposal. I know that these proposals have not been approved during the discussion on the Committee on Agriculture, and the Ministry has expressed a negative opinion on them. I am trying to understand his reasons, but I am still putting forward this proposal, so that, on the one hand, there are reasons why the proposals have been tabled here in plenary, and also that perhaps my speech becomes a reason for some debate that could possibly lead to the inclusion of these issues in some future proposal. Nevertheless, I am going to sign up for the proposal in a detailed debate, and then at the third reading, I will speak with a request to support my proposals and hope that some of them will find support for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u9	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr. Polanský... That was a mistake. So in the general debate, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u10	Good day, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. I have already entered into the negotiation of the veterinary law during the House's discussion after the first reading, so I did not have much opportunity or too much time to devote to it in detail. However, on the agricultural committee, the veterinary law was discussed relatively calmly, except for one thing that I do not understand and which was opposed by veterinarians, since the Ministry of Agriculture is to become a kind of Department of Agriculture-School Ministry as a result of one of the amendments, it is to begin to engage in the field of education. And I doubt that the specialists in the Chamber of Deputies on school issues know that at all. That is why I wanted to turn your attention to this before the third reading and during the second reading debate. I will read the brief opinion of the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians on the resolution of the Agricultural Committee on the postgraduate education of veterinary surgeons. 4. 9. Mr Kováčik's amendment, as you have in your material, has been approved by the resolution of the Committee on Agriculture - that is not what I will read. In short, there are three paragraphs, paragraph eight, paragraph nine, broken down and within the other two, where the authorisation of the Ministry of Agriculture is imposed, that the details in the field of veterinary education be laid down by implementing legislation. And this is the opinion of the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians: "The Comora of Veterinary Physicians considers that the amendment amendment to the Veterinary Act is not clearly and intelligibly formulated and, above all, is contrary to legislation, in particular Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 381/1991 Coll., on the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians of the Czech Republic, as amended. Where the amendment was intended to establish compulsory training in particular for private veterinarians active in the field of clinical veterinary medicine, the proposal cannot be accepted in the light of the European legislation on these conditions laid down for the pursuit of the profession of veterinary surgeons when European legislation does not lay down requirements for further training of veterinary surgeons and is therefore not mandatory. [[the submitter of the above-mentioned requirements for humane doctors is required by the legislation of the European Union and is given much more strictly and widely than with veterinary surgeons and therefore this example is not possible]] In this context, there is also no clear relationship between the proposal submitted to the provision of Section 60 of the Veterinary Act, according to which a private veterinarian is entitled to carry out medical and preventive activities if it fulfils the condition of professional competence under Sections 59 and 59b and the condition of membership in the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians of the Czech Republic. In the event that the purpose of the proposal was to lay down conditions for optional, systematic training of private veterinary surgeons, it should be stressed that the proposal is in no way related to the subject-matter of the regulation of the veterinary legislation laying down qualifying conditions, but always as a condition for the performance of one of the professional veterinary activities. In such a case, however, the proposal does not reflect the requirements of § 60 cust. No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws, the Higher Education Act in particular. With regard to the possibility of higher education to provide free of charge or to pay for career-oriented lifelong learning programmes, with a view to establishing closer conditions for lifelong learning the internal regulation of the university concerned, not by law. Whether it was the intention of the proposer of the amendment to establish compulsory or optional increases in the qualifications of private veterinary surgeons, it should be noted that the proposal completely ignores the provisions of Section 2 (1). 2 of Act No. 381/1991 Coll., on the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians of the Czech Republic, according to which the conditions for the performance of the veterinary medicinal and preventive activities of its members are laid down by the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians of the Czech Republic. It can also be noted that according to this provision, the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians of the Czech Republic is entitled to comment on the conditions and methods of further training of veterinary surgeons and to participate in specialization tests. The State Veterinary Administration takes a similar position.' I am saying this here so that all of you who are interested have time to take an interest in this matter, and if you want to know the details to know where to turn, because I think it would be a shame if this had been the reason for us to speak for ourselves - now I speak for myself - so that I do not have to support this law, because I think it is completely unsystemic and it should be discussed by me. and with the school committee. [[17,00 hours]] And one more comment. There aren't enough veterinarians, we all know what the situation in the vet market is. And if this is to be a sort of vanguard of mandatory tests that veterinarians will have to have to do, they will basically have to educate themselves, eventually pay for their education, and thus a hole will be created in the market for the lack of veterinary surgeons specializing in some fields that will be gradually listed. This concern with veterinarians is and I think it is unnecessary for us to expose them to this fear. It is better if we discuss the possibilities of further education with them. I think they're ready for that. However, it must also be said that it is not quite usual for the veterinary or other legislation to be discussed, the rules governing the functioning of universities to be introduced. I think it should be in other laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u11	Thank you. I have no one else registered in the general debate. I'll check the hall, see if there's anyone from the scene, I don't see anybody, so I'm done with the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. The first enrollment is Mrs Červíčková. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Chairman Kováčik then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u12	Thank you. I hereby sign up for my amendment, which is set out in the system under number 3280, which I justified in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u13	Thank you. Chairman Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the two amendments that I have referred to in my report by the rapporteur. The first proposal is a proposal that has a connection to even recently medialized cases of large beasts and problems caused by their breeders or their breeders. At the same time, it also concerns the issue of the transfer and breeding of primates. And I would like to make the first statement of reasons so that you know what this is about, and then the proposal. Currently, intra-EU trade in these animals, i.e. primates and beasts, is authorised exclusively between the so-called "EU', in accordance with Council Directive 9265/EEC. approved equipment pursuant to Section 55 of Decree No. 382/2003 Coll. The only exception is the transfer of monkeys from a private person to an approved establishment after approval by the competent authorities of the Member States. Animals must always be accompanied by a health certificate issued by an official veterinarian, which means that trade in primates within the European Union is limited and should always be carried out with the knowledge of the competent supervisory authority. However, there are more and more cases of illegal trade in primates within the Czech Republic or even dispatch abroad with so-called. a donation document, which is not known to the legislation and the related ignorance of breeders as regards the legislation and conditions governing the trade and treatment of animals. In addition, there are different types of breeders within the Czech Republic, from interest breeders who currently have no obligation to keep any records, through traders in animals registered under § 28 para. 4 the veterinary law, which temporarily buys the animals, keeps them quarantined in various places in the Czech Republic and then trades them to the European Union and to third countries, after the approved equipment pursuant to Section 55 of Decree No. 382/2003 Coll. For this reason it is not possible to determine where the animal comes from, since individual establishments can relocate animals, and that is the point, without the required proof and often without the knowledge of the relevant regional veterinary administration. Similar trading conditions are also in the case of predators, where even less requirements apply within the European Union than in the case of primates for the movement of animals. Regardless of the status of breeding at the place of dispatch or destination, it is sufficient that the animals are accompanied by so-called a statement by the breeder confirming that the animals concerned do not show any sign of disease at the time of dispatch and that its holding, i.e. breeding, is not subject to any animal health restrictions without any animal health expression accompanying the breeder's declaration. So it's just a statement from the breeder. The breeder may not always be fully qualified, I say. Within the Czech Republic, the conditions for transfer of primates and beasts are minimal. In principle, it is not necessary to contact the local regional veterinary administration or to issue any proof of transfer to another breeding. Breeders and traders in some cases abuse this situation, and a large number of these species are often moved through the Czech Republic without any record or record being kept of it. In recent years, the State Veterinary Administration has repeatedly rejected several applications for trade in primates, which would not comply with European legislation, as well as records the efforts of breeders to carry out the transfer of animals without the required documents, e.g. under the pretext of donation, only on the basis of a donation contract, without contact and approval by the competent authority of the Member State, without issuing a veterinary certificate. The last recorded cases are from 1. 1. 2017: twice Czech Republic to the Slovak Republic, once Czech Republic to Slovenia, once from Germany to the Czech Republic, once from the Czech Republic to Poland. This is a profitable trade, but from the point of view of the veterinary but completely undesirable, for many reasons, especially the contagious, due to the welfare, i.e. the difficulty of breeding and transport conditions, and also for ethical reasons. Even from the perspective of future European legislation, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2016/429 on animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of healthy animals, the legal framework for animal health, is expected, with effect from 21 April 2021, to further tighten animal trading conditions and to harmonise requirements for non-Harmonised species. In the case of monkeys, the Commission's final draft delegated act laying down the conditions for the movement of terrestrial animals and hatching eggs lays down a requirement for the consent of the competent authority to move non-human primates from non-approved establishments to and within one Member State. However, the conditions of transfer between private breeders, i.e. non-approved establishments, continue to be left to each Member State by the European Commission. In the case of the animal entering into force of the new legislation, the obligation to issue a veterinary certificate for other animals will be increased, i.e. animals other than dogs, cats and ferrets, but only when moved to another Member State. We believe that the condition of a national veterinary certificate for the movement of primates and beasts would provide a greater overview of the movement of these species of animals across the Czech Republic and their actual origin. This requirement is important in terms of a comprehensive overview of the movements of animals in the Czech Republic and is also proposed because of traceability for both the occurrence of disease or disease or subsequent stay outside the Czech Republic, or in the case of escape of this bred often large beast - tiger, lion, cougar - and during subsequent surveillance in the case of capture or blasting of this individual. The proposal for this requirement also relates to the upcoming amendment to Act No. 246/1992 Coll., for the protection of animals against abuse, which tightens, among other things, the breeding conditions of selected species of beasts and apes. Amendment to Act No. 246/1992 Coll. However, the terms of trade in these species within the Czech Republic are not regulated in any way. The above health certificate requirement could apply to the species listed in the Annex to the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. [[17.10 hours]] Recorded cases and efforts by breeders in the Czech Republic to carry out illegal trade in primates may presently constitute another danger of illegal trafficking as recently revealed cases concerning the beast. For the above reasons, we propose tightening the conditions for the transfer of primates and beasts within the Czech Republic by saying: "In Part One, Article I, the following amendment point shall be inserted after the previous amendment point 11: [[a point number?]] In Section 6, at the end of paragraph 1, the word or paragraph (d) is replaced by the following: 246/1992 Coll., and their hybrids or animals from the order of primates, primates." This is the first amendment. The second amendment is then a proposal which I will also briefly justify: we will propose, in points 1 and 2 of this proposal, a new obligation for breeders to report data to the State Veterinary Administration, which will be regulated by the implementing legislation and will relate to keeping records of dogs and their breeders permanently marked. And on point 3, the amendment is proposed in the light of the renumbering of part of the Government's proposal by an amendment adopted by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. It shall also replace the deferred effectiveness of the amended provisions on 1 January 2022. The point is that recently an obligation was laid down, for which many citizens, municipalities, but also the professional public, called, and this is compulsory identification of dogs, and at that time, when the matter was discussed, the corresponding records fell out of it. You will understand that a dog is bound to have a chip caught somewhere, such as fireworks, and its chip is read, so then it is not possible to track the owner, because there is no record yet. With this proposal, we are introducing the very simple record. The suggestion is: 1. In Part I of the first Article, the following amendment point shall be inserted after point 10: X. In Article 4, the following sentence is added at the end of paragraph 7: The breeder shall report to the Central Veterinary Administration of the State Veterinary Administration in writing or through the information system of the State Veterinary Administration the data provided by the implementing legislation. The existing amendment points are being numbered. 2. In Part 1 of Article I, the following amendment point shall be inserted after point 65: Y. In Article 48, at the end of paragraph 1, the dot is replaced by the dot and the following point (u) is added: (u) keeps and updates records of permanently marked dogs and their breeders in accordance with § 4, para. 7. The existing amendment points are being numbered. 3. Part Five: Part Five: Article 2 (1) (a) VI Efficacy This Act shall take effect on 14 December 2019, with the exception of points X and Y, which shall take effect on 1 January 2022. Thank you for the patience and attention you have been watching me with, and I ask for a positive third reading vote on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u15	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník is next in the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u16	Mr President, I have presented my amendment here in the general debate, so let me now sign up for it. It is introduced in the system under number 3316. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u17	Thank you. Mr David Pražák is next in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u18	Good evening, I would also allow myself to sign up for the amendment, which is under number 3327 in the system. This is an amendment which has two documents or two parts. More or less, the first is to minimize the possibility of illegal marketing of beef, so the possibility is changed in part, the number of animals slaughtered for domestic slaughter and the number 12 as 12 months - 24 months is replaced by the number 12 months. The second document, more or less, regulates the stricter operation of the State Veterinary Administration in order to avoid non-professional decision-making and treatment of animals in the slaughterhouse, and reads: "The inspection before slaughter and the inspection after slaughter of sick, exhausted or injured slaughter animals in the slaughterhouse must be carried out by an official veterinarian.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-007-026.u19	Thank you. I have therefore exhausted all applications in a detailed debate. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'll ask for any final words. There is no interest either from the Minister, so I am ending with this second reading of this proposal. Thank you. The next item is
