ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u1	16. Proposal by Monika Oborná and others to issue a law amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the Forests and on the Amendment and Amendment of Certain Acts (Forest Law), as amended /German Press 382/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I therefore point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. The Government's position has been delivered as Parliament's press 382/1. I ask that the proposal put forward by Mrs Monika Oborná, the appellants' representative. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u2	Have a good day. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I wish you a beautiful day and thank you for the floor. I would now like to introduce to you the amendment to the Forest Law, which we have tabled in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture in the framework of the barking calamity that we are dealing with in our forests. This subject is strongly affecting all of us. The kůrovcový calamity has now hit seven regions massively. Among the most affected or one of the most affected regions is the Vysočina Region, namely the Třebíčska region where I live, and I must say that the view of the disappearing forests really cannot be described. That is why I believe that if we can contribute together here by legislative change to combat this pest effectively and to contribute to saving our forests, then I dare say it is our duty. You will recall that in the summer of last year we discussed here the section Information of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment about bark sludge in the Czech Republic. In addition to information on specific measures addressed by the crisis crew at both national and regional level, it was also said that legislative measures would also be needed. The proposed amendment to the Forest Law is a legislative response to the biggest barking disaster in the last century. Its aim is to streamline the fight against bark. Recent experience shows that some of the provisions of the law that fulfill their purpose under normal conditions become an obstacle to effective action against bark. We therefore propose that the Ministry of Agriculture be introduced into the law in order to decide on the necessary measures derogating from the normal procedure under the forestry law. The amendment brings the possibility to deviate from the normal rules of forest management, especially as regards mining and forestation. The use of this legal authorisation is explicitly linked to emergency situations having the character of calamity, whether regional or national. Decisions on derogating measures will be implemented in the form of measures of a general nature which will enable the emergency situation to be responded effectively, but mainly in real time. It is practically impossible for such measures to be imposed in the form of an administrative decision with a number of participants in the order of hundreds of thousands. Management of administrative proceedings with a large number of participants and their indefinite circle would take several weeks or even more months, and we need to respond immediately. The measure of a general nature shall take effect on the day on which it is declared by the Ministry of Agriculture. This is a proposal based on the legislation of Section 115a of Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on the waters that are part of our legal order. The measure of a general nature will thus take effect or, if you wish, the date of hanging. In order to maintain the right to a fair trial, the possibility of a review as an appeal enshrined in the administrative order remains preserved. Ladies and gentlemen, specifically, the derogating measures provided for The Ministry of Agriculture, in the form of measures of a general nature, will cover the following specific areas: Firstly, it is an extension of the possibility of using other than prescribed reproductive material to restore the forest. The extensive shins that are produced after the extraction of barkwood in the woods need to be forested as quickly as possible at the moment. In the event of a lack of reproductive material complying with the applicable legislation, we will allow forest owners to temporarily reforest the available reproductive material regardless of the current quality and origin requirements for forest reproductive material. Here I would like to strongly point out that such an exceptional decision will be guaranteed by the Ministry of Agriculture as a central body and will be supported by an expert assessment by the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests as an expert institute. The aim is to avoid the degradation of shavings in terms of wind erosion, so that large areas are not dried up. Usage of so-called the preparation of the forest shall allow for the separation of the shavings into smaller areas on which the preparatory woods shall be gradually removed and, consequently, the areas shall be forested by trees which meet the requirements for reproductive material. This need also results, inter alia, from the fact that the size of the rolling shavings in terms of the areas of the individual shavings, but also of the total areas, exceeds the size of the shavings resulting from normal forest management. Furthermore, we will allow an extension of the deadline for wooding of the shavings. For forestation at certain sites it is necessary to establish the possibility to grant an exemption, respectively. extend the period for securing the crop. This seems particularly necessary on larger shavings of several hectares, tens of hectares in order, especially hundreds of hectares, where the legal period for securing the crops is currently five years, and this cannot be fulfilled. The existing way of extending this deadline at the individual request of the owner seems insufficient in the current circumstances. For example, it is also about stopping, virtually. repealing the obligation to implement forest protection measures in areas where they are already practically unnecessary and thus concentrate the processing and other capacities in the territory where the intervention is still meaningful. In practice, it is, for example, a waiver from the provision and registration of harmful agents and from the obligation to prevent the development, spread and multiplication of harmful organisms. This concerns, for example, the obligation to place prisoners in the woods. [[14.40 hours]] The last are exceptions to the obligation to carry out random extraction in such a way as to avoid the development, spread and multiplication of harmful organisms. In practice, this means that an exemption from the preferential processing of random extractions should be granted in such a way that only trees presenting a risk from the spread of harmful organisms, not so-called sterile land, which no longer pose a danger, are the places where bark is no longer present. Their extraction can therefore be temporarily postponed, once again in order to concentrate all processing and other capacity on the territory where the intervention is still meaningful. It is desirable to adopt the proposed legislation as soon as possible so that it can be used ideally already during April of this year, when further gradation of bark can be expected. The proposal was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and has the support of the government. Therefore, I would like to propose to the House that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading in accordance with § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinaryness of the current calamity requires really extraordinary measures. However, I must stress that none of the ones we are proposing here is aimed at restricting the rights of forest owners. On the contrary, we want to make it easier for owners to deviate from their obligations so that they can use the available capacities with the highest possible efficiency to intervene against the crust. I would like to ask you, colleagues, to support this amendment and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u3	Thank you. Before I ask the rapporteur to take the floor for the first reading of Mr Karel Tureček, I will read the apology. Mrs Eva Matyášová apologizes today between 16 and 19 o'clock on the ground of a foreign trip, Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologises from 14.30 to 15.10 o'clock on work grounds, and Mr Jáč apologizes at today's meeting from 16 o'clock to the end of the meeting. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Karel Tureček to give us an opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that Mrs Oborná has presented the purpose of the law, the purpose of the amendment comprehensively. At this point, I emphasise that this is indeed an extraordinary instrument for the Ministry of Agriculture, which will only be used under exceptional circumstances. As rapporteur, I recommend the adoption of this amendment of the law and, at the same time, the consent of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u5	I am now opening a general debate in which I have signed up with priority rights as the first Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mrs Vrecionová will then be prepared. Mr Holík is reporting with fact, but only after someone has spoken in the general debate, because you should respond to something. Now, therefore, Mr Kalousek and then factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of opposition Members are not in a very simple situation right now. Despite the parliamentary proposal, it is clear that this is a government initiative and a government that does not have our trust, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, wants or needs a blank check in the given situation for the implementation of the territorialisation of forests in terms of the match with the barkworm. We are aware that a truly extraordinary situation requires extraordinary means, rapid and operational action. Therefore, after long consideration, we did not want to incline to the veto against § 90. We are prepared to support the law at first reading, but we wanted to ask the Minister of Agriculture a few questions in the debate, which is not here, which I see rather uncomfortable, and therefore, please, if at least some questions could be answered by the Minister of the Environment, who, of course, is concerned, not from the point of view of direct management responsibility... [[The speaker dropped the cane and the Faltynek Member handed it to him.]] Thank you. We have some concerns, and I say this quite frankly and openly as someone who wants to support it, but we have some concerns about the Slovak road where there has been territorialisation, all the capacities available have been concentrated in some of the most vulnerable areas where there has been exploitation, and where there has been no extraction capacity, there has been completely everything in growth sprayed with pesticides. It may have brought some immediate effect, but according to our environmental experts, there has been long-term and often completely irreversible environmental damage. I therefore wanted to ask whether - even if they are not yet finished - we could at least hear some fundamental measures of a general nature, their philosophy. No one's seen it yet. We'll get you to hand them over, but we don't know what you're going to publish yet. We would like to hear whether the forest owners in the most endangered areas will or will not be deprived of the full obligation to intervene immediately against the bark, because if they are not deprived of the obligation and have no capacity to harvest, they will have nothing left but to spray those pesticides. We're just worried about the consequences. I would very much like to ask you, Minister of the Environment, if you wouldn't tell us a little bit more about the strategy, the territorialisation, the emergency measures and the measures of a general nature, so that we can vote more calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u7	Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Membership Club, is now entitled to priority rights. Mrs Vrecionová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. As a native Třebíčák, I also have to sign up for the novel. After all, I'm also signed under it. I think it is one of the effective measures to enable forest owners in a completely extraordinary situation, where forests not only in our district, but in a large part of the Republic due to the coincidence of those circumstances, which caused the barking calamity to emerge from the rigid word of the law, which governs all owners, large, medium, small, State, non-state, way of managing the forest and the way of finding and solving outbreaks of barking or barking sites. It is now that the calamity, at least in the district of Třebíč, is so vast that it is one big focus. What was once a green kingdom is now a rusty desert. Come and see, you don't even have to turn from the main roads, you'll see it everywhere. And where it didn't hit the bark of the spruce trees, it hit the dry pine trees and they look pretty much the same. That is why we have come up with this amendment, so we ask you this time to allow its acceptance at first reading, so that forest owners can immediately do what is already destroyed and where the beetle is no longer, let stand and devote themselves to what can first be saved for the economy, because barkwood is not quite easy to sell, and secondly, where it can still be effectively intervened against bark. So that's where we're going, among other things, in the novel, in this direction. For the record, the Minister of Agriculture was prepared for the debate, we had a rather detailed discussion about it yesterday, but now he is on his way, or maybe he has already gotten to Brussels, to the airport where the Commissioner concerned will deal with the very next problem, which is, and this is the question of control measures on imports of Polish meat, especially beef, but it turns out that there are other species that deserve attention. I am convinced that together with the petitioner, the rapporteur and other members of the agricultural committee, we are sufficiently qualified to explain any questions, as well as the Minister of the Environment, here. [[14.50 hours]] After all, what the Minister of Agriculture is now dealing with in Brussels is in the interests of consumer protection, therefore in the interests of protecting all of us, but this is not just about the beef meat and this context. If the Czech Republic can take effective measures in an emergency situation to protect the interests of its own citizens, this is a broader position than that. So please, this time, let's not be so critical of the Minister's absence, defending the interests of all of us. I say it in full consciousness. I am not a government MP, I underline that I should not be accused of defending government parties again, but I am a farmer, I am Vice-President of the Agricultural Committee. And the context of the cases that have occurred here in recent months is simply that even a large person like Minister Toman can't be in the same place twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u9	And now, with the factual remark of Mr Jaroslav Holík. Member Vrecionová will be ready. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is necessary that we do something about the state of the Czech forests. I'm not gonna say the reasons why we've been meddling in the woods for no reason, that we've been putting out monocultures for no reason. We need to figure out what we can do about it. In any case, I will sign this law. But there are a few things that we can still fix. One. Back in the '90s, we used to turn forest businesses into stock cards. And the stock cards need to produce profit. That's why we have large-scale mining, where the landscape is so open that it's drying out, and every fault is prone to wind, where half-breeds occur, and the crust is spreading. Next thing. We have ripped down these forest businesses by the fact that the so-called trees are currently being sold standing up. Before, when the whole cycle was closed from planting to growing the forest to processing, everyone knew very well what the tree was in. We don't know at the moment because someone's taking it away. And I would very much like to increase the role of a forester. Back in the day, that forester, when he was walking in the woods with a dog, he knew about every spruce, saw when somewhere the top was going to dry, that it was necessary to chop everyone out. Today, we've turned the foresters into officers who sit in the office filling out nonsense forms. So please, let's get back to what was here before. And I'll say one thing: the damage to the woods wasn't caused by the bark, it's what we did, and he's just punishing us for our mistakes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u11	I will now ask for a performance by Mrs Vrecionová. Mr. Holomčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u12	Hello. Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues, Madam Speaker, rapporteur. I suppose no one will suspect that I would spare this coalition in some way, rather I am often very critical, but nevertheless I have co-signed this amendment and I will be very pleased to speak for the Civic Democrats' club now, if we support it and if it is approved as soon as possible. My colleague The specialist here described in detail what everything in the novel is, so I guess I don't have to comment on that. However, we not only talked to the agricultural committee last year, but also to other places in the forest owners. I was also approached by a number of citizens who, for example, pointed out why forest owners cut down dry matter when there is a forest next to it that is freshly attacked by bark, and that is what they should be doing. I firmly believe that in these extreme cases, such as this barking calamity, they would untie their hands to forest owners in order to actually intervene in those places where it is needed, where it still makes sense, where there is a living barking ground, so that they do not have to hang trappers on dead trees or simply unload those dead trees that can wait. [[needed]] So really, this amendment would be very helpful. It is also necessary to adopt it as quickly as possible because a number of experts say that we are going to have a very difficult year in this regard as well. So I'm begging for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u13	I will now ask for Radek Holomčík's speech and prepare for Mr Marian Jurečka. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you and, in particular, explain the opinion of the pirate MP. We are looking at this amendment critically, for two such groups of reasons. One is a general, long-term, long-term failure of the state in relation to forests, especially those of the state. When we look at the development of state forests since the revolution, since the 1990s, and we line up the individual steps and changes that have been happening in some chronological series, we actually see why this calamity is now what it is. Starting in the 1990's, the transformation of state forests, when some 65,000 people were released and the fact that forests and forest farmers of the Czech Forests had largely lost their ability to react to the development of the forest. It also went further, which resulted in the 2012 adoption of the Wooden Book, when all responsibility for those steps was transferred to external entities, but practically that responsibility remained in some intermediate space and no one is actually really responsible for what is going on in the woods. And we see it pretty well today. Then, in fact, it followed up on this in 2015 with a strategy or concept of the operation of forests. And even though at that time in some forest administrations in northern Moravia the bark was proven and with forgiveness ran like a black hand, the concept does not reflect this fact. And these fundamental changes in the forest law should have come at least two years earlier. That's what I'd like to say for starters. But that's not a mistake or a petitioner, it's not even a mistake of the present absent minister. As for the critical view of the novel itself, here's what I'd like to say. The proposed paragrafo text is too brief and, in substance, not specific, without clear limits, while the scope of the issue and the severity of the impact is considerable. These effects will have a long-term character. For example, if we allow the forestation of semi-calamity shavings to be used by genetically non-originating materials of all kinds of provenience, we can be sure that newly established forests will encounter major problems with stability and resistance in the future. Next point. For example, on page 7, the explanatory memorandum to the amendment to the Forest Law states: "If a derogation regime is established under the Forest Law, then it cannot be treated in terms of the right to act contrary to the Decree as an implementing regulation to the Law. " In fact, however, the decrees and their established professional principles ensure the quality of the management and quality of future forests. In fact, these principles will be violated. However, the effects of this infringement of decrees on the ecostability of future crops based on planting material of inappropriate provenance are no longer addressed in the explanatory report. I'm going to ask a series of rhetorical questions here, which then leads to our position. Like I said, they're rhetorical, so I don't expect to be answered. The critical point of view is that we don't actually distinguish - and I'll be talking about it in a minute - the owners. Basically, in relation to private owners, the amendment may have a positive effect, but we are concerned about the impact on the state forests. And that's actually what my whole criticism is about in this part. If we now allow any changes that can... and are likely to create problems in the future, we need to ask who will pay for the problems in the future. If it's the woods, now that they have no reserves, the reserve has been dissolved for growing jobs. [[15.00 hours]] The amendment and its explanatory report completely avoids the issue of different systems of management on state and non-state forest assets. Non-state property often sells wood in its own direction and does not so often use complex outsourcing. Larger private holdings even grow seedlings themselves, so they have no reason to demand a derogation regime to allow non-originating provenance seedlings to be used. We understand, however, that the owners of smaller forests, as well as the owners of the larger forests, where there has been a great deal of damage to the crust-calamity, there may be a need here. Nor does the amendment provide for a mechanism for the forest owner to demonstrate the lack of provenly suitable planting material in the region in which the derogation is to be introduced. I will give an example relating to the Forests of the Czech Republic. The company working for the Forests of the Czech Republic in the Moravian-Silesian Region buys standard planting material suitable for provenance at the producer in the Králové Hradec Region. An emergency situation will be announced in the Moravian-Silesian region and the possibility of derogating measures. In what way will the lack of proven suitable planting material in the Moravian-Silesian Region be demonstrated in order to use the planting material of inappropriate provenance in accordance with the amendment? On page 7 of the explanatory memorandum, it is also stated: "In the disaster attack zone also in the buffer zone, where the obligation to place defensive measures - traps, trappers should be abandoned. " It is no longer specifically stated what defence measures are involved. The definition of a calamity and buffer zone is missing. Next point. If the explanatory note on page 6 in the comment on § 32 para. 1 to 3 states that it is necessary to have the possibility to impose measures on the defined territory, such as focusing processing and other capacities on the territory where the intervention is still meaningful, then I ask how the authors of the amendment want to force subcontractors of the trade partners of the Czech Republic to use their equipment, but also with horses or chainsaws, to drive to work, for example, 180 kilometres away from the region in which they operate and live. And I would remind you that the contractual partners of the Forests of the Czech Republic, meaning mining companies, realize a large part of the mining activities in the state forests through subcontractors. Nor is it clearly explained how it will take place within the defined territory, which may, for example, be a region or more regions, to enforce the transfer of private production capacities from one property, such as municipal or private forests, to another, for example, to state property, or from one contractual relationship for forests to another. The authors also avoid explaining how they will address the economic damage suffered by owners of mining and other capacities, whose forced transfer within the defined territory is to take place from the decision of the imposed measures. I understand the time distress in which we find ourselves, what this proposal was created here, but I think that, given the expected effects of change, it is highly problematic that there has not been any inter-resurrection commentary, which should be a government amendment, nor an assessment of the effects of regulation. And actually, we didn't pick up practically any discussion with the professional public. The one before the motion. Of course, things are going on right now, but that's actually when we're discussing the proposal here. So much for the law itself. This law creates some legislative framework for certain measures, which are then specified in the decree of the Ministry of Agriculture in general. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Mlynář here, who, of course, is not here, for basically fulfilling what he promised at the meeting of the subcommittee on forestry the week before last, when he promised us that before the discussion we would get the draft measure available to meet him. That's what happened. So once again, I thank the Deputy Minister and his colleagues from the Ministry who handed it over to us. And since this measure of a general nature is actually the implementing regulation of the amendment that we are discussing today, I would also like to comment on a few things from the decree itself. If the general measure in point one is intended to enable standing dry trees to grow until the end of 2022, on the basis of what expert discussion did this take place? How will the safety of forest workers who will later move in these dead ones be ensured? And how will the risks of forest fires be addressed? Because the land, it's basically like you guys put a lot of giant matches next to each other. Basically little is enough, and there are risks of relatively large fires. So it is certainly necessary to ask how these risks are opened. The Ministry of Agriculture will allow the extension of the two-year forestation obligation to five years. How will forest soil protection be addressed against erosion and degradation? And there's another big question mark. The comprehensive contracts competing with the Forests of the Czech Republic are for five years. I would certainly be interested in how contractual relations with the winners of the Forest of the Czech Republic tender will be treated. The measure will lead to a delay in investment by the state company Forests of the Czech Republic in the forestation of calumny shavings. Or it can lead to him. And actually, I suppose that's part of his point. How will future funding be dealt with? There's no danger of creating a snowball effect, which means that the costs will roll over in years to come, and in five, six, we'll have a huge deficit here in seven years that the company won't be able to deal with at all? In a state where no transfer from the state budget to the state enterprise is possible? The next point, and it's the last one, I promise, of the measure that raises questions, is the intention of leaving 20 percent of the areas of the calumny shavings unforested. It is proposed to leave a five-metre strip without wooding on the calumny shavings every 20 metres. Is the aim of achieving that 20 per cent of the areas of calumny shavings do not have to be wooded at all? And again, I ask what expert discussion this idea has gone through and how it will be ensured that there is no degradation and erosion of the soil on these origins. What are the precautions going to be? The questions I have asked - and I repeat once again that they were rhetorical - mean two things to us. On the one hand, we will have to monitor and monitor how these changes affect the practice and the real state of forests in the work of both the agricultural committee and, in particular, the subcommittee on forestry. So if we want to play the role of Parliament controlling the government. And I will definitely propose these points in the future. This is also the result of our position on this proposed amendment. We won't support her because we see a great risk. And we're not going to support it, let's say, on a precautionary basis. On the other hand, it is certainly not our ambition to prevent the Department of Agriculture from trying to do something about the calamity. So we will not try to veto the proceedings under Section 90. And one last thing. I will mention this at the next point where we will propose a resolution on this House press. I'll just say in a nutshell. I think for the future of our control work here in The House is extremely important for us to know what led to the situation that is now. That will be the resolution that I will be talking about in the following point. That's all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u15	Now, on the point of fact, the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. I don't have another factual one yet, so Mr. Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would have responded to one part of my previous speaker's performance. And since the Minister of Agriculture is not here, I would ask the Minister of Finance how much has been drawn from our forests into the state budget in recent years. Then we say - we don't have reserves, we don't have money. But that's what the reserves are created for when it's needed, so the company can get them involved. So I would like to know, because I don't think about how much the state budget has improved by bringing the forests of the Czech Republic to the state budget in 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015. And then I'm definitely going to add the four numbers to figure out what the total sum of those four years is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u17	There. I will now ask Mr Marian Jurečka to speak and Mr Jan Birke will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u18	Hello, Mr President, member and member of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me comment on this point, which we have, because I am one of the Members who have also co-signed under this legislative proposal. To begin with, I would like to respond to my colleague Holomčík in some of his comments, and I would like to mention some facts. He was here talking about the crucial problem being the management of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic. As a member of the agricultural committee, I suppose he was at an exit meeting in the UHÚL and he could see a presentation showing that the forests of the Czech Republic were among those with the smallest percentage of shavings and calamity mining. So when we saw that time, for example. We also saw various types of private owners, municipal, urban, church, so there were forests of the Czech Republic among them at the low level. Let me also say no, as has been said here, that no one is responsible for this. Of course, here's the management of the company, which is responsible for how the business is run, how it operates in the field, how it fulfills the diction of the law. It is also controlled by supervisory authorities. So that's what a Member, a nota bene member of the agricultural committee, should probably know and should have information. Moreover, in a situation where he also saw the presentation materials, which clearly showed how the forests of the Czech Republic approached the matter. However, now to the law as such, or to the draft of this law. I must say that we have already discussed this legislation in the second half of 2017, when we saw that it is necessary for the Ministry to have a simpler, faster, more operational instrument than just the current wording of the law and to wait for how the various ORPs, or officials in the municipalities with extended scope, will respond to the catastrophic situation, albeit under the methodological guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture. It turned out that it was far from always ideal. I can say parallel. The veterinary law and the approach that today allows the State Veterinary Administration to respond operationally quickly to unforeseen events. We have extraordinary veterinary measures here, which is in principle something similar, which we are going to decide here when, in fact, outside the normal framework of the law, it can decide, outside normal procedures, that emergency veterinary measures will be imposed, which will solve some catastrophic impact disease situation so that we can manage the situation quite quickly and operationally. We are actually saying by this minor legislative regulation that the proposal, the regulation of a general nature will be issued, but it will not have to be followed by the procedure, which I had in person as the Minister of Resort, when we tried to suspend the planned toll mining at the time, in order to give priority to the calamity mining, so only the time period of about 50 days and the subsequent settlement of tens, perhaps even in some cases it may be hundreds of comments, it can actually take the resort several months and prevent it from operating intervention, which is needed at that moment in some territory of the Czech Republic. So, of course, there has to be a justification here, it has to be clearly justified by what measures are being taken. And they are made primarily so that we can make it possible that the intervention that will be carried out in the forest will be effective. That it will be possible here, as my colleague Holomčík spoke about the planting material, this is a matter where the Institute for Forest Treatment will also express itself expertly on this issue, he will make clear recommendations. And our point is that in a situation where kindergartens four or five years ago do not count on some kindergarten situation where today, according to current fielding, they do not have enough planting material, although the owner would love to plant something else, so we need to make it possible to do our utmost to avoid unnecessary erosion events so that the land is forested as soon as possible. That's why the flexibility in the operational transfer of planting material from another part of the Republic. And yet it's still a conservative approach, there's still this procedure controlled by the Forest Economic Treatment Institute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u19	I would ask you to remain calm so that the Member may speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u20	So I think that even in the explanatory report these things are quite well described. The issue of possible chemical spraying or the application of insecticide active substances has also been mentioned here. Whoever is a little familiar with the situation knows that theoretically the forest owner could be using it today. He could try, but rationally speaking, economically, it's a very difficult matter. Even practically making it happen is a very complicated thing. So there's nothing here that will newly open this possibility beyond the current wording of the law. So even here, I wouldn't see the whole worry. And when we look at the matter in time, I think it's really worth it to be discussed and approved at first reading, because when we talk to the professional public as well as to NGOs, they say - we could imagine some more ideal, better adjustment, but simply given how the weather is developing at the end of February, which will probably have an impact on the repeated multiplication of the leachate, so they call for this to be possible as soon as possible, so that the beginning of the growing season can eventually take advantage of this principle in some parts of the Republic. So the way I see it, as Members here, we try to have more operational options here, as Members of Parliament's proposal here, after several months of work and from the Ministry, we allow this to happen. From the logic of the matter could not even be an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, although I think that both the forestry public and non-governmental organisations followed this proposal quite closely. And while with reservations, with exceptions to certain small ones, they support the proposal. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u21	Now I'm going to read two apologies, and I have two factual points here. Mr Holomčík and then Mr Kalousek will be ready. So, an apology from Mrs Ivana Nevludová from today's meeting from 15 to 15.30 on account of her business meeting. And then Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 5:45 and 7:00 for personal reasons. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Jurečka through the President. I'd like to ask you one thing. Mr. Colleague, you were talking about some responsibility. I'd like to know what responsibility you were talking about. Who is responsible for disbanding the state-owned company's reserves, including the four-billion-dollar reserve for growing activities, so that the company has to deal with the bank account at this point, it has to deal with financing from somewhere to be able to respond to the calamity? Who is responsible for the fact that in 2015, when it became clear that there was a calamity in parts of the territory of North Moravia and Silesia, such a concept of a state enterprise was adopted that absolutely does not reflect this fact? Nobody's responsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u23	I will then ask for Mr Kalousek's speech. I have two more facts here - Mr Jurečka and Mr Jurečka He's getting ready. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Stanjura asked the Minister of Finance. It seems unfair to me to bother her, so I'll take the liberty of answering what happened. In 2012, we really promoted the concept in the framework of anti-crisis measures to divert money from the Forests of the Czech Republic to the state budget. For the first time, the contribution was in 2013 and it was 6 billion. Crowns. Petr Nečas' government decided on this. In 2014, Prime Minister Fischer's government decided to make a contribution of 6.5 billion. Crowns. And that was to end, because at that moment it was clear that the crisis was over, and it was supposed to be the financial reserves of the Czech Republic. But in 2015, from the decision of the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, the levy was 8.22 billion. Crowns. In 2016, 5.6 billion. CZK 3,5 billion in 2017 Crowns. It's always paid up, so how much will be collected now in 2018, I don't know, the government hasn't decided. In any case, together, it's almost 30 billion. CZK, which the state budget even at a time when the barking calamity was already raging and at the same time there was a high boom, drew the state budget from the Forests of the Czech Republic into the state budget. What you can eat today, don't leave till tomorrow!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u25	Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Zdeněk Podal will be ready. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u26	A glimpse of history. The fact that since 2014 there has been really extraordinary pressure from the Ministry of Finance on the maximum amount of contributions from the Forests of the Czech Republic and from other state enterprises to the Treasury is evident. I'm not covering it up. At many meetings, I guessed with the Minister of Finance that the rate of contributions would be lower than the Ministry of Finance's request. More or less, it was always some sort of final compromise. However, it was agreed that the funds needed by the Forests of the Czech Republic for their investments and for their growing activities were available. The fact that over the last year and a half of the financial management of the Forests of the Czech Republic in the context of cash flow management has made a mistake in setting up the question of contributions and the issue of termination of funds linked to accounts is an issue concerning 2018. When they saw this situation, they didn't have to pay the amount they had planned in the draft, they could keep it, and today they could operate fine within cash flow with about 3 billion. Crowns. To be fair, the needs for intervention in investment and cultivation and the management of the catastrophic situation today are not those which would limit the activity of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic in managing this situation. Now, of course, it is up to this government how it will react to this in the future. However, if you are referring to the fact that there are 2 or 4 billion in the Czech Republic's accounts, it does not affect the management of the calamity situation at the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic. Of course, it would be perfectly ideal for the funds that have been made available in the past to be fairly said by the Ministry of Finance: well, from some type of sector, these funds have been made. Therefore, when the Minister of Agriculture comes today and says: I have notified support for middle and small forest owners in the Czech Republic and I need 3 billion to do so, the Ministry of Finance should say: we have them and we will give them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u27	I will therefore now ask Mr Zdeněk to Podal a statement with a factual point. So far the final de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Chairman of the Forestry Sub-Committee, I can say that the subcommittee has dealt with this issue for a long time. We had the opportunity to visit many locations affected by both drought and bark. And the last subcommittee, the 7th meeting, dealt with this issue on 19 February. It was with the participation of many experts as well as representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. What can I say? Based on visits to individual forest sites, when I take this from the point of view of round tables and all the meetings that have taken place, all these experts say: please do something, do it quickly, every step is good. That is why I intercede - I supported this initiative and I think it is a step in the right direction. There may be others, but please don't let these people down, waiting for us to help them somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u29	Thank you. We will now return to the standard general debate, so Mr Jan Birke will prepare Mr Jan Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak on the proposal of Mrs Monika Oborná and others to issue a law amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the forests and on the amendment and addition of certain laws, the so-called forest law, as amended, House print 382 for three reasons. The first reason is to express to you the positive position of the Social Democracy Club on this press with clear support from the plaintiffs. The second reason is actually not only in combination and discussion, but also in terms of the position of Minister of Agriculture, who also agrees, and part of our club, with the amendment just tabled, and that it was actually consulted with the Ministry of Agriculture. The third reason I will come back to in the end is also from the point of view of ammunition, that is, the mayor who has in his own portfolio, when we have roughly, the town of Náchod, over a thousand hectares of forest, which is, of course, an integral part of this parliamentary draft. As I have already said, I will allow myself to give my consent to the proposal in the first reading. According to the proposed draft law, it creates a prerequisite for prompt and effective solutions in the framework of measures against bark sludge, which is clear and clear, and is closely related to other measures which are the content of the Government's draft amendment to the forest law already approved 4. 2. 2019 by the Government and the Chamber of Deputies under discussion as press 408. The preparation of this document has been coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture in order to create legislative conditions as soon as possible to manage the calamity in the forests since the spring period of this year. Here I want to follow up on my previous speakers from the point of view of getting closer to spring and we all feel that the crusty calamity will not be avoided again, because the winter was not as, let's say, as we know it, it means that not a large amount of snow has occurred, but, above all, frosts and so on. For this reason, it is part of this parliamentary proposal and the proposal for its approval at first reading, as has been said. The proposal establishes the authorisation of the Ministry of Agriculture to decide in the form of a measure of a general nature on procedures derogating from the selected provisions of the forestry law. In areas defined by measures of a general nature with an increased incidence of barking, forest owners will receive exceptions so that they do not have to take anti-crust measures that are not sufficiently effective in the worst affected areas. For example, one of them may be the possibility of delaying the extraction of dry trees, from which the so-called crusty tree flew out. With this measure, forest owners will be able to concentrate their mining into places where forest crops can still be saved. It is necessary to respond to emergency situations in real time. The measure of a general nature must thus take effect on the date of posting on the official plate of the Ministry of Agriculture, taking into account the exceptions to the provisions of the forestry law which the law allows. This is an exceptional instrument of the Ministry of Agriculture as the central body of the state forest administration, which will be used only in exceptional circumstances, when an emergency situation occurs in the territory of two or more regions, and only in favour of the participants, it is the owners of forest land. As I have already announced, at the end of my speech, I speak here for three reasons: express the positive position of the Minister of Agriculture, the entire social democracy club, but above all the mayor of the city. In addition to the forests owned by the state, the church forests, the private forest owners, of course, also the towns possess relatively large, large hectares of wooded land. We are actually in a situation similar to that referred to here by a colleague. It has, by your means, Mr Vice-President, when unfortunately there are often more than one, often ten private forest owners and are unable to agree with each other. [[15.30 hours]] I'm not saying that this is a specific case, nor am I to say that this case is in Náchodského. I just want to say that the moment that this forest, which is privately owned, comes into the forest and is not extracted in time, is not removed in time, the zone is not enclosed in time and is in the immediate vicinity of the state forest or in the immediate vicinity of the municipal forest or, respectively, the forest owned by the city or the village, you will do nothing. You're just gonna get the crusty tree jumped or flew into the forest I'm talking about, owned by the city. As mayor, of course, I am intercede for the approval and great support of Mrs Oborná just to approve this document at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u31	So now I'm gonna ask... you, Minister, for de facto? You wait. But you have priority rights, but two more are logged in. Okay. Mr. Zahradník. I will ask you to stand down and prepare Mr Martinů and then Minister Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I will first express my support for the proposal submitted, as Mrs Vrecionová also expressed in favour of the ODS. Although I admit that I have some doubts and concerns, not that I would question the need for rapid intervention and the need to give state or private forest managers some assurance as to how, in the coming year, the crusty calamity will come to life again, how to defend it. If we're territorializing, if we let those forests that have already flown out of the crust, if there's no real danger, without actual intervention, maybe we'll be a little bit closer to the principle of non-attractiveness. In my opinion, it is necessary to reject this principle fundamentally in the forests of the economy and, as soon as possible, to carry out planting and restoring the forest in these locations. Secondly, maybe I'd like to put in a little bit of a word for someone who can't defend himself, and that's the spruce that's often seen here as one of the perpetrators of the crusty calamity. It's hard to imagine how without spruce we would have realized a whole series of construction activities that still have a boom. I, ladies and gentlemen, have noted two statements from my previous speakers. Lady Oborná, the designer, said: "The sight of the disappearing forests cannot be described," she sighed with great bitterness and difficulty. My colleague Kováčik said again: What was once a green kingdom is now brown - or I do not know whether he said brown or red - desert. These statements could also be explained as an expression of a twofold approach to the problem experienced by this House in recent years. When I gave similar sentences here three or four years ago, when the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act was discussed here, and in connection with that also the Šumava National Park Act, or its Senate version, my opinions were questioned, they were not taken seriously. It was said that the forest, as it remains after the barking process in Sumava, was actually a natural, beautiful forest, and there were cross-cutting political parties, then without distinction the coalition and opposition, voted for the vote of the President of the Republic and for the introduction of the law, which provides for no interference, on the above-half surface of national parks. And that law is now in force. I would also like to comment on the foresters. One of my previous speakers has already spoken of this. I know a job as a forester isn't just an ordinary profession. It never was. Rather, it is belonging to a situation which brings certain advantages and, of course, also puts a very important responsibility on the part of the member. One of the responsibilities that had been here for a long time was that the forester had an obligation to search and destroy in his area, in his field trees attacked by a bark tree. Doubt in this duty, neglecting it then meant a very significant offense, and it brought significant punishment to the person who committed it. This may have been true even 20 years ago, but then the view of these obligations gradually began to change, and the change may have led to a subconscious change in the sight of foresters in their duties. Starting with the Kyrill Orcan in 2007, the barkworm was declared a part of nature. At that time, Minister Bursík, who, together with environmental activists, is responsible for this change, declared at the Senate hearing that bark is part of nature, as such belongs to it, and he accepts all responsibility for what this process will bring to the national park, especially to Šumava. We have, of course, a situation in Sumava that we are not talking about today. Today Sumava is not a topic of discussion. I don't think any of you want to discuss this too much anymore, but I still have to mention it here. I must mention that we have actually made the National Park of Šumava, of its large part, a kind of barkhouse. There it does not intervene on a large part, there we see it as part of nature, and in another part of the territory of our republic it is for us the archenemy that needs to be liquidated, fought against, spent on it significant means. I agree with that. I am in favour of the status obligation to intervene against the crust, although I am not a forester myself, I do not belong to the condition, but I know many of its members well. I know their way of thinking and how they feel about the current perception of this issue. In Šumava National Park, there is now a discussion on zoning. The South Bohemia Region, which I represent in the Council of the National Park, will undergo this argument with the Park Administration on Monday, 11 March, and I must say that our important argument that we will apply will be the fight against the crust, not only in the form that we are running here, but also in the territory of the National Park of Šumava. So this will be the first question that I would like to ask the ministries and to which I will then ask for an answer in the resolution that I intend to submit at the following point, which is then waiting for us as a proposed part of the accompanying resolution. I know that Minister Brabec, who has properly postponed his performance only after he can respond to what I say, says that it is nonsense that the barkworm will not fly anywhere, that the barkworm will reach a maximum of a few dozen meters. It's not true. Under appropriate conditions the bark can attack the significant distance of forests located in its neighborhood. It needs to be evaluated. We need to know the history. And that will be another question, which I will then put forward in the accompanying resolution, or in its proposal. And then there will be another question that I will raise to the next problem. Krůrovec does not only fly as insects equipped with some flying equipment, i.e. wings, but also spreads through transport when the cut bark logs are imported outside the territory of the national park and are distributed throughout the Republic by being sold to interested parties for its purchase. So that's going to be my third question, which I'm going to ask, and then I'm going to do at the next point. I know these are things that many of you who have been in the previous composition of the House don't want to hear about. At that time, despite all our arguments, you voted in favour of the amendment to Act 114 on the Conservation of Nature and Landscape. In this way you partly caused the continuation of the barking calamity in Šumava and thus partly you are to blame for the formation of this calamity also in another territory of the Czech Republic. It's just not right. It's not good to say that in one territory the bark is part of nature, we have to leave it, and on the other part of our territory, the bark is the archenemy number one. These are things that are not right and that do not belong here to be said, which is why I think I have the right to ask my questions to the Minister of Agriculture and to the Minister of the Environment on the following point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u33	So that was Mr. Zahradník. Now, then, Mr Martinů, Minister Brabec will be prepared, so far the last application. I would ask the House for peace so that the Member may speak. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u34	Good day, my dear colleagues. Allow me to do a short gig. I would like to draw attention to the biggest problem of our country, which I consider absolutely rapid drying of our landscape. I think you've all noticed how water disappears every year, and if we look at the reasons I personally see as strong - let's see what we've done in a hundred years. In a hundred years we dried up about one to two million wet land originally, 90 per cent of the watercourses that meandered and watered the valleys, we broke down into deep troughs, so we can say that the water was constantly dwindling and dwindling, year after year, and on less and less water we planted intensive agricultural production. We haven't grown 20 meters, we've grown 100 meters, we've all been bred, we've got wheat, we've grown corn. So the water is actually dwindling and dwindling, and on the other hand, our production is constantly strengthening and growing, and it's all about water. I think the situation is completely alarming, and the question is, what can we do about it? I also think I remember when we visited the workplace in Ruzyni with our agricultural committee last year - Mr.Faltýnek nods, I am glad he remembers - so I took two findings. Very serious knowledge. There was a scientist who had drilled probes in the lawn and examined the rate of water loss in relation to our agricultural modern procedures. He didn't listen to him, only I did. But I remember, since then, I've been reporting it in my neighborhood, and he has clearly shown that the greatest water loss in our classic agricultural practices is a deep orb. With the deep orb, we throw out the last residue of moisture and the moisture is in the fumes in a few hours and the fumes are carried away outside the territory of the Czech Republic. Then we moved on, and there was this sympathetic scientist, and I asked him, "My colleague, please tell me, what's the mistake? For generations, we've been taught that forests hold water. And today we see the tragedy, especially on Třebíč, Telč, on the Highlands and elsewhere, that we have the woods dry. Millions of dry trees." And he wouldn't let me finish and he'd come at me with a counter-question. The question was very logical. I'm completely blushed that I've never heard it, not on TV, not in the papers, not in any expert debate. And the question was, do I know how much water per year, how much water doesn't fall through the treetops? I thought I'd give him an answer, and the gentleman was faster than me, and he wouldn't let me think of it and he would answer me - 40 percent or more. Gentlemen, if we look and make a balance with the water, it's a complete disaster. According to all available data it is stated that the Czech Republic has the largest percentage of pupiled land in Europe. The figure is 71 %, Austria, Germany 50, 60. There are many researches that have confirmed that the difference between the fumes between the lawn and the arable land is 150 mm to the detriment of ploughed soil. Those are billions of ccs of water we're losing. Furthermore, when we look at the area of forests, according to available information in 1750 there were 1,100,000 hectares of forest in the Czech lands. Then the government of Marie Terezie, which supported the forests, by the end of the 19th century it was already 1 900 000 hectares of forest and currently the phenomenon of cadastral books was registered 2 676 000 hectares of forest. But be careful, that's not all. In addition, since the 1950's after the war, another 418,000 hectares have grown arbitraryly, either black or self-rocketed. So today we can say that we have 40 percent of the forest. To do that, we have 70 percent of the ploughed soil, all of which is a huge water claim, and we've been constantly driving the water out of the country for generations. Well, what's the situation? The way she is. Dear and kind, it's all about water. Without water, there is nothing running, and it is a clear conclusion that we have simply caused many damage to the next generations, we have destroyed the landscape and today we are reaping well deserved, unfortunately deserved fruit. And I say that the biggest problem in the Czech Republic is and will be water. There won't be any water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u35	So now the actual one has come up, so I will ask Mr Josef Kott and consequently, with priority right, the Minister and then Mr Čižinský. So you have your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear fellow Members, the reaction to the previous speaker through Mr President. Well, we can't really mean that where it steaks, it's wrong that the fumes are getting higher and that we're demoting the soil. Exactly the other way around. However, where the steak is used, farm fertilizers are prepared, so it is possible to soak in water. This, which is said to be somewhere where monocultures are grown, is not it, it's minimizing. It's minimizing, all the water that rains, so it runs out, and with the holines, it's the same thing when we lose cover on the forest soil, so we increase the fumes, increase the drain, and it's all against keeping the water in the landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u37	Now, then, Minister Brabec with priority rights, and as the last member of Mr Čižinský will be prepared. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues. I will also be very brief, even though we could talk here for hours and undoubtedly in the coming months, but now we will talk here for hours. Because of this barking calamity, I used a few months ago the comparison that the journalists quickly adopted, that it was the barking calamity of the greatest since Marie Terezie. But that is not true, it is, this barking calamity, the greatest in the history of the Czech lands. And now I don't know if maybe from the Reich of Sámův, in any case at least a thousand years. Logically. Because there have never been so many spruce monocultures in the Czech Republic before Marie Terezia, or in Czechoslovakia, or, say, in the Czech countries as they are now. So it's been in this mess for quite a while. I'm just sorry there's one thing that these people, or some of those people who are so actively calling on the state to do and to help, and they're right, because it's a national problem, it's not just an economic disaster, it's an environmental disaster, it's the same people in 2006, 2007, 2010 and others, when scientists, and we have a lot of very good foresters and forest experts, they're talking about that we're having a big problem and that, for example, Bavaria is already preparing for the problem in its state forests, so we're here pretending that there's nothing going on and that we can't be involved. So it's just for the introduction. Why do I say that? Because it's clear that none of us, or the greatest experts, can know what will eventually work. So far it has always turned out that against such a crusty calamity you were only able to help nature itself, because it is a scale that is catastrophic, and I say again, far more catastrophic than anyone has ever had experience with it. The Ministry of Environment also agreed to this amendment as part of the first reading approval for the very reason I was just talking about. That we would also have some other comments, other comments, but we believe that this is a step in the right direction. And we will undoubtedly also want to participate in the preparation, or let's say in the discussion, because the preparation, some proposal for a measure of a general nature, has already come about for a simple reason. Firstly, there is a need to make a special regime, or another regime, a derogation for those protected areas other than in the farm forests. I think it's obvious. And the Ministry of Agriculture is interested in the proposal for a measure of a general nature to discuss with us and also with the owners, because, my colleague, She knows it well, she's from the Highlands, and only in the Highlands is about 50,000 small forest owners. Many of them are people who, I dare say - or some of them may not even know exactly where the forest is, and they certainly don't know how to take care of it under the law of the forest. They all need to be sent a clear signal and loosen their hands and really into the so-called. Flying land, already sterile, has no point in investing the capacity we have today. [[15.50 hours]] There was also mention here, I think President Kalousek spoke about it, or he asked, we will certainly also want to make it clear that it is not an obligation for chemical treatment to be so called. Sprayed against the crust. It will certainly take priority to use mechanical methods of rendering, debarking, etc., and definitely the chemistry should be used at most in wood landfills and not directly in the forest. These are all things that appear in the measure of a general nature as in the implementing regulation. It should be our goal that all the experts, and there are a number of them in this state, face this disaster together, and agree on some common practice. This will certainly also be in the context of the debate on measures of a general nature. [[Noise in the hall.]] For me and for the Ministry of the Environment, I would like to motivate you to approve today, even if you may have some reservations, this amendment at first reading, to buy time, because unfortunately, the weather situation is such that the new generation is going to hatch and fly soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u39	Now, as the last Member of Čižinský to sign up. Please, you have the floor. And I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u40	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to talk about the chemistry here, so I'm glad there's been these promises, which means the chemistry will be used in landfills, but not in the woods. So I just ask that this be reflected in the measure of a general nature and that the Ministry of the Environment should play the part in that which belongs to it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u41	That was the last post so far. I will look around to see if there is any interest in speaking up in the general debate. I don't see interest. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words if there's any interest. Madame Oborná. Interested? [[Yes.]] And then Mr Tureček. [[He doesn't want to.]] You're not interested. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the broad political support of this amendment. I really appreciate it. And I think it's proof that we really don't care about saving our woods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-010-016.u43	We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of this proposal. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 382 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I will rejoin and summon Members and Members to the Chamber. I have an application for check-out. I'll check you all out. Log in with your voting cards again, everyone. I will repeat once again for Members who have not been in the Chamber, what we will be voting on. We will vote on the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 382 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 164 Members signed in for 144, versus 0. The motion was accepted. I am therefore opening a detailed debate in which I have no Members. I'll look around. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for any final words, but I don't think you're interested anymore, so we're going to take a vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with Monika Oborná's proposal and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the forests and on the amendment and addition of certain laws, as amended, according to House press 382." [[Forest Law]] Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 103, 163 Members signed in for 145, versus 2. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. This is the end of the discussion. So now we're going to move on to the next point, and that's it.
