ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u1	15. Mr Dolínek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Sb., on road traffic and on the amendment of certain laws (the Road Traffic Act), as amended /German press 374/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I would rather repeat this: this proposal was submitted under the scheme § 90 para. 2 to agree with him at first reading. The Government's position has been delivered as the House's press 374/1. I will ask Mr Petr Dolínek to present the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to present this bill or amendments to the law as a response to the real situation, which unfortunately happens in the field of road transport not only in Prague, but in all places of the Czech Republic where there are priority lanes. Priority lanes, as you know, are specially handled by law, so these stripes have their special brands on which they are marked, and they serve primarily for public public public transport and subsequently also for an integrated rescue system, for example in Prague also for taxi service, more precisely for a fully booked taxi. This means an instrument that is on the border between public transport and individual transport, because it is used one time by someone who needs to get somewhere, but then no longer needs to park etc. These lanes in Prague over the past seven years have started to form a backbone network of fast transport outside rail transport. I also think that it is the future of other larger cities, that even if it is not popular with drivers, so because, of course, from the point of view of us wanting to comply with all international agreements, but also with regulations or agreements of the government and the Ministry of the Environment, we must try to withdraw the individual transport for the public. We also want to prioritize the integrated rescue system. So this path is so that we can use the stripes just for whoever needs it. However, as measured in Prague, for example, by the Technical Communications Administration, almost 70 percent of drivers using this lane used it in violation of their right to use it. Of course, I will not dispute the need to look at its effectiveness for any such reserved lane. It is necessary to check regularly whether this strip is meaningful and, of course, it is also necessary to look at whether the strip has meaning all day, virtually. over that period from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., or whether it is not more convenient to use it only in the morning and afternoon peak, so that the road really serves the maximum of people. However, when there is an agreement within the framework of ammunition and a lane is marked, the controllability of the decision that the lane is legally marked should also be made. Unfortunately, at this point, the municipal police can't impose a fine on the spot, and thus solve the case with the person who is illegally using this lane. The proposal is therefore very simple and consists in the fact that the municipal police, in turn the city police, where it is in the cities, could solve this offence on the spot, did not have to go into criminal proceedings and thus - in fact, the city police put it in general among their priorities and could, in those hours when the lane is functional, ensure that it is not blocked by irresponsible drivers and that public transport drivers and, above all, the integrated rescue system can make full use of the lanes. I am aware of some reservations and I assume that it will also be heard today in the discussion that the House has agreed in the past that the municipal police should not serve as an alternative to the state police, especially the transport police, and that, of course, it should not be exaggeratedly strengthened in some way by responsibility, virtually. the responsibility and authority of the municipal police. However, I must say that, for example, there are clearly traffic police in Prague, there are generally not enough police officers, and despite the steps that the Ministry of the Interior is trying to do and fill police states, this is not working. Of course, there is no solution to translating police officers from other regions to Prague, because you all know, in your regions it would also happen suddenly that there would be a decline in state police states. [[17.20 hours]] That is why I come up with the proposal that I do not want to globally strengthen the municipal police with new powers, but I want to allow them to deal with this irresponsible activity of drivers on the ground, that is, by a block penalty to resolve everything immediately and at the same time to lighten the infringement proceedings, because of course anyone who recognizes his misconduct on the spot will pay a block penalty, so it subsequently does not get any further to the authorities. Because I think it's very simple and there's nothing complicated about it, so I took the liberty - even if we're already experiencing the relativisation of paragraph 90 here - to propose this procedure so that this amendment is approved by the law in the shortened process, that is, according to paragraph 90. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u3	Thank you. And now I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Jan Bauer to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only briefly to draw you closer to the substance of this bill amendment, which, paradoxically, has only one Member of the Chamber of Deputies, but also has the right to do so. Of course, I will present my brief political opinion, including that announced veto, within the framework of a general debate that I have honestly signed up for. Since the existing legislation does not allow the municipal police to discuss by order at the place of the offence pursuant to the Road Traffic Act committed by the use of a reserved lane in violation of the provisions of the Road Traffic Act and these offences must be brought into administrative proceedings, it is therefore proposed, as suggested by the petitioner, by this amendment, to extend the powers of the municipal police on the road traffic section and to include in the definition of the circle of offences which the municipal police may discuss by order on the spot according to the provisions of the relevant provisions of the Road Traffic Act, also offences committed by the use of the reserved lane in violation of the aforementioned provisions of the Road Traffic Act. So much for a reason. If I were to translate it into understandable Czech, it is true that if this law became effective, the municipal police would be given the power to fine the illegal ride in reserved lanes on the spot, which was not possible until now, because it was all under administrative procedure. I would also like to conclude by saying that efficiency is proposed in this amendment from 5. 6. 2019, which means this year, and it is also appropriate to add that the Government has given its consent to this bill, or amendment of the law, even though the Czech Government's report has also appeared - I do not want to say whether serious but minor shortcomings. So much for the explanatory statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Mr Bauer is also the first to sign up for this at the moment. He can continue fluently. Mr Adamec will then appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u6	Thanks again for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is really very short. He also spoke about this Mr. Petr Dolínek. However, let me mention that there are two things that bother me about this proposal. Firstly, this proposal is to be discussed and subsequently approved under paragraph 90, although the amendment is very short, it is basically a few words. If you read it, and given the experience of how poor law is being prepared even if it comes from the relevant ministries, I have all the more doubts if this law has been proposed through only one Member, whether it is actually prepared factually and formally correctly. So not only for this reason, but also because I have information that there are likely to be additions to some other essential things in the context of the discussions on the relevant committees, for this reason I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am giving a veto or an objection to the discussions under paragraph 90 (2). That's one. Second, the thing that really bothers me very much. It is not the first time we have opened Pandořin's box on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. This is not the first time, and I think that it has not been said for the last time, and it has also been said here - strengthening or weakening the powers of the city police, whether it is done in a hidden or open form, whether it is done in an ingenious or thoughtful way, but, in any case, here at the Chamber of Deputies, the powers of the city police are gradually being strengthened and, for this reason, the positions of the Police of the Czech Republic from the Czech cities and municipalities are being cleared out. For this reason, I am very concerned if the petitioner has everything properly thought out. I would very much like it if there is a major debate now that doesn't go the way that we're going to question whether or not there is a problem, that is, an unauthorized ride in a reserved lane. That's a thing that's indisputable. If you go through Prague or any other major cities within the Czech Republic, you will undoubtedly encounter this phenomenon. This means that there is - and this is a serious problem - the illicit use of reserved lanes. On the other hand, I would like to say that the police of the Czech Republic are responsible for the safety of Czech municipalities and cities by law. It also applies all the time that Czech municipalities can, but do not have to, establish their municipal police, and if they already decide to set up the municipal police, this applies mainly from their own resources. It is also true that if someone strengthens the powers of the municipal police, of course, someone is cleaning positions directly in proportion, and in this case I am concerned that not only in Prague, but also in some cities it will be quite strong in the way of the Police of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u7	Thank you for your attention. I'm registering your objection to the hearing - I presume it's the ODS club. The Rules of Procedure do not determine who is to object, usually it is the chairman of the club, I accept it, I have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u8	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I object to the proceedings under paragraph 90 (2) for the Civic Democratic Party, Pirates and TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u9	Three vetoes. I acknowledge that we will continue to proceed in the standard manner. In any case, I am opening a general debate - it is already open - Mr Adamec is next. Mr. Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to go a little further, because I would also consider this from another point of view. It is, on the one hand, a strengthening of the authority of the municipal or municipal police, but it is also, in fact, the duty of the municipal and municipal police, which until now someone else has. The other is the Police of the Czech Republic. And I must say that the Police of the Czech Republic got used very quickly to the fact that in those cities there are a number of activities that are subservient or, respectively, it is due to the law that this can be done, but it is done exclusively today by municipal or municipal police. I understand they're making excuses for not having people, but people don't even have city police these days. That's what you have to call yourself. In addition, the Police of the Czech Republic offers significantly better conditions for members of their congregations, whether they are retired, in the service, or in the amount of the salary. And I don't think that's how it works. In some cases I was also for some authority of the city police, because as mayor of the district city I am advantages, disadvantages and possibilities given the situation that was in our city. Maybe I wouldn't even take the criticism that the city police are being paid out of municipal money or the city budget. You know, she police in general, whether it's urban, municipal, or the Police of the Czech Republic, is paid out of public money anyway. It just doesn't matter which one we take it from. And if the municipality considers wanting to have municipal or municipal police, it is up to the decision of their representatives and de facto directs the flow of the public money in this way. [[17.30 hours]] But I have one thing to say. We were talking here yesterday about the trucks that the police, the traffic police - and now I mean especially the transport police of the Czech Republic - are affecting very few of the offences that are happening on our roads. Very little. And he does it very simply. It affects those who can simply measure, secure and enforce through the authorities. And I'll tell you what they're doing majority today, and now I'm not taking an accident, there's another situation. They're sitting in those camouflaged cars, waiting to find out who's going faster, where they have a clear record of the offense, a photo from the radar that they're sending right away to the central database, and then they're just gonna pick you up, they're gonna notify you of the offence, and either you're paying in place or in administrative proceedings, then you have to deal with all the consequences. Elsewhere I haven't seen the Czech transport police in a few years since I've been on Czech roads. And it's no different in Prague. I'll be very clear about that. It's no different. It also measures here in Prague because it is advantageous and because it is simple, and they document their own activities with it. I mind the philosophy of designing this simple law. I don't think we should do this at all. Let the Police of the Czech Republic do it with everything, because what will be left of it. Really little, and it wasn't set up for that. So I propose another step that has not yet been taken here to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u11	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm registering a motion to dismiss this law. The next in line for the general debate is Mr Svoboda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will address the plaintiffs through you. I'm very surprised you're suggesting such a thing. You know the capital of Prague - perhaps as well or better than I do. You know very well the issues of municipal police and state police. And you know that all these years, since 2010, when I've been aware of this, we've been trying to get the city police to do the city police's duty. We just need the police here to take care of the things that the city needs to do. We repeatedly say that we need city officers, just like those first-class officers who have their precinct, walk the streets, and take care of what's going on in their city district. I don't give a damn about a city cop dealing with speeding or driving in a reserved lane. I need him to take care of his precinct so that everyone knows him there, so that he can be there on a regular basis, to deal with a whole series of conflicts that arise at that city level, to be able to be such a warning against committing urban crime. It's just that when the police officer is present at his precinct, in any case, it's a major problem for thieves, it's a fundamental problem of disturbing public order. You solve all the problems, for example, that we created by smoking law, that is, the group smoking in front of the pub and throwing butts everywhere. Only city cops can deal with all this. And if we give them this task, I can almost guarantee you that half of them will measure the speed and the other half will guard the reserved lanes. That's a very easy thing to do. It's very easy to achieve success there for that officer. And it will also need to be evaluated as a good officer because he found 25 riders in a reserved lane. But it won't be an officer who, if there's a mess, if there's domestic violence somewhere, he'll be able to intervene, he'll be able to deal with it, and he'll be the memento in place for all those who want to break the city code who want to break our laws, that there's someone who has the uniform and who has the authority to do it. I would very, very much warn that city officers should be burdened by any activity other than that imposed on them by the principle of the city.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u13	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Milan Brázdil and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd respond to all my previous speakers in that sense, I feel like, in fact, why divide the police into city and state. We're still dealing, they've got to do it, they've got to do it, the money's coming from the state itself. [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] At least now you're saying it's public money... All right, I don't fully understand the details. On the other hand, I feel the need to unite the police. It's reserved for her. It's just discrepancence. I'd see it as a simple solution to the whole problem. It started here after the revolution. Maybe it was before. But I would suggest, or I can't suggest it right now, just wondering if it wouldn't be convenient to merge these two police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u15	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Leo Luzar, I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep our voices down... We're still not quiet... Let's try it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the whole debate that is here about the powers of the city police versus the state police, we are forgetting one little thing here, a detail like that. Who's the head of the city police? Let's talk about it. Who sends the city police to carry out priority activities that the city police should take care of in that particular city? Where do the city police go for orders and orders to do what is important for the city, the city, the community, and where should they turn their attention? And with this proposal, we give the city police the opportunity to deal with something on the spot and not in administrative proceedings. Because, of course, these violations should be documented and reported by the city police on administrative proceedings, and that should then impose sanctions for violations of the law, because that is a violation of the law. And administrative management is more complex and bureaucratic than the solution on the ground. Let's just say that this difference also exists here. But it bothers me if those mayors who should decide whether the city police are going to hit traffic offences first, or if they are going to primarily serve to take care of the problems that the community has in areas other than traffic, suddenly we say nothing, we don't decide, we don't run the city police, they choose to deal with 90 percent of their activities in transport rather than those we want. It's just about the cooperation that's in that village. And it bothers me when all of a sudden it's forgotten that it's also the role of the mayors and the mayors who set up the city police to direct the city police in what's important to the city and the community and to make it work the way it should. [[Noise in the hall. Members swing in different groups.]] I can give you a historical example of Ostrava, where, in relation to other city police, the city police focused rather heavily on non-transport activities. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u17	I would really like to ask all Members if they are dealing with something that is not related to this point and it is so important for you to deal with it in the foyer. We have three factual points and one application for a general debate. The first factual point is Mrs Černochová. Mr Svoboda and Mr Adamec will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I hate to lecture anyone here, but given what has been said here from the mouth of a longtime member of the Security Commission of Mr Milan Brázdil, I must. The municipal police were formed on the basis of the municipal police law. The financing of the city police works by paying the county, the municipalities, where they decide to set up the city police. The city police are not a standard law enforcement authority. I mean standard, like the Police of the Czech Republic. It operates mainly on the public order section, i.e. transport, on the environment. And, of course, on the basis of coordination agreements, Mr Brázdil, through the Vice-President, he can cooperate with the Police of the Czech Republic. But connecting the city police and the Police of the Czech Republic is pure nonsense, because these two organs are completely different. [[17.40 hours]] If the municipality works well in that village, he has the coordination agreement. We have a coordination agreement in Prague. She was still being negotiated for us by the mayor of Svoboda, so even though he was performing here, he really knew what he was talking about. And if there's anything we can complain about, it's more like a lack of city police officers. As mayor of Prague 2, I have twenty, thirty people in my condition all the time. So that would certainly not help if the city police merged with the Police of the Czech Republic. And it would not do any good and would have to change simply all the standards that are established upon these congregations. And the philosophy of creating a city police force is completely different from being a criminal authority. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u19	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u20	Thank you. I'm very happy to answer my previous speakers. The Mayor is the head of the Municipal Police in Prague. He can give up this function, he can assign it to some councilman. I think it's a mistake if he did, but it's just that. I'll only talk about what I really know. Don't worry about the city not caring about what officers are supposed to do. We discuss this every day. Every day we look for what's optimal. And precisely because we know what those officers are supposed to do, because the mayor as their supreme commander can order them to do it, in quotation marks, because the board can decide that, which is why I am opposed to giving them some legal task, not concerning what the council and the city's bosses have agreed. They know what the city needs best, but it's definitely not a lane check. What we need is a safe city. A safe city for its inhabitants, a safe city for its visitors, a safe city for all who live there. Not only for safe transport on lanes. But I say again, the city is dealing with it. He's very intensely looking for a variant of what officers are supposed to do. We've done a whole series of meetings and seminars with the city police, with the state police. We have reached a certain balance of the matter, and I would very much hate for this weight to go down again in order for everyone to do what is prescribed by some law, regardless of what the city needs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Vít Rakušan will be prepared. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make this very simple. On the one hand, I understand the opinion of a fellow Member who wants order in the city of Prague. On the other hand, I say that it is enough to transfer those other powers by law to the municipal or municipal police. That's the whole problem. As far as symbiosis is concerned Police of the Czech Republic and municipal or municipal police, as well as thirty years of practice has shown that it works. Even today, in some cities, there is a tendency for representatives to establish their own municipal police. It's because the state police have suppressed a significant amount of activity involving, for example, patrolmen and common policemen who walk in uniform on the streets watching what's going on there. It's just reality. With that we have to assume that the obligation of the state to the obligation of the community prevails a little bit here. But on the other hand, it works. Let's not change that. Yes, the mayor is the chief of the city police, but it could be any authorized representative of the city or municipal council to tell us the truth. Where it works, coordination meetings between the Police of the Czech Republic and the police of the city and the city leadership are provided. It's quite common. But the law doesn't solve what city police are supposed to look like, what the Police of the Czech Republic should look like, what to do. This law only deals with adding another duty to the city police. And I'm saying that we should say no here, because it's really not such a big deal to free up the hands of the Police of the Czech Republic. 'Cause if it's a serious problem, let's get this town back to the head of police here. Let the traffic police do this, it's their own, it's equipped for it. They can do it, they don't just have to measure. They can do other activities on the communications, on the roads. So I say again, let's reject it at first reading, because I don't think this will solve the situation significantly. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u23	Thank you. There. If we had such an atmosphere in the Chamber when discussing these points that we have, I would consider it a dignified atmosphere. Thank you so much for keeping your voice down and giving the other speakers room to express themselves in a calm atmosphere. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also mention here the practically nine years of community experience, when I am the law commander of the city police, and by your means please allow me to respond to the words of the previous speaker, Mr Luzar. We, of course, as mayors, as those in charge of the city police, have the opportunity to determine the tasks of the city police. Of course, we have the opportunity to select the portfolio of activities that the city police will pursue. And if it were up to us, of course, we'd be happy if the city police were really just doing precinct work, they were really doing a public order in that urban area. And if that were an option, we'd be very happy to have it significantly smaller than it is in reality. But we don't come out of how ideal the situation should be, but if we already have city police established, we are based on the reality of our cities and communities. And I can clearly tell you that the state transport police within the territory of Kolína are unable to pursue the transport activity. He can't deal with the banalities. It cannot handle bad parking in the housing estates and in the city centre, and it is often unable to even solve speed crossings in the territory of Kolína. In that case, of course, as a responsible commander in order to maintain order in the city, I'm sending those officers there, but not with any pleasure. We're just based on the reality, as it is, capacitively state police, traffic police are very undersized, and somehow we have to deal with it in those cities and municipalities. But with no joy. We would really rather the city police serve what was originally established, that is, maintaining public order in cities. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u25	Mr Leo Luzar, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would ask him, therefore, through your assistance to a fellow Mayor of Rakušan, because the annual report on the activities of the city police and the state police in Cologne will certainly be available, but I would be very happy to be introduced to her, because this will clearly result in the ratio of the activities of the police. And once again, in the affair, it's about the arrangement. This has been said many times that the coordination of activities exists. And if we accept that the state police are simply troubled undersized in certain areas, but they have a problem improving it because there is no money, there are no people, etc., the city police are simply coming forward. But the question is, how do we agree and where is the affair? And once again, I point out that this proposal is not about the activities between the city and the state police, but it is about allowing city officers to deal with a certain matter on the ground. But there's no saying he has to deal with it. They are still dealing with this in administrative proceedings, so they will be able to deal with it on the spot in terms of dealing with activities. If it turns out in a certain town that has these reserved lanes, that there's a problem and that drivers start taking advantage of it because of a deadline or something, yes, it may be an ideal way to invite the chief of police and say: send people there, solve it. He says, but I've got a security situation somewhere else, I can't deal with it, put in officers, we're sorry, but I can't. Officers will go in, but they'll deal with this in the course of criminal proceedings, administrative proceedings. They won't be able to deal with it on the spot, as the situation would require. Maybe it's just a problem, but we're here to allow the city police to solve a problem in the future when it happens. It has already arrived in Prague. In some cities it also happens that drivers ruthlessly use these reserved belts and overtake those standing in the column, as the state should when the intersection is fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u27	Thank you. I don't know if I'm having a hard time expressing myself when I say I'd like us to have peace in this room and create an acceptable atmosphere for the performers. Or am I not saying this forcefully? Thank you. Mr Rakušan and his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I, for the last time, have been through you to my colleague Luzar. I really don't want to run this shooting here, because I understand his arguments. These are simply arguments from that point of view, as the situation should ideally be. But we're talking about this mayor's, mayor's practice where the situation is completely different. The city of Kolín has a long-term coordination agreement with the state police and the state police behind us in the vacant 15-20 tables in our city still has a request that it is unable to live up to the coordination agreement in the current personnel situation. Of course, we want to update the coordination agreement, which is always very difficult, but the officers are already doing more than enough transport activity. And I just don't like giving them new responsibilities by law in any way. It shouldn't be like that. And it is the kind of view that we have here in the House at times, the academic and parliamentary view of the local reality, which, honourable Member through the President, is indeed completely but completely different. I will be happy to present you with an annual report from both the state and the city police, and I will convince you that at least 60-65 percent of the city police activity on the territory of the city is already devoted to transport. And this is a situation which, on the contrary, should be motivated to change downwards, and I think this proposal is simply going in the opposite direction. But that's my last point in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u29	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes for today's meeting from 6:30 p.m. to the end of the meeting day, Dr David Kasal today apologizes from 18:00 for medical reasons until the end of the meeting day. With a factual remark, Mr Svoboda and Mr Onderka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u30	Thank you. I too, for the last time, to my colleague Luzar and his views, which he said here. This thing is very simple. The moment my lane situation starts to get complicated at 3:30, when it's reserved for the bus to get through, I'm gonna send that city officer over there as mayor. He gets up there, and by standing there, no one gets in that lane. It works just like that paper officer standing at the beginning of town, and everyone thinks there's a police officer out there measuring speed. It's about how this town's gonna do it. It's not about being ordered. If I feel there's been some misdemeanor, I'll send that officer there, like I'm sending him to the city area where the drug is running, like I'm sending him to the city area where they live inadaptable. It's just that when he's there, the situation is completely different, and the offence is not committed, or is committed very, very rarely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u31	Thank you. Mr. Roman Onderka and his two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u32	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, we are talking about increasing responsibility, but most importantly, that officers can do some extra work. How many cities are we talking about in the Czech Republic? Ten? Thirteen? It doesn't matter, of course. We're talking about the fact that in the accompanying lanes, where they can drive cabs today, where they can drive, I don't know, urban public transport, vehicles of an integrated rescue system, just has nothing to do with any other car. And if officers carry out traffic activities in the territory of these cities, which are mostly except hl. m. Prague statutory city in the Czech Republic, so I do not see why they should do it everywhere, only on this communication. And that's wrong. And it's not the opening of any pandořina's locker that we're giving officers further authority to further activities. And that they represent or replace in several dozens to hundreds of examples of the Police of the Czech Republic, I will be very happy to give my colleague Rakušan for the truth through the President, because we know how it went ten years ago, when the situation was even worse, and how it is going today. So I think that emotions like that we're strengthening city police officers today, and that's opening up more room to replace state police activity, isn't exactly the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u33	Thank you. And we are going back to the general debate where we have Mr Válek's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u34	Who's gonna wait... Thank you, Mr President. Prague was already, Cologne was, so Brno. I must lift up, and I hope, somehow, through the President, to please all Members of Brno, to lift up that we are also dealing with this problem in Brno. I am from the town section of Líšeň, where we are even two Members here, through Mr President colleague Sklenák, my friend from Líšeň is also an MP, and he has long been in Líšeň concerned - the health of the mayor - Mr Mayor Břetislav Štefan for social democracy. And the situation with the police in Líšně is so desperate that we finally made, virtually. I was in opposition, so was the militia coalition. We've got militia, and she's doing it for the police that she goes there, babysits, watches, and oversees the order. I really think that what has been said here in a number of communications is that there is insatiability of both the city and the state police or the officers, so it is reality and for me, if there are no officers in the streets and there is no prevention, it is wrong, because prevention is always the best in all activities. And now what I originally signed up for was specific - and now I'm taking advantage of it probably, this place - sigh. I drive from Brno to the Institute for Further Education of Physicians, where also the Agency for Health, is located on the Russian street Moskevská. And that street in Moscow has the three lanes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u35	Sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador. Indeed, the level of noise is unbearable, and I strongly urge Members both on the left and on the right side of the Chamber to keep their voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u36	Thank you very much, but the idea isn't that deep. My thought, then. So there are three lanes along that Moscow street. The fly is that the right lane ends practically at the intersection. So if I want to turn right, I have two options: don't turn or drive into the right lane. So I would take advantage of this because I have already written to our Members in Prague at the Prague City Council about this, even my colleagues here from Prague, if they could not look at Moscow because if the police had boarded and checked the lane, they would catch a lot, not only me, but I think that even through Mr Vyzula, the President, and others who are driving this way to the ILF and the Agency for Medical Research, and if they want to turn right, they still have no choice but to enter the lane. I think that the idea that Mr Dolínek, through the President, has said here is very important. If we want regulations to be followed and to enforce compliance, those regulations must be meaningful and reasonable. Speed-limiting marks must be where they are needed, and stripes must be marked where it makes sense, and at a time when they are needed. And if that's not the case, it's very difficult to ask citizens to follow the rules and not laugh at us for what the regulations are. I think that's the thing that's been said here. It is very important to me and I thank the honourable Member for it through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u37	Thank you. I do not see anyone enrolled in the debate, so I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not deliberately enter this debate because - I do not want to ironize it now - to a large extent the local politicians active in national politics have succeeded on their own, so I would probably not bring them much new in this, except that I also came from urban practice, and that is why I come up with the law at all. With the proposal. I would like to say that, first of all, I want to refute the myth of adding something completely innovative right now. The city police, the municipal police, had this authority, but at one point here in the House, the opinion prevailed to detract the authority of the municipal police in favour of the state police, and there were several things crossed out, among others, these, and in my opinion unfortunately. I am glad that one important thing has also been said here by the critics of this proposal. The mayor really sets priorities in the case of, of course, staffing enough, lack of need, and really can happen in the territory of the city to check these lanes. [[Nesroz.]] You can imagine that at the moment when the check-up takes place in Prague and the lanes where it will take place are randomly determined and the fines are handed out in an absolutely direct address, that it is far more successful among drivers than it is said that someone can stand there and maybe put it in the administrative proceedings. You know that in your communities. When speed starts to be measured somewhere, the drivers behave differently. When they're using radar tickets, they go slower. If there's fictitious radars that don't evaluate anything, they go there all they want. That's just how the drivers behave, and at that moment the city policeman can be sent by his commander and can fine the place, right on the spot, that the driver has to reach into his wallet and pay. That's a longer range for drivers than when that cop suddenly stops someone. Moreover, I would like to emphasise one thing. A general policeman, when he sees this offence is committed, he should deal with it anyway. That means when he's on duty around that lane and he sees someone else out there, he should shut down the wagon. But there's one problem. A general policeman can only do that if he doesn't restrict traffic in a given lane, so he has to step up to some place where the car can be shut down, and then he should do his act, which means writing down the offence. One comment. In the past, there has been a great discussion on the subject of the Metropolitan Police. It was precisely because, above all, Prague is showing up, and maybe it would also be Brno, or Ostrava, whether this distribution is ideal or not. But this bill did not and did not want to provoke this discussion. She belongs somewhere else. And I think that both Mrs Černochová and other Members will certainly be able to have the debate again during this parliamentary term on the territory of those committees where it belongs. I think not yet in plenary, because the subject is certainly not as up-to-date as other topics, such as the crust and others that we have been discussing today. I would like to ask, if not in the so-called '90s, so at least give this proposal a chance to go through the second reading. I think the intention is correct. The intention does not force the municipal policeman to stand immediately after his approval to the priority lane, but gives the opportunity to intervene more easily. And only such good news for those mayors or former mayors who have some concerns about this matter is that the same offense can be evaluated electronically according to legal analysis. This means that it is only for the development of the camera system on those priority lanes, where it will be assessed as important, that cars that do offenses can be picked up there, and it is the same as in the streets in Prague now parking offences are being done, so it can also be done in priority lanes and it can also be accessed in the area of excessive cargo where the zones are 7 tons and so on, which is definitely a big challenge for big cities to connect camera systems when they have cameras to this agenda. But it's bad news for urban areas and their officials in the subsequent solution, but I think it's important for justice to be done in such a way that people are really on the streets and that cameras work where they can. It's always cheaper than the person standing there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-014-015.u39	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? No. I have a motion to dismiss. I will engage and we will vote on a motion to reject this law. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 109, registered 169 Members and Members, for 46. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 110, 169 Members and Members of Parliament, for 135, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I don't see anyone. I'm saying we've dealt with this point. We will proceed to discuss the next item. I'll read the apology. Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes until the end of today's day for work reasons. The next item is
