ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u1	37. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended, and other related laws /house print 431/ - first reading Under the authority of the government, he will state, yes, I have it here, for Minister Dan Ťok the floor, Minister Klára Dostálová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport is submitting a draft law amending Act No. 111/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended. The main objective of the proposal is, above all, the revision of the legislation on taxi services and the implementation of certain partial changes in other areas covered by the Road Transport Act. In the area of taxi services, the rules for the operation of taxi services are clearly regulated in connection with its liberalisation by using popular mobile applications and other electronic means of communication consisting in the waiver of the requirement to fulfil certain obligations, namely the mandatory use of a taxi meter and the marking of vehicles by a roof lamp. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce the obligations of taxi carriers and drivers in such a way as to avoid an unjustified advantage for the provision of taxi services. In alternative ways. At the same time, however, the taxi-service regulation is complemented by certain institutes that will lead to better protection and enforcement of customers' rights. One of them is a new institute of taxi service intermediary, which sets out certain obligations for the performance of its activities, which aim, in particular, only to provide legal services, that is to say, services provided by authorised entities, carriers and drivers who hold the necessary authorisation of the carrier's concession and the driver's authorisation of taxi service. Furthermore, a new way of marking taxi services vehicles is introduced so that vehicles which are not equipped with a roof lamp are clearly identifiable for both customers and control authorities. This new identifier will be the registration sticker of the taxi service vehicle, which will be issued by the transport authorities and which will have to be marked by each vehicle operated by the taxi service. The proposal also limits the scope of the municipality's authorisation to regulate taxi services in its territory. The possibility for municipalities to provide taxi drivers with the obligation to demonstrate the test knowledge of the place of registration, the operator of the taxi meter and the relevant legislation is completely deleted, and the possibility for municipalities to determine the requirement for the color of the bodywork and the minimum dimensions of the taxi service vehicle is deleted. Outside the area of taxi services, in favour of the addressees of legal regulation, the compulsory labelling of large vehicles on behalf of the road transport operator is waived and there are partial changes in the regulation of obligations in the transport of dangerous goods. Furthermore, the Road Transport Act includes a special regulation against the Employment Act following the Union rules on posting workers in the framework of the provision of services and it is proposed that copies of documents proving employment relationship with the driver will have to be available in the vehicle in the case of foreign carriers. The incorporation of the obligation in question into the Road Transport Act will enable the relevant offence to be dealt with by the transport authorities, which will make the administrative penalty more effective, which is currently not implemented on the part of the labour inspectorate to an adequate extent. [[13.40 hours]] The changes contained in the proposal also affect the licensing procedure in which the procedure for issuing binding opinions by the authorities concerned is partially clarified so as to avoid excessive extension of the licensing procedure as a result of the inactivity of these authorities. Further partial adjustments to the Road Transport Act are also carried out following knowledge from the application practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u3	I also thank you, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I have to say, before I say a brief report, so with all due respect to the Minister for Regional Development - and I know you for a very long time as former mayor - I have to say that I would never have imagined that in such a large amendment to the Taxi Service Act, your person would eventually appear and that there is simply no minister who is either leaving or not leaving, but I hope - it is 13.41 - no one will ask more, because I wouldn't even envy you, because you simply cannot have such an extensive amendment physically studied. It's evidence of something, but there's nothing we can do about it. Otherwise, as part of the news report, I will certainly not be putting the situation at the end of this week, but this is House Press 431, it has been said that this is a government proposal. In the area of taxi service and in connection with its partial liberalisation, the rules governing the operation of taxi service are adapted using many popular mobile applications. I would like to say that this is a matter that many parties have been calling for for, for many years or many months, and what the Ministry of Transport specifically comes up with is a compromise. I myself am very curious as to how in the second reading, in the framework of possible amendments, this compromise will eventually take into account the ideas that we have put into running our taxi service, but we will see this in the future. It was also said that this legislation proposes a reduction in the obligations of taxi carriers and drivers in order to avoid an unjustified advantage for the provision of taxi services. In alternative ways. Taxi service regulations are supplemented by certain institutes that will lead to better protection and enforcement of customers' rights. It was also said that the change was also proposed for the marking of vehicles by a roof lamp with the sign "taxi' or otherwise interchangeable with that marking. The obligation to label vehicles with the registration sticker of a taxi service vehicle is introduced. Furthermore, the proposal envisages the abolition of certain obligations. This is a waiver from the obligation to record the operation of a taxi service vehicle, as its use is limited nowadays. It is also deleted from the mandatory equipment of the taxi service by the current extract from the registration of the taxi service vehicle. Another thing, which may concern the mayors or representatives of self-government present, in the proposal there is a limitation of the scope of the authorisation of municipalities to regulate taxi services in their territory. Among other things, the possibility for municipalities to lay down taxi drivers as a condition for starting or offering transport in the territory of the municipality is completely waived by the obligation to demonstrate by testing the knowledge of the site, the operation of the taxi meter and the legislation governing the operation of the taxi service and consumer protection. The Road Transport Act - perhaps the last thing I mention from the many dozens of adjustments - includes a special adjustment to the regulation contained in the Employment Act, taking into account EU legislation on posting workers. There's a lot of changes there. Perhaps I, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, would have ended with this in the context of my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u5	Thank you for the news report. I am opening a general debate to which President Michálek is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u6	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like 100% to support this bill and to appreciate the fact that he and his team have done a very good job of processing this bill, and in particular I think that this is an exemplary way in which from the outset the Minister has dealt with representatives of both interest groups, we have received quite extensive material, where the individual opinions of each interest group have been received, and at the same time several meetings have been held with representatives of the Members' clubs. So, thanks to this negotiation, it has succeeded in reaching a rather consensual proposal which, in my view, responds well to current trends in digital platforms. So I'm sure our MP club will support the proposal. As part of the second reading, we would like to address some more detailed questions where we are, for example. they received suggestions from the City Council of Prague that it would be necessary to strengthen certain control powers of the City Council so that they could effectively control the fraud committed by dishonest taxi drivers and where some of the digital platforms proceed by erasing Magistrate's controllers from those systems. So that would be the thing we'd like to do in the second reading, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u7	Thank you. That was an application for a debate. At this point, I have no applications for debate. Mr. Mr. kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u8	I'm so sorry, and thank you for letting me in quickly. I also want us to make it to the first reading, but we still have a few more minutes. I would like to thank Mr Michálek for his words, because there has really been a political agreement here and by the Ministry of Transport - now I speak for the subcommittee on transport - the proposal was presented last autumn, before Christmas, to representatives of all political clubs, his ideal intention. We also discussed this on the Transport Sub-Committee. All I want to say at this point is that many of us have received letters from those, I will say, traditional taxi services that object or feel a big problem in the so-called liability of the intermediary, that it will not be enforceable, how those taxi drivers who work under them or are registered, how it will be checked, whether they really have all the essentials. And here I also want to answer for the screen record and for the public that the amendment thinks about it, remembers, it is described in § 34c para. 3 where the so-called "surveillance" will be ensured. remote online access. So that's the answer to the written communication we received from the cab drivers, I'll say, with all those threats to strike and all that. Otherwise, the whole novel really gives taxi services a choice whether they're traditional or new digital. Each of these decisions will have its pluses and minuses. And for myself, even from the Sub-Committee on Transport, I feel that there is a majority political consensus behind this, so I believe that after relatively small adjustments to the second reading, the law will be successful and approved in the House. I also want to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Transport with these words, because the working group worked very carefully on the law for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-012-037.u9	I, too, thank you, and at this point I do not have any more applications for the debate, so I am ending the debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words of the appellant and the rapporteur. [[No.]] In that case, we will not vote on the proposals for repayment or rejection because they have not fallen, so we will now deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, I shall call the Members to the ballroom. [[Gong.]] And when a few do, I will repeat that we will vote on the commandment of the motion to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 137, 126 Members and Members are registered, for 103, against no one. The motion is accepted. I note that, therefore, we have ordered the proposal to be dealt with by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. [[13.50 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? It's not like that. In that case, I shall conclude the discussion of this proposal at first reading. I'll see you at second reading. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. Now there's a point
