ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws (forest law), as amended /house print 408/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Yes, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u2	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present the Government's amendment to Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws, as amended. The Ministry of Agriculture has been asked to draw up and submit an amendment to the forest law in connection with the current calamity in the woods by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and the Ministry has also been asked to submit a proposal to the amendment to the forest law by a resolution of the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The need for accelerated partial amendment of forest law arises mainly in connection with the extensive calamity that hit forests in a large part of the territory of the Czech Republic. Experience from recent practice, knowledge of the authorities of state forest management at all levels, including the Czech Environmental Inspection and also interest associations of forest owners, shows clearly that it is in the interests of forests and forestry not to wait for a more comprehensive amendment to the forest law. In view of the urgency of the problem, forest law needs to be amended in a partial way, trying to eliminate the most pressing problems that we are currently facing in practice. [[12.40 hours]] The submitted amendment to the Forest Act is intended, in particular, to clearly lay down the obligations of professional forest farmers, to anchor the Institute of Recording of Professional Forest Economists, including the possibility to instruct the management of this register of the Forest Economic Treatment Institute as an organisational maid of the State, to allow an exemption from the rules for the use of reproductive material in the event of incidents of a natural disaster to the extent of large-scale calamity. The Government's bill was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 24th meeting and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted by the Agricultural Committee concern, in particular, the extension of aid to forest owners, the refinement of certain other provisions of the law as an impossibility of the disposal of state forests or only under the conditions laid down by law. It is also the entry into the forest, including the adjustment of liability for damage to property, health or life, the carrying out of tolls of deliberate logging in forests of high, under 80 years of age, or low, medium, under 20 years of age, the refinement of the obligation of professional forest economy, including penalties for failure to comply with these obligations, the authorisation of small water structures small. That means it's the remission of withdrawal fees. We agree with these proposals. The Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the draft law at its 19th meeting and adopted amendments concerning, in particular, the impossibility of the disposal of state forests or only under the conditions laid down by law and the clarification of the obligations of an expert forest manager, including the penalty for failure to fulfil these obligations. These amendments are in line with the concept of the petitioner and will contribute to the improvement of the proposal, and we therefore agree with them. With regard to other amendments, in particular to the Committee on the Environment, which relate in particular to priority implementation, or the obligation not to carry out random mining, the extension of the deadline for forestation of shavings, and the obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out inspections for the performance of its surveillance activities on the dates of the approved plans, we do not agree with these amendments because they do not comply with the concept of the government proposal and any amendment to the amended provisions of the forestry law should be subject to further, broader expert discussions in order to find a more comprehensive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u3	We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on the Environment. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 408/1 and 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and, at the same time, the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Karel Tureček, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the agricultural committee, as a guarantee committee, discussed this proposal for forest law on 12 June and adopted a resolution to it by the committee, which is available to you as House press number 408/3, when it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the draft law with the amendments adopted. The amendments have already been made in the opening words of the Minister, so I would just refer to this introductory word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have a number of Members of Parliament and Members. So the first to speak, Mrs Pekarová, will be prepared by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify here a series of amendments, which I will still sign up to in detail in the debate, which we, together with colleagues Válek, Holomčík and Balcarová, are presenting and which aim to address the current crisis situation of our forests. One of the main causes of the current forest crisis is an inappropriate species composition, i.e. planting especially spruce and pine trees, to an environment where they would not otherwise grow in nature, or inappropriate ways of growing them together with a holistic way of farming. As a result of the earlier planting of spruce to inappropriate locations of lower and medium positions and hills, only this year's random logging of sludge spruce wood will be estimated to be between 30 and 50 million cubic meters. This is the equivalent of one excavated area with a size of at least one football field every three minutes continuously throughout the year. In order to prevent a similar situation in the future, it is necessary to grow forests of both species and age varied. A wide range of trees is able to deal more effectively with the risk factors that the forest will face in the future. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The current text of the forest law requires the planting of so-called meliaration and strengthening trees, which are mainly leafy and fir trees. However, their share was laid down in Decree No. 83/1996 Coll. In 1996, at a very low level, mostly between five and thirty percent. This allowed most of our forests to continue to plant spruce, even at completely inappropriate locations. In view of the ongoing climate change, this problem needs to be addressed by a more fundamental change. This is what the amendment under House document 3111, which tightens -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u7	Let me ask you to calm down so that the lady can speak calmly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u8	Thank you. Which specifies the general obligation of the owner to restore the forest with ecologically and climatically suitable trees. This term releases and extends the possibilities of the owner to choose the corresponding trees. In doing so, it is more accurate and better expressed what is expected of forest cultivation, even with regard to ongoing climate change. Another cause of the current fading and destruction of forests is the disruption of forest soils, showing changes in the spiced forest soils, mycorrhiza and so on. As a result, difficult water intake is trees, nutrient deficiency, impaired anchoring of trees in soil, susceptibility to fungal and insect pathogens. Deteriorated physical properties of forest soils impair their infiltration and retention capacity. This condition significantly impairs the ability of forests to adapt to climate change. The major application of the holistic farming methods is contrary to the natural development of Central European forests, as the forest's area decays were only more or less frequent departures from the development cycle mainly under the motherland. The holistic ways of farming do not create the prerequisites for successful development of shaded trees, in particular fir and beech, which require growth in the soil in youth. The holistic ways reduce the age, spatial, species and genetic diversity of forest ecosystems and weaken their stability. In particular, when applying a high proportion of artificial renewal, they deform the forest population gene pool. The amendment under House document 3113 therefore determines the maximum permissible size and width of the bare shelves in the toll of deliberate mining. Another amendment, under House document 3115, extends the time limits for foresting and securing crops that will bring significant economic savings, because it will allow more crops to develop natural rejuvenation. The results of expensive artificial forestation of large-scale shavings from recent years in North Moravia are very poor, most seedlings dry. The current wording of the Forest Act forms an absolute obligation to intervene against pests. This causes problems not only in protected areas, but also in cases of regional and national disasters, as defined by the new § 8a of the last amendment to Decree 101/1996 Coll., when it is not in the ability of the owner to meet these obligations in an objective lack of mining and processing capacity. The recently approved amendment to the Forest Law tried to solve the problem, but the authorisation to issue measures of a general nature to the Ministry of Agriculture appears to be insufficient means because the responsibility of the Ministry is not sufficiently clarified. Together with the wording of the law, the owners continue to be placed in an unsolvable situation where they are threatened with sanctions by the state administration for violations that they cannot comply with, or the unintended consequence of forcing, for example, the application of toxic chemical spraying, the consequences of which may be worse than the effects of barking. This problem is intended to address the amendment under the House press number 3116. [[12.50 hours]] The aim of the amendment under House Document No 3117 is to bring the Forest Law into line with the Nature Conservation Act and the management of certain specially protected territories. The current wording of the Forest Act provides for an absolute obligation to intervene against pests. This is mostly appropriate in the economic forests, but in some specially protected areas where the aim is to protect the spontaneous development of the crops, such an obligation is directly contrary to the mission of those territories. For specially protected areas, such as national nature reserves, nature reserves, or parts of protected areas in which the care plan provides for the maintenance of spontaneous development, the solution to this collision is often administratively complicated. In practice, there are numerous controversys between the State Administration of Nature Protection, the State Administration of Forests, the errors of these administrative bodies and sometimes conflicting decisions of the Czech Environment Inspection. Other frequent misunderstandings are the result of the fact that leaving spontaneous development is not defined in the Nature Conservation Act. The proposal for this contradiction deals with the regulation of both legislation - the Forest Act and the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. This is particularly important now in the catastrophic decay of forests in order to avoid faulty practices by the nature protection authority and the forest administration authority, so as not to damage, on the one hand, the most valuable forests protected by mining reserves and, on the other, to reduce the risk of spreading pests from protected areas by properly defining the areas left for self-development. The penultimate amendment, which I will justify, is introduced in the system under House document 3118. Its intention is to leave a certain amount of dry and decaying trees in the woods, which is essential for biodiversity. A third of the forest species are bound to dead wood. They are particularly suitable for keeping economically unvalued trees - stumps, trees with rotting, unsuitable shape, unusable land and the like. At the same time, biodiversity is one of the key factors increasing the resistance of forests. Finally, the last amendment concerns the amendment to the Act on Hunting and the system is kept under House Document No 2120. The proposal transfers ultimate responsibility for determining, approving the hunting management plan to the body of the state hunting administration. The user is obliged to hand over to the body of the state hunting authority documentation on the plan, the elements of which - for example, the assessment of the overall status of the ecosystem, the comparison of control and comparative areas, the results of the game census, the level of damage to forest cultures, the minimum and standardised game states, the ratio of sex and the coefficients of the expected production, as well as the intentions set out in the proposal for recognition of the hunting of intended animals, the construction of hunting facilities, animal care measures and in the protection and improvement of game living conditions and others - shall be determined by the Ministry by decree. Restoring a varied species composition is not possible without establishing a balance between the states of game and the restoration of forests. Currently, oversized cloven-hoofed animals save or seriously damage all, somewhere most planted leafy and eat. According to the latest inventory of animal damage, on average 64 percent of young deciduouss and edibles are damaged; in the middle of the Czech Republic it is more than 75 percent and in the quarter of the Czech Republic it is 100 percent. In particular, given the catastrophic situation in which huge areas of damaged forests need to be restored, this amendment is an absolute priority for enabling the recovery of forests to be restored. Therefore, the related amendment of the law on hunting is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the briefest possible justification for the many amendments that I am going to make in a detailed debate and which we are presenting with colleagues Válek, Holomčík and Balcarová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u9	I'll read two apologies. Mrs Pěnčíková apologizes from 13 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologises from 13 o'clock to the end of the day for other working reasons. Now next in line for the general debate, Mrs Alena Gajdušková. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Josef Kott will be ready. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, gentlemen, gentlemen, ministers, we certainly agree that there is no more depressing view than the dying forest. As a social democrat, I consider forests to be national wealth and I believe that this is how we all must treat forests. Unfortunately, climate change has long been overlooked in society, even those who have talked about it and talked about the dangers and consequences that climate change will have, and the need to prepare themselves to address their effects have been ridiculed. So today, at 12 o'clock, we must address the consequences of this disregard. Dry-damaged forests are easily subject to insect pests. This situation really needs to be dealt with very quickly, which is why my thanks to the Minister of Agriculture belong to Miroslav Toman, that he does so quickly by submitting an amendment to the forest law, and thus by creating conditions for managing the bark calamity from the professional guarantee of good forest management, and by specifying the scope of the state forest administration, to ensuring conditions for forestation. At this point, however, dear colleagues, I must report something of a conflict of interest. It would have been said earlier that I'm the lady of the game. I also have to announce that mostly represented professions in my narrowest family are woodsmen and a piece of forest my husband owns also from my parents. [[Members are still very noisy!]] From the professional public, with whom I am of course in contact, the support of the proposed law of appreciation sounds both openly, funded by the Minister and by the Ministry of Agriculture -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u11	Calm down, please! Madam, I'm sorry. I beg you to be really calm, because I, too, have stopped hearing what the honourable Member is talking about. So one more time, I'm asking for peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u12	Thank you, Mr President. So I'm going to repeat what I said a moment ago and what I didn't hear. The professional public appreciates how well-founded and openly the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Toman prepared this bill. And the bill is considered really good. I also have three amendments from practice, which I will introduce at this point in time. The first amendment concerns what is called negative charges. In determining the charges for the removal of land fulfilling the functions of the forest according to the annex to Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests, and others, there is a situation where the authority of the state forest administration is forced to prescribe a fee for permanent or temporary withdrawal of land fulfilling the functions of the forest. These fees often reach only tens of crowns in compliance with the methodology. These are cases of small forest parcels to which the performance of the forest functions is withdrawn or where the period of withdrawal is short. The proposal says that these bogus charges for short-term withdrawal up to CZK 50, for long-term up to CZK 100, should not be prescribed. I certainly don't have to convince anyone that administration and the administrative act are more expensive in this case than the amounts that would of course come into the state budget. And it's really a nonsense measure. [[13.00 hours]] The second amendment relates to the destruction of pliers and residues from bark mining. This proposal deals with a conflict with the Air Protection Act, which speaks of the fact that only dry wood can be burned in an open fireplace. But in the case of the solution of the barking sludge to burn the dry pliers no longer makes sense, because the barking is no longer in it. This pliers burning measure in relation to the bark calamity makes sense only when it is pliers, the scraps of mining are burned immediately, i.e. when the bark is still present in the wood. The third proposal is a little more complicated. It deals with terminology and interpretation so as not to circumvent the law by reducing the stockpiling. Experts will certainly find written justification for the proposed amendment. Finally, I would like to emphasise - you know, earlier, children in schools learned that forests are the lungs of the Earth. For us in the Czech Republic, forests are not only the imaginary lungs, but are an important factor in maintaining water in the landscape, i.e. providing water as basic conditions of life. For all of us, forests are truly national wealth, and we as a society really have a duty to do everything we can to keep them for generations to come. That is why I believe that this amendment to the forest law, as presented to us, will be approved. I will just ask you to support the amendments that I will sign up for in detail in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, Mr Kott, I will introduce you to the note that lies here, and I do not know if it has already been loaded. So, Mrs Válková apologizes to us from 12.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Now, please, for Mr Kott's general debate, Mr Holomčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, good afternoon. I would briefly justify my amendments. It's basically about licensing. My amendment proposes an amendment to the text so that the condition for licensing of companies - a natural person holding the position of manager - is deleted. While this condition is relevant for state enterprises and organisations because they are larger entities, for commercial companies, especially for one-man companies in the countryside, it is a condition that is completely redundant. In the case of one-man s. r. o. forces an entrepreneur who has a company established often because of the possibility of deduction of VAT in the volume of annual trades above CZK 1 million - it is most undesirable for these small entrepreneurs to have a responsible representative employed who would unduly burden the budget of these small business companies. This burden is particularly undesirable in the countryside and in a situation where the sole owner of s. r. o. fulfils the conditions for granting a licence for the pursuit of the activities of a specialist forest manager in particular. It's an unnecessary condition. The condition for granting a licence to forest officials is also deleted if this is excluded or restricted by the laws governing their employment relations. That condition is a condition of excess and, under the current legal condition, a condition confusing, on the ground that Law No. 312/2002 Coll., on the Officials of the Administrative Departments and on the Amendment of Certain Acts, Act No. 324/2014 Coll., on the Civil Service, nor does the Labour Code, as regulations governing employment and service relations, restrict or exclude any such thing. In the event that those provisions contain a restriction or exclusion of the possibility of granting a licence, the provision of such conditions in the forest law is completely unnecessary. For the sake of completeness, it must be added that licensing is not in conflict with the interests of the employer. In conflict with the employer's interests, the performance of licensed activities in the administrative district where the official carries out the state administration of forests would be. However, this is already excluded by the laws governing employment and service relations. I will sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u15	Thank you, too. I would now invite Mr Holomčík to the microphone. I'll read the note by the time he gets here. He apologizes to us from 13.30 to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons, Mr Zlesák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things. One is to present four amendments that we have uploaded into the system today. We would like to open up a discussion on the woods, which is not primarily intended to fulfil economic functions, on the committee after the second reading, in the forests of special destination, in the forests protected, because according to the professional public, the current regulation is actually unnecessarily strict in forests where it doesn't make sense, and, on the contrary, the reduction of inclusion can help some better condition, better renewal and actually better biodiversity in the forest. Another amendment concerns the simplification of the situation for owners of small forests below 50 hectares in relation to the financing of professional forest farmers. Another amendment, which we have inspired especially in Austria. In the present form of forest law, in our opinion, there is already a ban on grazing in the forest. We would like to abolish this ban or add to the forest law that grazing is possible with the consent of the owner of the forest. It comes out, like I said, from Austrian inspiration. Now there is quite a lot of talk about agro-forestry. I very much welcome, and thank the Minister for this, that the Ministry has already become more concerned with the support of agro-forestry. I believe that this was also contributed by the seminar that Mr Jurečka and I did last May on this topic. We think that this is simply a natural continuation of the opening of doors by some kind of nature-friendly way of farming and what is now collectively called agro-forestry. The last amendment concerns the legisvacation period of this law. We have been informed that a number of private owners are waiting for this law as God's mercy, especially in the context of the money that the Ministry of Agriculture has allocated to support, and we want - and again it is for discussion - to bring a little closer to the moment when the help comes to forest owners. These are the amendments that I am still going to sign up for in detail in the debate. And then I'd like to talk about one more thing. I confess that when we discussed this law here on the agricultural committee, I was shocked by the Ministry's approach to the amendment to the Hunting Act, or the situation with regard to the increased game, which, in the opinion of both the professional public and forest owners, is one of the fundamentals, if not the biggest barrier to the recovery of the forest destroyed by the barking plant. I have not recovered from this so far, because in the reasoning of the dissenting position it was that the main point was that the Chamber of Deputies did not give such an assignment. Therefore, I would expect a slightly different approach from the supreme body of the state forest administration, especially since we are not the only ones here in the House, but the forestry universities, or faculties, draw attention to it by forest owners, forest farmers, even conservationists. And we think this is a really big problem, it's a fatal failure from my point of view. I really hope the Ministry will finally start dealing with this. [[13.10 hours]] Whether we like it or not, the Czech landscape is, in the vast majority of cases, a cultural landscape, which means it is linked to the activity of a person, which means that it is largely dependent on his activities. I would like to quote here one such beautiful thought that I recently heard at a seminar. You know what the fox said to malý Prince: "When you tame me, take care of me." And I'd like to ask the minister to finally start caring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u17	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Fialová, who is enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u18	Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to justify some amendments here, which I have prepared together with my colleague Schiller, but first I will start with a quote, or with a explanatory report presented by amendments to the forest law, which repeatedly talks about the need to amend the forest law in relation to climatic extremes, drought, the calamity of under-corn insects, but it does not address the consequences, not the causes of this condition. The government has committed itself in its programming declaration, and let me paraphrase - by practical measures we will strengthen the protection of forests, especially coniferous ones, which are currently seriously threatened by the effects of climate change, and we will advocate an environmentally appropriate solution to the lack of species and age diversification and catastrophic conditions in the forests. For these reasons, I have decided, together with my colleague Jan Schiller, to table amendments which actually reflect the Government's programming declarations, some of which are also part of the amendments from the Committee on the Environment. And I am very sorry that the Ministry of Agriculture disagrees with some of them and justifies having to go through a deeper expert discussion, while many of them are based on the observations and wishes of the foresters themselves who move in the woods every day. The proposed amendments fulfil the government-approved principles of state forestry policy of 2012, in particular to ensure the conservation of forest and forest land for future generations, to increase biodiversity in forests, ecosystems, their integrity and ecological stability, to promote forest management in order to preserve and enhance biodiversity in particular in order to bring forest vegetation closer to the natural composition of the forest and to be a habitat of natural species, to promote the preservation in the forest of the natural share of rolling wood, the extraction residues of trees expunged by the natural development of aging and melioration and strengthening of trees, to promote naturally close ways of forest management, including in the past traditional farming methods, to promote increasing the diversity of the species, age and spatial structure of the forest to ensure long-term stability of the forest, including increasing the share of leafy trees in forest growth. The amendments that we are proposing here today focus on the economic method and economic shape of the forest, where economic methods are extended to a selective one in which a single tree or a group of trees are managed, and the grazing one in which the forest crop of a particular age is managed and the possibility of combining them. Furthermore, the Ministry of Environment can issue a decree for the territory of national parks and their protection zones. And a substantial change to our amendment is the proposal to amend the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which addresses compensation for damage. The compensation for injury will not be paid for injury caused or sustained on land owned by the State. This will prevent transfers of funds within the State, where State resources are paid, in particular, to state-owned enterprises for damage to state land, on which the State declared, in particular, the conservation of nature. At the same time, the proposed amendment will eliminate the inequality between the operators, the applicants for injury who manage on their own land and those who use state land from another legal exploitation title. It is urgent to address this situation in particular as a result of the ongoing barking calamity, where, as a result of the restrictions on exploitation due to nature conservation, state enterprises can be created to compensate for damage in the order of up to hundreds of millions of crowns, which also entails a significant increase in the costs of administration of claims for compensation by the Agency for the Conservation of Nature and Landscape of the Czech Republic in the order of millions of crowns. [[entitlements]] The effects of bark sludge should be taken into account over a period of several years. I will sign up for the amendments in a detailed debate and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u19	Thank you, too. That was the last application in the general debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening up a debate in detail in which I have six applications. Mr Podal is the first to sign up, then Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, colleagues, I would like to sign up for an amendment to the 408, which is read in the system as House Document No. 2932. The reason message is also included. Reason: Existing text of § 32 para. 3 allows the State Forest Administration Authority to apply the measures provided for in Article 32 (3) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. At the same time, 2 decided who would bear the costs associated with it. Amendment point 4 in the Government's proposal waives this power of the State Forest Administration Authority without compensation and without justification. The proposed amendment point aims to maintain the existing legal status, which enables the authorities of the forest administration to carry the burden of implementing the emergency measures to the person benefiting from them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u21	Thank you, too. Next, please, to Mrs Pekarová. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. If Mrs Pekarová is not here, I will put her at the end and please Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u22	Thanks again for the word. I have presented the amendments I want to sign up for in the general debate. The justification for these proposals is, of course, part of the written form. The amendments are indeed purely practical. I beg their support. These are the amendments I am proposing to, under No. 2927, 2928 and 2929. I beg their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u23	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Kott. Mr. Holomčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the amendments that I have justified in the general debate. It is House Document No. 3001 concerning the licence of forest farmers and House document No. 3002 concerning the legislative technical regulation of the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u25	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Holomčík. Mrs. Fialová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to take this up with the proposals that I have presented in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u27	I would at least ask you for the number of the House document. If you don't know him at this point, please sign in again. Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Fialová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u28	I would like to sign up for the House document under No. 3112 on the basis of a general debate containing the economic method and economic shape of the forest, the Ministry of the Environment is also able to declare a decree in national parks and, as already stated in the general debate, an amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which addresses compensation for damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u29	Thank you, too. And please, Mrs Pekarová, who is already present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I want to sign up for the amendments that I have already justified here in the previous debate and are kept under the House documents numbers: 3111, 3113, 3115, 3116, 3117, 3118 and 3120. In short, it has already been explained. And, of course, you will also find explanatory reports in the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u31	Thank you. And now again, Mr Holomčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u32	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for the previous unpreparedness. I would like to sign up for the amendments under numbers 3123 and 3124 in the House of Deputies system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u33	Yes, thank you. They were justified in the general debate. This has exhausted all the applications for the debate. If no one else is reporting, I will also conclude a detailed debate. Again, I ask whether the applicant or rapporteur is interested in the final words. It's not like that. In that case, I note that there have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Mr. Benda is now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u34	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, if we have an extremely important point ahead of us and this is an inland voyage, it would not be the happiest thing for us to decide in a more or less random composition. Therefore, I propose that all the following items of this meeting be dismissed and the meeting terminated today. And hopefully we'll meet in September, though it's not entirely certain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-009-024.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have a proposal for a procedure on this matter, so I'm going to read it. If anyone doesn't have a match with him, we'll deal with it. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] It is customary to end on Friday at two o'clock, however, I have here an agreement by the Presidents of the Clubs who propose to exclude the remaining unnegotiated items from the approved agenda of the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in the case of Senate returns, in particular because the senators are not present. So the motion for a procedure is that first we will vote individually on the exclusion of points from the bill block returned or rejected by the Senate and then on the elimination of other unnegotiated points from the 33rd meeting. So if no one has any other proposal as to how we would proceed, we would vote first on the elimination of the House's press 150, which is the proposal for an inland navigation law. There's a checkout request. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. [[Sounds like a gong. Many Members are coming into the hall.]] We'll wait for the number of applicants to settle down, and then we'll have a procedural vote. We still have an increase in login. Looks like that's it. I repeat, we will vote that we will disable the House Press 157 from the agenda of the meeting - the draft law on inland navigation. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for elimination. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 124 vote includes 129 Members and Members of Parliament, for 96, against 13. The proposal was adopted, and the House Press has been eliminated. Now there is a proposal for the elimination of the House press 179, it is a draft law on the tax on the acquisition of real estate. Initiating vote number 125. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 125, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 96, against 8. The motion was accepted. I have here a factual remark by Mr Navrkal, but that is, I presume, a mistake. Furthermore, there is a proposal for the elimination of the House's press 200, which is a proposal for the Sales Time Act in retail trade. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for elimination. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 126, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 106, against 4. The motion was accepted. Another is the proposal for the elimination of the House's press 72 - a draft law on experts. Who's up for elimination? I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 127, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 108, against 4. The motion has been accepted, this press has been eliminated. It is also the House press 73 - draft law on judicial interpreters - proposal to exclude from the agenda of the meeting. I started voting number 128. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against elimination? Thank you. In the vote number 128, 135 Members and Members are registered, for 117, against 4. The motion was accepted. Another for elimination is the House's press 74 - draft law in connection with the adoption of the law on experts and expert offices. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for elimination. Who's against it? The number 129 vote includes 135 Members and Members of Parliament, 113, versus 4. The motion was accepted. The last Senate return is the House Press 273 - a draft law on municipalities, regions and the capital city of Prague. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for elimination. Who's against it? In the 130 vote, 135 Members and Members are registered, for 110, against 9. The motion was accepted. We have dealt with all the backs and rejected proposals in the Senate. We will therefore now vote to exclude all other remaining unnegotiated points from the 33rd meeting. Initiating vote number 131. I'm asking who's in favour of eliminating all the remaining unnegotiated points. Who's against it? In the vote number 131, 134 Members and Members are registered, for 104, against 7. The motion was accepted. I note that we have discussed the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because we have no points left, and I am ending it with this. Thank you all for coming. I'll see you after the holidays. Have a nice summer.
