ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies) and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 38/9/ - rejected by the Senate This proposal was renegotiated on Friday 15 March of this year at the 27th meeting. The motion was interrupted in the debate. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I would remind you that the resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House Press 38/10 and, at the same time, this motion was delivered by House Document 2342, which contains the Senate Resolution 112 of the 6th meeting of 27 February 2019. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of Mr Stanislav Grospič, or one of the other plaintiffs, and Senator Tomáš Goláň is already present. We will continue the adjourned debate. Mr Marek Benda's speech was suspended at the 27th meeting on Friday 15 March 2019. If the Member is present, he may enter and continue his speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, who has missed lunch, can go and have it in peace. As promised last time, I am ready to read the entire brochure that we received from churches and religious societies. Last time I got to page 15. It has a total of 34 pages, so my speech will undoubtedly -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u3	I'm gonna cut you off for a second and ask for some peace in the room! If you have anything to do, please go to the foyer. Thank you. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u4	May I, Mr President? Thank you, Mr President. I will first of all read the brochure, which you no doubt did not have time to go into properly, and then I would have made a few more personal and systemic comments, especially on what was said during the previous debate. So we're going back to point 2.5 of the internal debt on the church property that has been calculated. Nationalized church property consisted mainly of buildings estimated at approximately CZK 43.7 billion, agricultural and forestry land and water areas with a total value of approximately CZK 91.1 billion. The estimate of revenues that churches and religious institutions could not carry out between 1948 and 2012 due to the nationalisation of assets is given in Table 2. I'm taking the liberty of quoting Table 2 because I think it's important. Table 2 Estimate of revenues from nationalized church property between 1948 and 2012. The value of the property in relation to buildings, approximately CZK 43.7 billion, is assumed to be an annual return on buildings based on this value is based, for example, on Act 107/2006 on unilateral increase of rent from the apartment and on amendment of the Civil Code, 5%. The number of years for which property could not be used is 65 years, the total yield that was not realised in favour of churches and religious societies is CZK 142.03 billion. If we are talking about land property, then at CZK 91.1 billion and annual yield of 1% in the number of years, again 65 years, this value is CZK 59.22 billion. [[14.40 hours]] The proceeds of the total assets for the period when they were nationalized by the state are CZK 201.25 billion. If we deduct the corporation tax of 19 %, which is CZK 38,24 billion, we will also see that the return after tax of the total of which the churches and religious societies were in the period from 1948 to 2012 is CZK 163,01 billion. The total amount of income lost from immovable church property is estimated to be approximately CZK 163 billion. Taking into account only the lost return from the seized immovable property since 1990, the beginning of the restitution process, that is, the restitution process of natural persons, until 2012, when a political consensus on the restitution of church property was reached in the following year, we will reach CZK 57.66 billion. As you can see, this amount is higher than the total amount paid to churches and religious societies. During the period 1948 to 2012, churches and religious societies received a accumulated sum of CZK 56,79 billion from the state budget, while the loss of profits of churches and religious societies over the same period amounted to CZK 163,01 billion. The difference of CZK 106.22 billion represents an internal debt on the property of churches and religious societies, which could not be invested in its restoration. It is reflected not only in the current state of property but also in the financial condition of churches and religious societies. Unrealised investments will have to be made sooner or later, exclusively through the own funds of churches and religious societies. Chapter 3 - Identification of key differences in restitution legislation Point 3.1. Compulsory persons. According to Law No. 229/1991 Coll., on the modification of property relations to land and other agricultural property, are obliged persons in the restitution process of natural and private legal persons state or legal persons who hold the property on the date of application of the law - Section 5, paragraph 1 of the cited law. In the case of religious restitution, Section 4 of Law No. 428/2012 Sb. only the following obliged persons: Land fund of the Czech Republic, Forests of the Czech Republic, s. p., state contribution organizations, state fund, state enterprise and other state organisations. In order to avoid further property and other injustices as part of the restitution of church property, the definition of compulsory persons was considerably narrowed, with which the churches and religious societies agreed without reservation. This is why unissued property owned by municipalities, legal entities and other entities was to be compensated by a financial compensation. Point 3.2. Determination of the amount of the financial compensation. To calculate the amount of the financial compensation, the key input was the value of the total volume of the original assets to which the churches and other religious institutions were entitled according to documented documentation. These properties were divided into the following categories: agricultural land, forest land, water areas, built-up areas and buildings and other areas. The properties in each category had a different value depending on their state and position. Agricultural land in the vicinity of Prague is undoubtedly of diametrically different value than agricultural land in other regions of the Czech Republic. Therefore, an average value has been determined in each of these categories, such as the average value of the hectare of agricultural land, the average value of the hectare of forest land, etc. Since a number of land from the original property of churches and religious societies in 1948 was blocked at the time of restitution, for example for the construction of motorways and other infrastructure, the construction of public buildings or in the property of legal entities or municipalities, this property could not be returned. Only the Land Fund of the Czech Republic and the Forests of the Czech Republic, s. p. At the same time, the market price of these blocked properties was often significantly higher than the value determined according to the average in the given category. For example, the following properties may be listed. Examples of unreleased agricultural land: Kyje cadastral office - plot number 2589/38, exchange in square meters 20 342 metres, value according to the Institute for the Development of Prague in 2012 CZK 6 080, fixed financial compensation in crowns per square metre 44,48 CZK per m2. The difference in millions of crowns is 122 775 000 to the detriment of churches and religious societies. Devil - plot number 1729/129, area 7 374 m2, value 5 260, fixed financial compensation - as well as everywhere - 44,48. The difference in the failure of churches and religious societies 38 459 000. Kobylisy - plot 2286/4, area 604 meters, value 5 290, loss to the detriment of churches and religious societies 3, 168,000. The agricultural parcels listed in Table 3 were valued at an average rate of CZK 44,48 per m2, but for example the market price of the agricultural parcel in Kyjích, plot 2589/38, quoted by me, was CZK 6 080 in 2012 according to the price map. The difference in the valuation of this asset item was 122 775 000. Similarly, in many other cases, the market price of the land deviated from the fixed average rate by thousands of crowns per square metre. Only from the cadastral territory of Prague were more than 130 hectares of agricultural land issued to churches and religious societies. The situation is illustrated by graph number 1, in which the price of the eligible agricultural parcels is set at an average value of CZK 44,48 per m2. The churches and religious companies were mainly issued only land at prices below the established average value, a blue area, a number of land with prices above the average value, a red area, churches and religious companies were not physically issued. These unissued land, although their prices exceed the average value, were valued at a single price when calculating the amount of the financial compensation. This made the financial compensation of churches and religious societies considerably difficult, as shown by the examples in Table 3. I don't think I can read your chart here. Significant price deviations were also made when the amount of the financial compensation for the buildings not issued was fixed. For illustration, however, we mention only the market value of the land on which these buildings stand. For example, the value of the plot on which the Arnošta railway building of Pardubice located at Voršilská 144, Prague 1, was 27 900 CZK per m2 according to the price map in 2016. The amount of the financial compensation for this property, the plot including the building, was set at CZK 13 188 000. A mere plot without a building with an area of 1 152 m2 was worth CZK 32,140 million. [[14.50 hours]] Thus, the financial compensation for churches and religious societies was far from near the value of the plot, let alone the value of the whole building. Table No 4 Examples of unpublished buildings. The address of voršilský - I have already quoted, I quote at least the others. Thunovská 178/10, Prague, plot area 405 m2, estimated price of the plot in CZK per square metre 28 340. A fixed financial compensation of 5 964 000; value of the parcel in 2016 11 477 000. Vítkova 350/34 in Prague, plot size 481 m2, estimated price of plot 16 380 CZK per metre, fixed financial compensation in CZK 6 013 000. The value of the plot - only the plots - in 2016 7 879 000. The fair value of these and a number of other unissued real estates exceeds the average value of all real estates in a given category entering the calculation of the financial compensation. However, the church institutions did not claim any additional compensation for any of the unissued real estate whose market price deviated on a diametrical basis from the established average value. The total financial compensation was set at 59 billion on average. CZK, although the real value of the assets not issued differed significantly. Compromising use of average values resulted in a similar reduction in the amount of financial compensation for churches and religious societies in the determination of compensation for physically unissued buildings, see Table 4. 4, as in the case of unissued agricultural parcels. Point 3.3. Not required replacement for live and dead inventory. Section 1 of Government Decree No 20/1992 Coll. provide that, in cases where the removal of a live and dead inventory as well as stocks cannot be demonstrated, or their contribution to an agricultural cooperative during the period from 25 February 1948 to 1 January 1990, or where their present value cannot be determined, the compensation for such goods shall be determined on the basis of the standards fixed per hectare of agricultural or forestry land. (A) Agricultural land. Input values for calculation. The standard of the live inventory per hectare of agricultural land corresponds to one large livestock unit, one large livestock unit consisting according to the following table: one cow, one breeding bull, 0,22 calf, 0,47 bovine animals up to one year, 0,70 bovine animals between one and two years old, 1 cattle over two years, 1 high-breed heifers, 0,65 cattle in fattening, 0,30 sows or boars, 0,02 piglets, 0,12 young breeding pigs or pigs for fattening, 0,0025 poultry in total, 0,10 total sheep and horses up to three years 0,75. [[Section 3 (b) Article 4 (1) (a) and]] [[Annex No 3 to Government Order No 20/1992 Coll.]] The standard of the dead inventory per hectare of agricultural land is determined according to the following formula, which is also defined in Annex 2: Cn, which is the total entitlement to compensation for the dead inventory, is equal to Mo, which is the property of the organization to the dead inventory in thousands of crowns times. [[Section 3 (b) 2]] [[AO times hectares, AO is the coefficient resulting from the table, hectares of course is the number of hectares of the applicant plus AI times hectares]] With the assumption that these coefficients AO and AI are further listed in the table - those I will no longer read to you, I would probably tire you too much by reading this table. The standard feed and stalk per hectare of agricultural land is set at CZK 8,500. [[Section 3 (b) 3 of the Law]] The standard of seeds, seed and plantings per hectare of unseeded or unplanted agricultural land is set at CZK 1,700. [[Section 3 (b) 4 of the Act]] After inclusion in the above formulae, the calculation of the compensation for the dead inventory belonging to agricultural land shall take the following form: 5 Calculation of compensation for dead inventory belonging to agricultural land. As far as the dead inventory is concerned, the coefficient A0 is 1,900 ha, 72 202, the coefficient AI is 0, the applicant's claim at 1992 prices would be 137 183 800. The applicant's claim at 2012 prices would be CZK 280 540 871. It's just about all those still mentioned, how the restitutions of the original owners were many times more disadvantageous. Regarding feed and litter, if we are talking about 8,500 crowns per hectare of agricultural land 36 101 ha. The applicant's claim at 1992 prices would be 306 858 500, the applicant's claim at 2012 prices would be CZK 627 525 633. If we are talking about seed and seed, then with a standard of CZK 1,700 per hectare of agricultural land of 36 101 hectares, the applicant's entitlement in 1992 would be CZK 61 371 700 and the applicant's entitlement at 2012 prices would be CZK 125 505 127. In total, if we added up these compensations for the living and dead inventory, the claim for churches and religious societies that would have been created if we had gone the same way as the original restitution of natural and private legal persons would have been CZK 505 414 000 in 1992; in 2012 prices would be 1 033 571 631 CZK. If it is based on the above standards, i.e. that the standard for compensation for live inventory per hectare of agricultural land is one large livestock unit, see the table characterizing the large livestock unit, the replacement for live inventory for churches and religious societies would be 36 101 cows or, alternatively, 36 101 breeding bulls. The average price for one tonne of cow in live condition was 23 036 CZK according to the Czech Statistical Office in 2012. Assuming that the average weight of the cow is half a tonne, the total financial loss for the unissued cattle is 415,811 million. Crowns. B) Forest land. Input values for calculation. The standard of living and dead inventory per hectare of forest land is set at CZK 850. [[Paragraph 3a (b) is replaced by ……]] The value of this refund shall be calculated in accordance with Annex No. 3, i.e. the total refund is 850 times the number of hectares times k, which is the coefficient resulting from the table. And that's where I'm not gonna read you the coefficients, depending on the size of the scale. [[15.00 hours]] The standard of seedlings and forest seed per hectare of forest land is set at CZK 125. [[Paragraph 3a (b) is replaced by ……]] After insertion into the above formula, the calculation of compensation for live and dead inventory, including seedlings and seeds belonging to forest land, shall take the following form. Table No 6. Calculation of compensation for live and dead inventory belonging to forest land. Standard 850 CZK, area of forest land 181 326 ha - coefficient 0,3, total applicant's entitlement at 1992 prices 46 238 130 CZK, total applicant's entitlement at 2012 prices 94 556 975 CZK. As regards seedlings and seed of forest trees - standard 125 CZK, area of forest land the same: 181 326 ha, then the applicant's entitlement at 1992 prices would be CZK 22 665 750 and the applicant's total entitlement at 2012 prices would be CZK 46 351 459. Total compensation for live and dead inventory in respect of forest land would amount to CZK 68 903 880 at 1992 prices, CZK 140 908 435 at 2012 prices. The total amount of compensation for the living and dead inventory of forest land according to the calculation is CZK 68,904 000, which would increase by the end of 2012 to CZK 140,908 000. The replacement for a live and dead inventory was a commonly realized part of the restitution of property of natural and private legal persons. Churches and religious societies gave up this compensation in order to find a compromise solution. Point 4 Consequences of the amendment. According to the original agreement and under Act No. 428/2012 Sb. the financial compensation for unissued immovable property was set at 59 billion. Crowns. This amount was to be paid gradually to churches and religious companies in regular instalments for 30 years, approximately 1.97 billion. CZK annually, the instalments being audited annually by the rate of inflation in order to maintain the fair value of the financial compensations contracted. According to the amendment to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. The payment should be reduced annually by 19 per cent of corporate tax. Every year, they return 373.66 million to the state budget. Crowns. This amount corresponds to only 0,036 per cent of the total revenue of the State budget of 2018. In terms of the revenue side of the state budget, this amount is irrelevant. It is even one third lower than the annual average statistical correction of budget revenue. These corrections represent a random variable whose amount cannot be determined in advance. It is not known whether budget revenue will increase or decrease in a given year. This means that the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic does not systematically count on the revenue side of the budget and it can create a maximum reserve for expenditure. In the total amount of revenues of the state budget of the Czech Republic, the taxation of church compensation will represent a negligible sum. On the contrary, for the budgets of churches and religious societies, this amount would represent a loss for which they would have to correct their investment projects, which would allow the reduction and subsequent termination of the mandatory payments to churches and religious companies from the state budget in 2029. To illustrate: For example, the annual amount of church compensation tax would cover the normal annual operating costs of 13 church hospices. In 2017, the total annual cost of St. Lazarus' Hospital, in which 310 patients were treated during the year, was CZK 28,100 000. As a result of the taxation of church compensation, the original total financial compensation would be 59 billion. kroner cumulatively reduced by more than 11.2 billion. Crowns. The projection and the difference in the amount of the instalments illustrates Chart No. 2. For graph No. 2 I'm sure you'll have to look at your brochure for yourself, because I can't communicate it to you here on the microphone. Point 4.1. Breach of existing financial compensation agreements. Property settlement with churches was in addition to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Legally enshrined through concluded settlement agreements with individual churches and religious societies. These contracts - 16 of them in total - were published by the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic on 28. 2. 2013 in Collection of Laws No. 55/2013. The contract with each particular church or religious society always includes, inter alia, the specific amount of financial compensation granted or the specification of the contribution to the promotion of activity. The key is Article 5, namely paragraph 2, which explicitly states: The purpose of this Treaty is governed by the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies, as effective at the date of conclusion of this Treaty. Amendment to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. repeals the original wording of the Act and therefore also distorts the original conditions laid down in the contracts in force. Changing the terms of the contract in force without any discussion with the other party, in this case by churches and religious societies, is unethical, unlawful and challenges the requirement of legal certainty as one of the principles of the rule of law. Clause 4.2 Risking the financial sustainability of churches and religious societies following the cessation of mandatorial expenditures for churches and religious societies. However, the amendment ignores the second intention to reconcile the relationship between the state and the churches and religious societies, which is to end the dictatorial expenditure from the state budget of the Czech Republic for the benefit of churches and religious societies and their self-financing after 2029. The Czech Republic has a valid Act No. 428/2012 Sb. the obligation to financially subsidize the budgets of churches and religious societies by 2029 and the contribution is reduced by 5% of the amount of 1.44 billion each year from 2016. Crowns. In 2019 this amount will therefore amount to 1.15 billion. Crowns. It will cover the cost of clergy activity, including the salaries of clergymen. Churches will have to compensate for the state budget spending in 2012, covering their total cost of clergy activity, including clergy salaries, of 1.5 billion. crowns a year. Churches and religious societies cannot do this in any other way than through the proceeds of business, mostly with returned real estate and financial assets. They should do business with this capital in such a way that, after 30 years, they reach an annual yield of at least 1.5 billion. CZK in 2012 prices. Given the state, structure and allocation of this property, this is a difficult task. [[15.10 hours]] Inefficient use of the returned assets in full would make it impossible to achieve the financial sustainability of individual churches and religious societies. Losses of management or other property damage would make it difficult for churches to maintain their current level of spending in the future, especially after 2043, when the compensatory contribution will be paid. Taxation of financial compensation for churches and religious societies pursuant to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. 19 per cent will represent a accumulated loss of CZK 11.2 billion for churches and religious societies. This sum will in fact prevent the fulfilment of the second - accompanying - intention of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., which is the effective independence of churches and religious societies on the state, expressed by the termination of the state budget spending on churches and religious societies by 2029. Point 4.3 Risk of long-term budgetary savings resulting from Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Although the payment of a state contribution to churches in the framework of the settlement of relations between the state and the churches and religious societies will end in 2029, it will issue a State budget for churches less this year than it would have had to issue if the church settlement had not taken place. After 30 years of adoption of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. disappears in 2043 the item of mandatory expenditure on churches and religious societies from the state budget of the Czech Republic. In 2048 the total costs of churches and religious societies will be equalized and the cost of ecclesiastical settlement with the state's budget expenditure on churches should there be no settlement - see Chart 3, which you need to study on your own again, because I can't communicate it here on the microphone. In 2062, fifty years from the settlement of relations between the state and the churches and religious societies, the accumulated budget savings - budget savings, I stress - CZK 28,63 billion in 2011 prices compared to the situation if the adoption of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. did not occur or if the amendment to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. has become effective. Now you have graph 4, which you will probably need to study separately again. The figure 4 shows the expenditure of the state budget of the Czech Republic if it were to adopt Act No. 428/2012 Sb. I didn't. The graph shows a dynamic increase in spending on churches and religious societies in the regime of the state budget's management expenditure from 1998 to 2012, when Law No. 428/2012 Sb. The budget savings of the following year will be increased by taxes on ecclesiastical property, respectively. taxes on its income, about CZK 3.8 billion and with increasing returns on church property should increase in the following years. The total savings for the state budget of the Czech Republic for the period 2013 to 2062 will be estimated to be CZK 28.63 billion in the structure according to Table 7, if amended by Act No. 428/2012 Sb. the taxation of financial compensation to churches and religious societies will not come into effect. - Now you have a table number seven, which please see for yourself. And I'm getting closer to the end. Recap. The settlement of the relationship between churches and religious societies and the State was not based on 100% property restitution, in the event of the impossibility of the physical extradition of the claimed property to full financial compensation, but on the social consensus that resulted from the many years of complex conduct of representatives of the state and churches and religious societies. Churches and religious societies from 1948 to 2012 received from the state budget a accumulated amount of CZK 56,79 billion, lost profits of churches and religious societies for the same period amounted to CZK 163,01 billion. The difference of CZK 106.22 billion represents an internal debt on the property of churches and religious societies, which could not be invested in restoration, is reflected not only in the current state of property but also in the financial condition of churches and religious societies. Lost investments will have to be realized sooner or later, through the own funds of churches and religious societies. For the next one. Churches and religious societies during many years and complex negotiations on the settlement of relations between the state and churches and religious societies, respectively. negotiations on the preparation of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., voluntarily renounced the right to compensation for a live and dead inventory of at least CZK 1.59 billion. The agreement of churches and religious societies, thanks to which the Roman Catholic Church renounced 20 percent of the claim for financial compensation for the benefit of the other 16 churches and religious societies in the total amount of CZK 11.8 billion, is de facto a transfer in favour of the state budget of the Czech Republic, without which it would not be possible to implement a gradual reduction of the mandatorial expenditure from the state budget until their cessation in 2042. Property settlement of relations with churches and religious societies follows not one but two intentions: firstly, the return of church property as a means of mitigating the consequences of certain property and other injustices committed by the totalitarian regime, secondly, the independent position of the Church on the state expressed by gradual reduction and final cessation of payment of the dictatorial expenses of churches and religious societies in 2043. Come in. The methodology for determining the value of church property was the result of many years of work, complex negotiations and finding the final consensus reached by the church and government commission in 2011. The method of calculation was verified by the renowned international consultancy Ernst and Young. At this point in time, the reasoning about the questioning is completely out of place. Quantification of the amount of the financial compensation. The fair value of the immovable property not issued exceeds the fixed amount of the financial compensation based on the average value in that category. Therefore, it is unlikely that the financial compensation for unissued immovable property has been overvalued. The arguments put forward by the amendments to the law on religious restitution are based on misleading economic arguments. The reasoned report does not contain factual and logically Argumentated reasons for the amendment of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Churches and religious societies will lose CZK 11.2 billion to tax their financial compensation. The tax burden represents a financial loss of CZK 373.66 million per year, which will total CZK 11.2 billion in 2042 by the end of the payment of the financial compensation. This amount will not be able to be invested and used effectively to ensure future financial sustainability of churches and religious societies. This amount corresponds to approximately 0,036 percent of the revenue of the State budget in 2018. In terms of state budget revenues, for example, it is irrelevant when, for example, the random statistical correction of budget revenues in 2012 to 2016, on average, amounted to 0,055%, whereas for churches and religious societies, it represents a 19 percent reduction in financial compensation. Taxation of financial compensation may prevent the implementation of the projects necessary to achieve the financial sustainability of churches and religious societies after 2042. [[15.20 hours]] For the next one. Taxation of financial compensation will prevent the achievement of the accumulated net contribution of the state budget of the Czech Republic by 2062 amounting to CZK 28.63 billion. By amendment of Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, the applicable financial settlement agreements between the State and the churches and religious societies would be violated and amended. Changing valid contracts without the consent of the other Contracting Party is an unethical, non-standard, unlawful and challenging requirement of legal certainty as a fundamental principle of the rule of law. So much for the publications that you all received in your mailboxes, but which I wanted to hear on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, until then we go to the Constitutional Court. So that no one could make excuses that he did not have sufficient ground for his vote. And because I see that there are a number of other applicants, I prefer them at this point, I will let them speak and then I will sign up again with my personal speech. This was merely a message of how renowned economists and lawyers who worked up this study for churches and religious societies came forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u5	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Before we continue to speak with Miroslav Kalousek's priority right, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the House, and this is Julius Špičák's apology from 18 to 19 o'clock for working reasons, from 15 o'clock for working reasons by Mr. Skopeček and from 14 o'clock for work reasons he apologizes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We will therefore continue the debate. Mr Kalousek will take the floor, but he is not here, so his priority right is forfeit. We will continue with Mr Jiří Mašek's speech, Mrs Golasowská will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of the church restitutions was contributed by Act No.428/2012 Coll. The foundation stone was thus laid to compensate the state then represented by Prime Minister Nečas on the one hand and representatives of 16 churches on the other in the form of contractual arrangements confirming the resolution of church restitution claims against the State. What was stolen must be returned. There's a definite consensus on that. But what really happened to church restitution? From the outset, this was not a standard restitution process, which was still ongoing between the state and the restitutionists of a number of natural persons, where restitution legislation has always dealt with only partial compensation of injustices and has always solved only partial compensation of restitutions. The decisive date for determining the claims of the churches was February 25, 1948. The contracts of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and the representatives of the Churches of 2013 confirmed an opaque total claim by churches valued at CZK 134 billion and agreed a solution of 75 billion in kind, i.e. the return of fields, forests and real estate, and 59 billion in financial transactions of CZK 2 billion per year over the next 30 years, taking into account inflation. The fundamental error of the entire concept of compensation is the absence of a valid list of agricultural and forestry land at the decisive date of expropriation. Such a list has always been a condition for natural persons to claim restitution. In contrast to the physical restitutionrs, the churches did not have to prove ownership of the acquired property. It should be stressed that the treaties granted the churches the right to land and forests in the total area of 225 thousand ha, i.e. before the first land reform in 1919. But how did the area of fields and forests in church ownership develop in time? Before 1919 in Czechoslovakia, churches owned land of 234 thousand ha. The decision of the democratic parliament, with the consent of President Masaryk, was the first land reform by the Church under Act No. 225/1919 Coll. She took 166,000 ha. The process of the first land reform then took place between 1923 and 1927. In 1947, a democratic parliament approved a revision of the first reform of 1919 was again carried out, and the churches were deprived of property over 50 hectares. After February 1948 under Act No. 46/1948 Coll., on new land reform, the churches lost the rest of their property. These are facts that were not respected in 2012. If we correctly take into account the fact that the withdrawal of land to churches under the 1947 law was not bookmarked on new owners and the state of the church did not match the removed land, then we are already breaking into 1948 and going before July 1947. In view of the previously mentioned movement of the area of land owned by churches, it appears to be an entirely unfounded requirement of the churches for land in the total area of 225 thousand ha. The requirement not only breaks in 1948, it goes not only before the first land reform was revised in 1947, but even before the first land reform in 1919. The Treaty of Church Representatives with Prime Minister Nečas thus greatly increases the claim of the Church as regards the total area of land, but also admits 2,5 to 6 times higher financial performance on unissued land than corresponds to the valid price decree No. 316/1990 Coll. For the total compensation of 134 billion signed in the Premier's contracts with churches, there is a corrected government option of CZK 81 billion and a substitute for the restitution of natural persons, so-called. RFO max., i.e. at maximum prices for the restitution of natural persons for 65 billion, respectively. at average prices, RFO average, for 30 billion. All of this without conflicting the total amount claimed. These options already result in overpriced restitutions ranging from 54 billion, which is the number used by the Prime Minister in the past, up to CZK 104 billion; in the event of a contradiction of the measure, it would be even more substantial. What was the actual amount of assets issued in mid-2018? The buildings were transferred without any major problems. 133 thousand ha of forests and 36 thousand ha of agricultural land were transferred, a total of 169 thousand ha of land, more than what the churches were really entitled to. It can be said with certainty that in-kind transactions of 75 billion combined with the financial compensation paid up to and including 2019, i.e. more than 15 billion from 2013 to 2019, fully covered the legitimate restitution claims of the churches; Therefore, it has already been met in compensation of more than CZK 90 billion. We do not question the validity of the agreements between Prime Minister Nečas and the churches in the commitment to repaying the Church to CZK 2 billion per year, we merely claim that the legitimate claim of the Church has already been fully fulfilled. What was stolen was returned. That's over. Now nothing prevents further payments to churches after 2020 from being taxed as a standard. Any further payments by the state are already the net income of the churches. Such income in the Czech Republic should not be missed by the Church. These are the reasons why I recommended that the ANO parliamentary club vote in favour of taxation of church restitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u7	I thank Mr Jiří Mašek. Mrs Golasowská will now appear, Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. Mrs. Golasowská, although I have announced that after the performance of my colleague Mašek will be... [[There are voices from the O.R. saying she's excused.]] She's excused. So I'm erasing. Mrs Pekarová is not present either, so she is failing. Jiří Mihola's colleague now. I don't see him either. So, Mr. colleague Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u8	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thought that some of them would still be performing, but apparently they did not expect to take things so quickly, so I only let Mr Mašek in front of me. I, perhaps, have just a few brief remarks which I think should be made on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies. The first point concerns repeated claims brought to us by the Communist Party of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia in particular, that it was not the property of churches and religious societies that churches and religious societies were never the owner of this property. So I would just like to point out that their predecessors in the government in 1948 assumed that this was property of churches and religious societies, and if we read the Law of 14 October 1949 on economic security for churches and religious societies, approved by the State in 1949, in Section 10 states: The State watches over the property of churches and religious societies. - He assumes that the property of churches and religious societies was involved. - Representatives of churches and religious societies and administrators of church property shall draw up an inventory of all movable and immovable property and property rights of churches and religious societies, their constituents, communities, constitutions, foundations, eyebrows and funds and submit it within three months of the beginning of this law to the State Office for Church Affairs. Details are provided by the State Office for Ecclesiastical Affairs. Any alienation or binding property of churches and religious societies requires prior approval of the state administration. This is, please, the wording of Section 10 of the Economic Security Act of the Churches and Religious Communities of 1949 under which they are signed, inter alia. Gottwald, Zápotocký, Široký, Fierligner, Čepička, Kopecký and others and other ministers of the Communist government in 1949. So even Gottwald and his companions were sure that it was property of churches and religious societies, not some other property. This is the first comment on the ownership itself, which has been repeatedly questioned here by the representatives of the Communist Party. The second point, which I think must be made, concerns what Mr Mašek has repeatedly mentioned here. There, first of all, the figures, the 58,000 hectares of the original church property, are basically untraceable. That's Senator Hada's statement, the First Senator. But what's more important is that, both within the first revision of the land reform, only over 250 hectares of property were claimed. This means all the property of land, especially with churches and religious societies, so it was that, as we had the membership of the Republic, only a very small part was held by those large owners, such as the Bishopship or some orders, and of course the vast majority of the property was held by the parishes and the very individual ones, where, of course, the area was not above 250. That means the numbers that don't work for you, but they don't work just because we're talking about assets that were in the small possession of individual church legal entities that... have always been respected that the church isn't one legal person, but have always been a conglomerate of legal entities. Even just for quote: Within the first land... The above figure thus does not refer to the total assets of church entities at the time of the first land reform, but only to the property of those church legal entities with an area of over 250,000 hectares. After the land reform, church legal entities in the Czech lands remained around 84.59 percent of the property, the entire Republic remained 84.14 percent of the occupied land at the church estates. - Evžen Červinka, How the land reform was carried out on the large estates of the Roman Catholic Church. So it's just a 1933 publication. Well, then, just to clarify. Nor is it possible for any property to be issued, and this is clearly already apparent from Act 428/2012 Coll. For every property to be distributed to churches and religious societies, it must be clear, first, that it belonged to the church or religious society in 1948. That's the most important thing that's being investigated. Then some other parameters of the law must be fulfilled, such as, of course, that they must be held by the State Fund or the Forests of the Czech Republic, s. p., but, generally speaking, in any issue, it is reviewed whether, in 1948, such property was registered on the list of property in the land books by the Church and the religious society as the owner of the property in question, and if it were not, such property cannot, of course, be issued. Thus, nothing that was not owned by churches and religious societies in 1948 can be published. That's the second point. The third, which I consider perhaps the most essential for considering all those who, perhaps, are still considering whether it is worth paying the Communist Party this price to vote for this absolutely unconstitutional and immoral law. The Communist Party, as always, has dealt with accounts especially with the Catholic Church, which it hated historically, has persecuted historically, and this is how it has been going until today, and nothing has changed. The Catholic Church was also the only one who could maintain at least some structure of resistance against the Communist regime. At the same time, however, we should not forget, and I have said it repeatedly here, of course this bill is much more damaging to all other churches and religious societies and to the Jewish community than to the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church, let's say, has 70 percent, if not more, property issued directly, which, of course, is not subject to any taxation, and only a part of the compensation is paid and the 20 percent, as quoted here, has given up in favour of other churches and religious societies. That is, if this House only accepts the taxation of the financial compensation paid, then the one who is most at it is not the Catholic Church, to which Communist targeting is, of course, directed, but are other churches and religious societies. Of course, not in global figures, but in terms of what they are shutting down and how they are supposed to prepare for self-financing after 2027 or 2043, when these shares that are paid will definitely run out, so, of course, it is much worse for all the smaller churches that exist here and for the Jewish religious community than for the Catholic Church. And I think that anyone who is considering whether or not to raise his hand for this immoral law should also realize, and it will certainly be one of the essential arguments that we will then bring to the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, then, another entry into the debate - Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Jiří Mihola. So my colleague Jiří Mihola, because Miroslav Kalousek came to me saying that he insists on his application, but that he will be at the end. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for having to sign up again. I was discussing a school problem so intensely that I didn't hear my name, but I'm here and ready. As a teacher, I would almost have the urge, I mean, she's a repeat mother of wisdom. And I have this brochure quoted here by Marek Benda, a colleague, so that we would take it again for a better memory, but I won't bother you so much, I'll just refer to it in the sense that I think it's really good and that it's good to just study these things in peace. [[shows the brochure]] Personally, I would only need very little space, I am clear on this matter, as well as, I think, colleagues from KDU-ČSL and I believe from other democratic parties. What was stolen has to be returned, that's a clear thesis. There's nothing incomprehensible about that. Just like it's completely immoral to want to tax a stolen thing. We all know that, but I'm still sorry that some of them are looking at it alibisically, and when they're running around, they're discussing it, they're actually thinking that the Constitutional Court will sort it all out anyway. I don't think this alibiism is okay, that we should be able to name things, talk things out here in plenary and not do anything stupid and immoral. As a teacher and as a historian, I could lean on a number of authority in this area, because it's a thing, yes, it's a thing of history. And it seems to me that with our historical memory it is sometimes very bad and with those historical knowledge as well, which I am very sorry, because whoever misunderstood the history is condemning himself to repeat it again because of the previous mistakes. I have an article here that came out. It's no, don't worry, a Christian-oriented medium. It is a famous historical magazine for the broadest public interested in history, history and the present. Perhaps you know many. He came out in the '60s. Then he couldn't go for normalization. And since '90, again. And here, first of all, as an entry, I have the opening part that relates to the connection with the past, which many argue. And I'll actually use the argumentist here in this article by my colleague from the University of South Bohemia, who is here dealing with this time and issue, my colleague Ivo Cerman is called. And so it refers to this - it came out in History and the present No. 10 in 2012. So it's not like it's outdated, because even then, as you know, the discussion was opening up, it's pulling like Ariadnin's thread, which is sad, because for those bright things, maybe we wouldn't really have to waste energy and time and could have been closed to the cause long ago. The article is called Return Before Joseph II.?, with the subtitle Myth of the absence of church ownership. And I could quote it freely, but I'd rather stick to the author directly, so someone wouldn't say that I'd left out an important word. "Can the church own property? The restitution of church property raises stormy reactions not only in political waters. However, they are often heard in the discussion of inaccuracies and misinterpretations," the historian says at the beginning of his article. "Yes, it is a return before Josef II. While making excuses for the Communists, Lenka Procházková bitterly wrote about the restitution of the Catholic Church's property. It happened in the discussion on news server aktualne.cz where one reader asked whether the restitution of church property would disturb the reform of Josef II. He was referring to the widespread view that since the enlightened monarchy, the Catholic Church is not the owner of the property but only a user's right. Asking about something like this Procházková is a little pointless, because she herself has extended this view to the public. The myth was born in the heat of the political struggle for the restitution of 2011 and 2012 and has enriched our history with the claim that this legal argument was justified by the Josephian interference of the monasteries. Procházková and other opponents of restitution then flexibly extend this principle to church property in general. In 1949, therefore, the Communists did not take her property, but only the right to use the property, and so there is nothing to return in the present restitutions. But the property that remained to the church for use, real estate, and land did not belong to it anymore, it was only in the administration. The salaries of the clergy were paid by the state from the fund, which arose after the sale of some of the abolished monasteries and other properties, claims Lenka Procházková in the article Church is not entitled to restitution in the literary newspaper on 11 November 2011. He repeatedly assures the public that church property is state property, in state quotes since the time of Josef II, and reminded it even after filing criminal charges against Prime Minister Nečas in January 2012. However, the writer of Procházkův is not a guide to this revisionist view. It was brought to the current discussion by lawyers Vladimír Kindl and Vladimír Mikule in a controversial report by Charles University, from which the Rector and the Scientific Council were disavowed. In the opinion, they refer to the First Republic lawyer Antonín Hobza, who allegedly supported this view in his report of 1919 and in his books on church law. I presend Hobza never proved anything like this. However, the Procházková-through myth about the absence of church ownership has made it very popular, mainly thanks to the disproportionary attention given to it by the media, including public television. Soon, even politicians grabbed their minds. At first it was the anti-government movement Holešovská call and the Movement for Direct Democracy, later Paroubkův Lev 21 and finally also Public Affairs and ČSSD. The politicians of these parties have brought the argument to Parliament. In addition, myth was seized by Karol Hrádela, who says that the state is threatening to sue if the law is passed. To support his opinion, he himself wrote an opinion stating that the enlightened ruler had introduced into Josefín State Law provisions that church goods had not ceased to be state goods. The Catholic Church is avoiding the evaluation of Josephine's reforms, so the problem has not yet been clarified. However, Brno's lawyer, Petr Jäger, refutes the Yosephian argument by claiming that the only legal standard is the situation that existed after February 25, 1948, and older historical developments are of no concern to us. The common concept of ownership was supposedly established by the Civil Code in 1811 and the terms of the period of Josefín are therefore irrelevant. When Hobza later spoke of church property as a special kind of public property, he used a legal category that did not exist in the 19th century. There was only one form of ownership that was not divided into public and private. However, history lovers may be interested in this problem, so I tried to find out what Josef II's legal argument was. actually. Were the Yosephian reforms really justified by the argument that church property is state property and that the church has only used it?" - And now I'm referring, because I have four other pages, the article that I mentioned here, where it's printed, and which is discussing all these misrepresentations and misinterpretations, as I said in the introduction. [[15.50 hours]] And I'm going to skip to a follow-up issue that actually came out of the media a few weeks ago during the recent discussion. She jumped out of the server Aktuálně and simply cannot be kept silent to her, especially from the point of view of a historian, she simply cannot be kept silent to her. The server Currently quoted, referred to the President of the KSČM and literally the quote was: "The Catholic Church was never the national Church of the Czech Republic. They have always opposed the interests of the Czech nation. Whether it was in the time of the White Mountains, let it be during World War I, but even during World War II, the church opposed the Czech nation." End of quote. I didn't hear it with my own ears, but that's how the source, the server, says it. And, of course, the President of the KSČM can also comment on this. As far as this concept is concerned, I am sorry that there are historical questions in the Chamber of Deputies where and often there is no shortage of contributions that are dilettant, unsubstantiated and which are at least misleading. We have already heard here from Communist expo Semelová various in quotation marks of the defense and communist interpretation of the processes of the 1950s including Milada Horáková and so on. And so it is now in connection with the Church and the church restitutions. To that end, I would like to say that the Catholic Church can hardly be a national church when its mission is to be a universal church, which results from its very name. Which I understand is hard to distinguish for a person who may be far from church history, or it's just not his everyday subject. But every other quoted sentence is also senseless, unfair, and unfounded. And I think it would sometimes be worth doing separate seminars on these topics. There are all kinds of seminars here. So calmly to the time of the white mountain, to the 19th century, to the already mentioned josefinism and then to the key 20th century. Once again, I could introduce the sine ira et studio, without resentment and affection, really colleagues of remarkable historians and historians, such as Professor Čornejová, who has devoted herself to the research order of the Jesuits for a very long time. She wrote a number of books and publications about it, including foreign ones. And if I could quote a very balanced assessment here again, including those personalities that sometimes put on such a dog or bear head as the various representatives of the White Mountain Recatholization, and where she points out that they were also excellent Czech patriots. We are often begging for the lack of patriotism today, and it is certainly also because we are very little emphasis on who is such a top representative of patriotism and who, on the contrary, should learn a lot in all schools and pay great attention to it. It is the Jesuit of Bohuslav Balbín and his work, especially his famous defence of the Czech language. As far as the Church's attitude towards the Czech nation is concerned during World War II, I really consider this expression, if it was authentic, almost scandalous. A number of works written by contemporary historians have already been created about the valor and suffering of church leaders. It's not that somebody is trying or just unilaterally, it's historians who are careful about the period. And there really are many of these publications. And it's about both our church leaders and our foreign leaders. I think you all know the name of Maxmilián Kolbe or the Rev Unzeitig called the anděl of Dachau and others. Just to cover the whole line for everyone. And for this Czech environment, I chose as a shining example the personality of Monsignor Bohumil Stašek, a canon in Vyšehrad, who was also a Member and also the Chairman of ČSL in Bohemia. When Sudety was taken in October 1938, the church in Rokycany was screaming: "What will the task be for us Czech priests in our national misfortune and in difficult times that may not be God's waiting for us? We will be prophets of the Czech nation. They won't shut us up! Let's go to the pulpit and the dungeons!" On Staškův's initiative, in the administrative commission of the city of Prague, it was decided to deposit from Litoměřice the transferred remains of Karel Hynek Mácha to Vyšehrad, where he gave a sermon over the coffin of the poet. Staškův's activity culminated in his fearless patriotic sermon at the famous pilgrimage near svatý Vavřineček near Domažlic on August 13, 1939. This pilgrimage is estimated to have been attended by 120,000 pilgrims. So this year we will have a great anniversary of this famous and patriotic pilgrimage. To this last massive national... [[Strong noise in the hall. Some Members are discussing in the crowds.]] I'm sorry everyone's hiding their patriotism here, but apparently somebody doesn't even care. That's in such a moving time for the Czech nation, so I don't know -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u11	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I think it would be appropriate for those who discuss other issues to discuss them in the lobby and the speaker who was given the floor to give his speech in a dignified environment...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u12	It's all about the respect -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u13	Just a moment, Mr. Ambassador. I'll give you my word right now. I don't want to name it, but I'd like you guys to disband and settle in your seats. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u14	Thank you. I'm just finishing up. And I really think that this would deserve attention precisely because we often remember these emotional events of time and suffering here, many of us are involved in memorial acts, and now it surprises me that someone really has something else to do at such an important meeting. So here, this last massive national and religious demonstration has already been supervised by the confidentists deployed by the Klatovy Gestapo. Stašek led an oath to the assembly of the people of his country. I quote: "If we never leave her, we will not betray until the last heartbeat we will love." Although he knew that he could save himself by fleeing abroad, he remained convinced that "some of the leaders were to be prepared for sacrifice and to be the people for whom a bitter cup awaited, at least an example in suffering. " Stašek was arrested at the Czechoslovak stock printer he built on September 1, 1939. After being imprisoned in Pankrác, he was taken to a concentration camp in Oranienburg. After a year's imprisonment, he went to Dachau, where he lost his right eye and was imprisoned until the liberation of the camp by the U.S. Army. The words of later executed H Frank were almost fulfilled - I quote: "If he lives, Stašek will not leave the concentration camp. " Bohumil Stašek was a noble patriot who followed the legacy of Balbín, Palacký and Rieger. A brave man, a priest, and a politician did not remain an isolated shining example of love for the homeland and nation in difficult times. The words K H Frank, who complained to Cardinal Kašpar about the activities of Czech priests, testify again. I quote: "If it continued, this activity would have to be punished. " In this sense, he asked the Czech priest to admonish, adding: "Especially the canon Stašek. " The sermon at Vavřinečka, when we will commemorate the anniversary in August, was published by the press, can be found in antiquarians or libraries, and there is a whole book that describes this outstanding personality and other personalities. It's called When they crossed the Czech nation. I suggest you study. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u15	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol. Now with priority rights, Mr. and President of the Jan Farský Club. Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, especially you, who, even after all these speeches, are still considering voting for the taxation of compensation to the churches, as approved, I am turning to you. I will not turn to you as a member of any church, I am not a member of the church. I address you primarily as a lawyer and as someone who respects the rule of law, and the position I will give you here is also the opinion of the mayor's and independent member's club. As has already been said in the media, if this is approved today, we will turn to the Constitutional Court because we believe that there are several points for which the Constitutional Court is to assess it. First of all, it's a false retroactivity. The moment you reverse the contracts that have been concluded, you're making a change to what legitimate expectations are based on, and you're simply changing something to be respected. Already the ancient Roman principle of pacta sunt servanda is disrupted by this. And that is one of the reasons for which we will propose to the Constitutional Court that if this law is passed, so as to abolish it. The law has already been judged by the Constitutional Court once, the law I now think about compensation, the property settlement with the churches, and the Constitutional Court has stated that it is okay that it is in accordance with constitutional order. We will also certainly argue that, from a legal point of view, this is not a tax, although it is called that, but a sanction. Why isn't it taxation? Because this is not primarily about increasing the state's income, but also about officially arguing for a reduction in the state's spending. Completely out of this proposal, which some of you are about to approve today, has fallen out. Because part of the settlement of the relationship with the churches was that the churches would be separated from the state. The State has long provided contributions to the wages of church employees, and it will not do so after the end of the period and after the repayment of the debt it has to the churches. Does this mean that if you want to tax the refunds, the debt payments, it means that you will also reduce or slow down the fall of the compensation in terms of those replacing the separation? The authors of this proposal have completely forgotten that. I mentioned it, but now explicitly. Here you can tax income. But repayment of debt, which in this case is the repayment of debt that the state gives to the churches, so the repayment of debt is non-taxed. I address you in this way to ask you to consider your vote that you attach to this, because this is really about the fundamental principles of the rule of law, to maintain the expectation of what is leaving this House and what comes from the treaties. The genesis of church restitution is quite long. It was not so that they were approved because that was when the House decided that it wanted to send billions to the churches. It was so that it was called upon several times by the Constitutional Court. And if the House didn't respond, thousands and tens of thousands would appear, perhaps hundreds of thousands of lawsuits that would naturally land on courts, and the courts would be overwhelmed by the handling of restitution claims and the justice of the citizens of the Czech Republic would go away. The state would have been paying for the operation of the judicial apparatus all this time, of course representing its own in that case, and the whole result would have been far more expensive than when there was a settlement agreement. To talk about the fact that when I take someone's property, I devalue the property very badly, damage it, and after twenty, twenty, twenty years after the totalitarianism that has committed this, I finally get to replace it, so I think about it, and I start taxing it, I find it immoral and undignified. Politically, I understand that this is a payment for the preservation of this government. But it's a very, very expensive payment. And history shows that the Communist Party will not be satisfied with little. That's not the final payment you're paying for being in power. They come next, and others can get even worse and even more painful. Is it worth it? Wouldn't it really be worth honoring the principles of the rule of law, honoring the passed laws, the concluded treaties, and maintaining dignity, and not saying, "Let the Constitutional Court decide for us?" We're going to pay back, and then he's going to cancel the Constitutional Court, which is actually going to make us clean, because the law isn't going to apply. That is very alibiistic, and I think that is no way for the Chamber of Deputies to decide. It is a law that is important from this point of view, because it means to the Czech Republic whether we can continue to talk about being a legal state or becoming a state where the one who has the power in his hands decides, regardless of the law and the laws that apply in the country. I ask you, please consider once again the support if you want to enter into these compromises that are cutting you off, to any one who raises a hand for this bill, which takes away pieces of freedom and restricts your space in which you can move as Members in other decisions. I don't think it's worth it and that you could show that you're not just the hostages of the Communist Party, but that you're making decisions based on your conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u17	I thank my colleague Farský. Before we continue with Leo Luzar's performance, I'll read some more apologies. Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes from 15.30 pm to the end of the day and is also excused by the President of the Chamber of Deputies from 15.30 to 18 pm for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. A colleague of Bělobrádek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u18	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, wrote the year 2012 and all this year, the church restitutions were intersecting like the red thread of the House. It was decided in November 2012. I do not want to go back to that history, but in that year all the arguments that were often repeated today have often been relit. But the arguments were made there, and mostly the law passed, which, and let's face it, all of us, divided society. The company was divided into supporters and opponents. Everyone remained in their positions and kept repeating their arguments. Seven years passed, and after seven years, the split in that company couldn't be settled. The split is constantly even deepened. Paradoxically deepened by the winners of this law who raise their claims, and these claims are mediated in the courts, and they sue the municipalities and sue the owners and try to expand the property that was assigned to the churches by this House in 2012, in my opinion beyond what was then determined in 2012. So we are repeating the excursion as such today because there is simply a social demand in society for how to cope with this historic stage with the present. It has been mentioned many times that the Communists, the Communist Party, the Communists get it - I would like to point out that the KSČM has only stood up for the opinion of those citizens who did not like the result of 2012 and whose conviction after nine years remained the same in that view: it is not okay. [[16.10 hours]] We have a bill before us that the Senate has rejected, it is the law on property settlement with churches, in public terms, the taxation of the remaining financial compensations. The argument that is most common here is: it's unconstitutional. This may be the decision of the Constitutional Court, but let's give it a chance for the Constitutional Court to decide. Because this is where I heard that it was going to end up. We're ready, we're gonna put it in, we're gonna believe it. So let's just vote, revote the Senate's opinion, and let's wait for the Constitutional Court, and hopefully the Constitutional Court's decision will be such and the justification is so built that the society that is divided in this matter today will be able to have a chance to unite and say: Well, we have lost. We won, but a fair trial ruled, assessed the situation, and determined the winner. In this situation, we are at our heels right now, and if this law, as they say, ends under the table, this company will be back here in a moment and it will show that something has not been historically solved. That's why I say and appeal again to all of you, let's vote. Let us leave this decision on the will of this House and, in the case of those who are dissatisfied with this will, let them turn to the Constitutional Court and seek arguments through this institution so that citizens in this Republic can actually say yes, it has been decided rightly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u19	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote from two articles by the authors of Stanislav Přibyl and also by Jan Graubner. The first article states that Section 15 of the Act deals with financial compensation. And it's a replacement for property that wasn't issued. Thus, the restitution part of the property compensation only envisaged the recovery of such assets, which was owned by the so-called "ownership'. obliged persons, i.e. State Land Office, Forests of the Czech Republic, organizational units of the state, e.g. ministries, state contribution organisations, e.g. National museum, state fund, state enterprise or other state organization. The property owned by the regions, municipalities or private persons was not returned and the financial compensation was fixed instead. Here's a personal experience. For example, a monastery in Opočna was released through the blocking section to say that the county could not issue this property because it had already been transferred to the county and the regions were not obliged persons, and offered if the order did not want to buy it from them. He didn't really want to buy it from them. Property in unclear cases, or in cases where the State unlawfully transferred the property of the church to a third party, which is actually also the case, was held by the courts. In many cases, church entities unilaterally decided not to conduct litigation or to withdraw lawsuits for good relations. Again, the example from my region is when the D 11 motorway is being built and there are plots that are controversial, so there was an agreement between the Bishopship and the ŘSD, if I am not mistaken, and there was actually an agreement made that it would not have a suspensive effect and that the decision of the court would not actually delay the continuation of the construction. The financial compensation was established on the basis of an estimate of the price of the assets not issued and the procedure for calculating the work of the expert group was audited, among other things, by the significant international company Ernst and Young. So universities, but also such audit expert workplaces, all of which, of course, were judged. That means they're not a housenumer, they're a housenumer whose real background, the relevant data we're from those who say it was overpriced, they've never seen it, and we haven't really seen what could be taken seriously. The amount of financial compensation belonging to individual churches is expressly stated in the law. If there's been talk about the bill of reckoning, then I can't imagine how hundreds of thousands would be, maybe millions of individual land were actually listed. This would probably be a truck of paper, and it would probably be hard to solve from this point of view. But maybe that's the point. Furthermore, let me say that there is also an inflation clause to ensure that churches and religious societies receive money worth 2013, when the law began to apply. The law explicitly states that the financial compensation is not subject to tax, it is quite clear, the fee or other similar cash transactions. Paragraph 16 of the Act obliges the State and the churches to conclude a contract containing the amount of financial compensation and the arrangement that this compensation will be paid in the form of 30 annual instalments, that it will be increased by inflation and that the State will pay a contribution to support the activities of the churches after the first 17 years of application of the Act. Plus an evaluation of a gloss like that. Of course, the land at that time was worth a little bit different than they are today. I can tell you that even in the vicinity of Náchod agricultural land, permanent grassland, which is not introduced in the zoning plan as intended for development, so offers are usually around CZK 100 per metre. So these things really need to be realized, too. This Treaty shall apply to the property compensation law as amended by the conclusion of the contract. The contract explicitly states that in the case of payment of financial compensation, the Czech Republic has the position of debtor and church of creditor. It is therefore possible to tax so-called. Church restitution? Of course, they are not restitutions in the true sense of the word. That's not even the name of the law. But so be it. Legally, it's basically nonsense. Although the law can be amended, its provisions are covered by contracts between the Czech Republic as debtors and churches and religious societies as creditors. The contracts explicitly state that their purpose is governed by the law at the date of signature of the contract. And on that day, it is stated in the law that neither the financial compensation nor the contribution to the support of churches and religious societies is subject to taxation nor to any other monetary performance. It must be said that if the tax base, the tax-free compensation here, is questioned, we can talk about the abuse of the taxation institute for power purposes. In the case of financial compensation, this is not a normal income but a compensation for damage caused. She never taxes or charges things out of logic. It's as if a thief is doomed to damages, and I, as a victim, should pay a tax for that compensation. That's absurd, that's ridiculous. The financial compensation is just another form of compensation other than the simple return of the stolen one. This is really about removing some injustices and securing the economic autonomy of churches and religious societies into the future, i.e. the total separation of churches and religious societies from the state. Let us remember that churches and religious societies are important employers, and the vast majority of the proceeds of property go to cover the personnel costs of church employees. Moreover, tax would be most affected by small churches that are more existently dependent on financial compensation. As has been done here, it would most likely affect the Federation of Jewish Communities. I would like to point out that churches and religious societies, in addition to setting up educational institutions, i.e. schools, are also setting up the largest non-state operator and social service provider, e.g. Charity of the Czech Republic, but I could mention others, for example. ADRA or Evangelical - and now I've dropped it - the diaconium. In addition to the economic aspect, there is also an ethical or moral aspect, namely the issue of justice. If churches and their members or representatives are still put into the role of scapegoats or criminals who are unjustly enriching themselves, that is simply unacceptable. [[16.20 hours]] Finally, there is a legal aspect. And I believe that the whole question should not be political or religious, but purely legal. In a way, justice should be a sacred system with which to invoke justice. Instead, we are witnessing constant attacks on legal, constitutional principles as well. If we get used to this elasticity of the legal environment, we will soon be completely out of the way of calling for justice and protecting our own dignity, and hence the framework of democracy and the rule of law. I would like to add that there really is a big difference between something legal and something legitimate. [[It's always busy in the hall.]] I'll take the liberty of going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u21	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the House for peace. Just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please let my colleague Bělobrádek, who has been given the floor, finish his performance. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would return to the subject that was also raised here, and that is how the church acquired property. It is often said that voters who do not like churches are claimed to have stolen or taken property from non-Catholics in the White Mountain, so it is good to remember how it really was. The establishment of a bishopship or parishes was subject to financial provision for their operation. For example, the parish should have had enough fields to feed on it - the so-called parishioner's eyebrows. Similarly, the church often owned a field from which the proceeds were repaired. When someone built the chapel and wanted to dedicate it to the church, he had to give a piece of the field to it. The chapel had legal personality, it belonged to itself. And she also owned the land from which the proceeds consisted of repairs. The land belonged to the so-called tribal fortune and could not be stolen until the chapel stood. Many communities like to celebrate the anniversary of the oldest written mention of the village. Maybe it's based on a list of church property. For example, Olomouc Bishop Zdík named 82 entire villages in 1131 and 261 plows that belong to the bishop's church. When he succeeded, it was possible to buy more assets. Some monasteries received land from rulers with the task of farming the forest or drying the swamp and helping society not only in the field of spiritual, educational, educational, social, but also cultural. In the 14th century almost a third of the cultivated land in Bohemia belonged to the church. During the Hussite wars and during the Reformation, she lost a number of land. She only got some back later. Of course, the so-called colonization was largely in this way. Many monasteries were the civilization and colonization factor. Most of the time, childless donors left their parish fields after death, with the parishioner's duty to serve Holy Mass each year, sometimes more Masses under the donation agreement. Each such legal person was led by a vicar of separate accounts, similar to foundations or funds. Their interference by merging with the parishes occurred only in the late 1990s from the decision of the Ministry of Culture. After preventing church property by the state in 1948, the church did not benefit from this property. Therefore, she did not have to fulfill the obligations of gifts. Some of the assets returned in restitution, some of them being reimbursed for financial compensation. Because of their benefits, the church revived the duty of prayer for deceased donors. But since it is no longer possible to trace the individual contracts, the Czech and Moravian bishops turned to the Holy See to ask for a solution. During the following liturgical year, the Holy See stated that every priest leading the parish had a duty to celebrate ten Masses for the dead donors. If he manages more parishes, then this obligation shall be counted once. Some parishes did not have their fields, they were secured by so-called patronages. It is a system where the owner of the estate contracted to deliver to the farm a certain amount of food from his farmhouse every year, sometimes wood for heating, sometimes even beer when he had a brewery. He could have talked to the vicar for that. The patron was also obliged to contribute to the repairs of the church. Since Marie Terezie, every parish had to have a general school and run a register. Josef II. He wanted to intensify the public administration, in the quotes of the public administration, and decided to establish many parishes so that the number of inhabitants would not reach the church more than one hour on foot. But the new parish had nothing to pay for. Therefore, he abolished many monasteries that did not have schools and hospitals, and their property entrusted to a religious fund, later to the Religious Matrix. It had rights and obligations of patrons in relation to the new parishes - as well as some new bishopships. A canon chapter was established at the cathedral with the approval of the Pope, but for every canon there had to be a security, such as a farmhouse in the country or a house in the city. This canon then performed various higher functions on the bishopship - general vicar, chancellor and so on - but for this work he was not paid, he lived on canonical income. He often had a priest assigned, a vicar he fed. He could represent him in daily joint prayers in the Cathedral and perform duties of lower officials at the Bishopship. At times, canonists or canonists of young priests from noble families, to whom canonist income served as a scholarship to study abroad, became canonists. Today they provide scholarships to foundation funds. In some times, the number of canon trees rose, for example, by giving the capital of the estate, with the approval of both the king and the Pope, to secure another canonical place, for example, for his son, but the canonary place was not to be abolished after his death without the permission of the Pope. A fundamental change in funding associated with the emergence of communism was built on patronage law. The state took all the property and undertook to pay for the wages of the priests and all the operation of the church - even if it did so, many churches fell. For this he claimed to decide on the appointment of priests. Who received the so-called State's approval for a specific place was paid by the State and had the stamp of the employer, the District National Committee, on his ID card. He wasn't allowed to help his neighbor without the consent of the state. Any priestly activity without state approval was criminal, sometimes even a prison. In 1990, state oversight of churches was abolished by law. Only the most necessary buildings were returned, the priests continued to be paid by the state, but no longer by the ONV, but through the Bishopship. The new church law enabled the easy registration of many new religious societies, which, after ten years, were to obtain the right to be paid by the state. Because he was afraid of this, he chose a cheaper path for himself. Before he had to pay for new religious societies, he decided to return the property and end up with funding. Church restitution is directly linked to the end of church funding - although gradual. Returned assets are often in very bad shape, and from the first proceeds and financial compensations they must be put into such a state that from the moment the state subsidies on salaries end, the church can finance its operation from their revenues. The critics are talking about getting rich in the church or calling for the taxation of the church's compensation. However, it was booked at the very beginning, and the current gradual payment is merely a repayment of the state's debt to the churches. Churches and religious societies didn't get rich, but more concern and responsibility. We live modestly and have to count on the generosity of the believers. The greatest economic burden in the Catholic Church is the maintenance of churches for which subsidies are requested. These are not eligible, as are the national cultural monuments. Especially city churches are often a magnet of tourism, on which the entire company makes money. Now let me add this text to the author Jiří Uhlíř. It should be recalled that most church property has since the Middle Ages been acquired precisely from gifts, gifts, references, and chandeliers, where it is a respiracy, that is, usually, a legacy - sometimes before death - in favour of temples and monasteries, church institutes such as church schools, hospitals, workhouses and orphanages. The church legally and regularly acquired property from gifts, money, but also land, fields, bow and forests, effectively used sacral monuments such as churches and chapels and their furniture to further improve and repair. She also used property to maintain church administration and charity purposes, for Christianity is based on love for neighbor, which is still true today. [[16.30 hours]] For centuries, the gifts of a well - acquired church estate were seized after 1948. It is logical, therefore, that it is right and fair that it should finally be returned to the churches and religious societies persecuted for Nazism and socialism, as it was without a problem returned to the Czech nobility during the 1990s. The Czech public did not protest against this. However, a large part of the Czech public rejects the right to fair settlement of property injustices. Albert Einstein has already expressed the idea: Morality is more than intellect. All the great empires have fallen apart and vanished. Let's see what happens now. Let me make one more comment, one specific thing. In Náchod is called. Student church. It was originally confiscated, historically still under Austria-Hungary. One time there was even a gunpowder store. However, a wealthy cityman bought it out and donated it back. This, too, is the story of the acquisition of property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u23	I thank Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. I have two priority rights here. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek and Mr. Vít Rakušan. And a proper application from Marian Jurečka. I'm asking my colleague Kalousek if he wants to take advantage of his priority right now. Okay, in that case, a colleague of Rakušan with priority rights, then a colleague of Jurečka, and finally a Member of Parliament, Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a long historical field trip ahead of me and I'm going to try to make a very short remark. We have had the words here, by your means, Mr President, of Mr Luzar, that there is a divided society and that we are perhaps trying to do something today to make sure that society is not divided. I certainly wouldn't see the situation that way. The society is certainly divided over this problem, but I do not think that we are doing anything by this day to mitigate the said division of society in any way. On the contrary, what we are really doing is that the already approved legal situation once negotiated by the Parliament of the Czech Republic simply because it was conditional on the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia to support the existence of this government, we are simply returning here to our Parliament. It does not surprise me, of course, because her opinion on this subject is clear, it is quite a strong and logical political move that she has made, and I do not intend to evaluate it in any way other than that it is simply the successor organization of the party that once stole the property. And, of course, she didn't just steal it from the churches, but she stole it from many others, and now she's trying to reverse that once approved situation in Parliament. But it's her right, it's politics. I am more surprised by this, for example, with the Social Democrats, where I have seen in the Senate that the view of legislators, where, of course, senators belong, is not so united with the Social Democrats. There are senators like Mr Dienstbier and Mr Antl who express themselves in this respect that the legal regulation, as presented by the Chamber of Deputies, is simply not in order from the perspective of the legislature, and that we should, as the legislature, by which the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate are, submit standards for which, if possible, we have the assurance of internal conviction that we are presenting a standard that is in order from a constitutional point of view. If we don't do that, we're committing an alibis. The alibi is, well, we're gonna make a decision here, and if it happens to be wrong, then there's this Constitutional Court that will discuss it later. I don't think that's a responsible legislative approach, it's kind of playing with what we approve here and a little bit of our own irresponsibleness. But, of course, as Mr Luzar said through Mr President, we will certainly put this to the Constitutional Court as an incentive, our senators together with a number of other senators are ready for this, and the text of this is at such a stage that the initiative will follow immediately after the Chamber of Deputies, if any, would revote its proposal today and push further. We are in a legal environment where we are clearly touching some legitimate expectation that was based on the original approved regulation. That in itself is not very normal in the rule of law. And we are also moving in such an environment, where here in the House from different people I hear for me a little surprisingly when it suits them, about the Jewish-Christian traditions of our civilization, whose bearers of logically various churches are still in society. And without being a practicing Christian myself, I smile a little bitterly at the fact that there is actually a primarily holy war on the Catholic Church. But if we look at this proposal in detail, the Catholic Church will certainly not be the one that will be primarily affected by this proposal. They will be smaller church organizations, and for them, of course, it can also mean a fatal end to the game. This is simply a paradox that we feel here, and I think that every legislator himself has to deal with his conscience as to whether to vote for a proposal that is a legislative pasquila, and to realize that we are not really having this debate at the moment about whether those religious restitutions were too high were too low and that we are somehow correcting it. The debate is elsewhere. We are talking about whether this proposal, as it is put forward, is at all legislatively in order and whether we are already saying in advance that for us as legislators, because otherwise we do not agree, the Constitutional Court must decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u25	I thank Mr Vít the Rakušan. Before I give the floor to Mr Marian Jurečka, I was asked to remove the mistake of the morning in order to repeat the apology of the members of the government. Since 16.15 Deputy Prime Minister Richard Brabec, for the whole day Jan Kněžínek for work reasons, Marta Nováková due to foreign travel, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Dan Ťok due to foreign travel, Miroslav Toman for work reasons. Mr Dvořák also apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u26	Hello, Mr President, two members of the government, Mr Senator, colleagues. Let me also perform in third reading, respectively. in the Senate return vote, on this point that we have before us. It is a famous saying concerning the Communist Party, which says: What a word, the lie, what an act, the crime. And I think that this is true until today, and so is the case with this proposal, which we have before us before the vote again today. Because when we look at the explanatory memorandum, I do not know how many honourable Members have actually read the explanatory memorandum, the explanatory memorandum states that this proposed bill envisages taxation of the financial compensation as the only possible step leading to a financial compensation being proportionate in its end. However, there is no evidence of proportionality in the explanatory memorandum. It was promised here by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, an analysis which was supposed to say how much the compensation was disproportionate. The secretary of finance even said they had that analysis at the Treasury Department. When the Members started asking for it legitimately, the analysis suddenly turned out not to be after 14 days. In a situation where part of the legislators is making a proposal here, where they so often cling to the word proportionality, but nowhere does this government coalition or the Communist plaintiffs take the job to prove the argumentative language of the numbers that the inadequacy is, and so whether that proposed taxation of 19 percent corresponds to that said inadequacy. [[16.40 hours]] It is also interesting to continue reading the explanatory statement from the Communist Members' pen. There is always the mandatory part that we fill out as legislators when we submit our proposals, and there is compliance with constitutional order and international treaties under Article 10 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The petitioner writes here: The proposed bill does not conflict with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic nor does it contradict the international agreements, which the Czech Republic is bound by, line up a clear contradiction between the two legal standards governing the subject matter of the tax. Also in compliance with European Union law, the petitioners again write that this proposal is not contrary to European Union rules. And the assessment of other impacts - here the petitioners state: The proposed bill does not interfere with the business environment. It doesn't bring any environmental impact, protection... and so on. How can a serious legislator say that this proposal is in line with constitutional order? How can it say that this proposal does not interfere with the business environment? After all, churches and religious societies, to which this immoral additional taxation of what has been stolen and could not be recovered, are often also business entities in many areas of business. It can be seen that there is a really explanatory report on the justification of the amendment to this law that is completely flagrantly sloppy and that the legislators who submitted it did not look at it, and the government that supported it, and the government coalition that supports it, and the Members who voted for it, did not look at it, otherwise they simply could not vote in favour of it. I would like to mention and quote some parts of the expert opinion of the Faculty of Law of Masaryk University from Brno, where this expert opinion, which is annexed to our House press, says: It is based on the fact that the property settlement law recognised the removal of the original property to the churches as property injustice and that the property was originally owned by the churches. The compensation law did not accept the interpretation that church property was of a particular nature and that the State had certain rights to that property, particularly in relation to the Catholic Church as the original State Church, when the State had rights to that property based mainly on the original patronage rights. The compensation law is a valid part of the rule of law and must be respected, its constitutionality has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. The State does not have a constitutional obligation to restitution of property seized during the Communist regime. However, if the restitution laws are adopted, property rights will arise which the State cannot unilaterally disturb or reduce, as there will be legitimate property expectations of beneficiaries with constitutional protection. The compensation agreements between the State and the churches are in the nature of a private contract identical to those for the settlement of mutual rights and obligations. The state proceeded to natural and financial restitution and the churches gave up their property claims. The compensation law itself makes contracts with churches subject to the regime of the Civil Code, unless it provides otherwise. Church restitution is an important political issue. As my colleague Luzar here spoke - I will allow myself a small branch - he spoke of the division of society. But I do not remember that in 2005, 2006, 2008, when the question of religious restitution was addressed here, society was divided on this subject. Even a year and a half ago, when public opinion polls were on the subject, only 20 percent of the company dealt with the subject. After the four-year reign of Bohuslav Sobotka, the company considered this topic closed. But they were part of the political debate after the adoption of the Equalisation Act, when some political parties sought to abolish it through the Constitutional Court or to change it. Political debates also came to life with the fact that the churches had brought actions to determine the state's ownership of property held by the regions and municipalities so that the property would fall into a natural restitution. In the case of regions, these proposals have been withdrawn and, in the case of municipalities, continued. However, this is not a breach of the contract itself, because the determination of state ownership is decided by the court as a state authority, not by a church body, and it is bound by the law in force in its proceedings. If the court states that the property belongs to the state and therefore is not subject to physical restitution, it was held by the municipality, whether we like it or not, unjustly, which cannot be burdened by the church. Some of the church's actions in connection with restitutions are also in question, for example, when the Abbey in Old Brno lost its own administration and was seized by the province of Augustinians in Prague, which initially did not show interest in the Abbey until it was entitled to the restitution of property. These circumstances are a source of political debate, but not a source of legal solutions to the already established claims of the churches under the Equalisation Act. It is a fundamental function of the State to collect taxes on its expenditure. He has sovereignty in tax matters and can change the composition and amount of taxes over time. The nature of such a procedure has been demonstrated in the event of a change in the taxation of solar energy. This was the case where the State was not directly a producer of solar energy, so it did not enter into private contracts already concluded and taxation was justified by substantial changes in the electricity market and a substantial change in the cost of setting up solar power plants. These reasons were recognised as legitimate for tax changes. However, taxes cannot be misused and, for example, can not lead to de facto expropriation. The State may prefer certain things in the field of taxation or put certain things at an economic disadvantage in the form of taxes, but taxes cannot be used in an unconstitutional manner to ban certain activities or liquidation of assets, such as 100% or even higher tax rates. Therefore, for example, the Constitutional Court did not recognise the introduction of a 50 per cent tax on State aid for construction savings in 2010 which it assessed by using the State tax legislation to effectively reduce State aid when the general income tax rate was 15 per cent. The Constitutional Court then stated: the legal conclusion that the tax in question should be considered not as a tax but as a change of legal entitlement in the framework of the constitutional review is reflected in the constitutional criteria for its assessment. If certain constitutional principles and fundamental rights serve to protect an individual from public intervention, the degree of protection cannot be lower in one of the two comparable cases only because the legislature used different markings for the same regulation. The legitimisation of extraordinary tax changes is an emergency, such as the imminent collapse of the state can lead to major tax changes. If these changes are general and affect all taxpayers, the taxation of a particular narrow group of churches will also be legitimate. However, if a significant tax change is accepted in order to oppose a new political representation with the original decision of the previous democratic representation and aims at a de facto reduction of the state's contractual obligations, this is an illegitimate procedure. The state is in a double position. First of all, it acts as a senior body which levys and collects taxes and is usually the beneficiary of them, but also participates as a legal person in activities that are subject to taxes. In doing so, it is right that the State should not abuse its supreme position in private relations. This dual status of the state is also reflected in the settlement of relations with churches, where the state in the supreme position as legislator has adopted a law offering churches a kind of settlement and subsequently the state as legal entity has concluded contracts with churches where contracting entities are equal if the church wanted to conclude such a contract. Its position as creator of tax laws is therefore not dependent on the impact of these laws on its obligation to comply under the settlement agreements with the churches. The taxation of the financial compensation is due to the fact that the new representation of the State is not satisfied with the original decision of the Government and Parliament in the settlement with the churches in 2012 and the amount paid to it seems disproportionately high, which results from the general part of the explanatory memorandum of the draft law. This also follows from the Government's and the Ministry of Finance's consent to the draft law under consideration. I would just like to add that, for example, the opinion of the Ministry of Culture on this matter was negative. [[16.50 hours]] Both the designers and the government admit that the motivation for the adoption of the law is a substantive disagreement with the original amount of financial compensation. This replacement is taken as a lump sum. There may be differing views in terms of materiality on its size. The flat-rate compensation in itself of the nature of the case involves a certain degree of uncertainty in determining when the church property for which the financial compensation is paid is a significant quantity. These are often land that was previously agricultural land, but now they are in a pawnable territory and have the character of building land. From a legal point of view, it is crucial that the State has agreed to the flat-rate amount by law as well as in the settlement agreements with the churches. The Church is entitled to property even if it is not yet fully due, and they have a legitimate expectation that, at the time of maturity, the amounts will gradually be paid to them at the agreed amount. The change in the political composition of Parliament and government is not a legitimate constitutionally acceptable reason for changing the property claims of persons, including the churches towards the state. The plaintiffs themselves and the government acknowledge that the real reason for taxation is not changes in the tax policy of the State, but a substantive political disagreement with the amount of flat-rate financial compensation. Since the government cannot achieve a change in the contract without the consent of the churches, the high-ranking tax regime is used as a way to achieve a factual change in the amount of the cash compensation. Such motivation of the State for tax treatment, i.e. as an instrument of private advantages in the form of tax policy, is constitutionally illegitimate. By the conclusion of the compensation agreements with the State, a legal claim for a financial compensation of a certain amount was created and, if the State had paid it immediately, it would not have been taxed. The churches were therefore in legitimate expectation that the same tax conditions would apply throughout the repayment period of the financial compensation. Both the government and Parliament can change their will over time. However, if, on the basis of the government's original decision, private contracts were established, the new government cannot unilaterally abolish or amend them. It is therefore unacceptable to achieve this objective by means of the supreme influence of the State within its jurisdiction of the law-maker, including tax law. The content of the settlement with the churches consists of natural restitution, financial compensation, interest on financial compensation and a declining contribution from the State. The draft law concerns the taxation of the financial compensation, including its remuneration. Restitution of property is not an income but a restoration of the original property. In the case of physical restitution, it is a return. In the case of financial restitution, it is about money replacement. If the case was taken unlawfully by the State, which the State recognised by the compensation law, it is contrary to the principle of the rule of law of the State to tax the return of such property. Even in the case of other restitutions such as judicial rehabilitation, out-of-court rehabilitation, agricultural and other restitution, or other return of illegally removed property, such as the return of stolen property, the restitution of property is not taxed. The financial compensation is paid to the church for the removed property, which is no longer owned by the state, but in 1991 the Czechoslovak State wanted to keep it available to churches, and therefore the blocking clause of the Land Act prevented it from being transferred to other entities. If this transfer occurred, it was done in violation of the mandatory legal provisions. It must be said that in the process of restitution of natural persons or sports organisations, the State, as well as other obliged persons, municipalities, state enterprises, cooperatives, etc. issued matters in kind restitution. The fact that the State, instead of a natural restitution from non-state persons to whom it transferred the original property of the churches, paid a monetary compensation is a benefit to the State for the benefit of those other persons. I would therefore no longer like to read a detailed report by law experts from the Faculty of Law, where many of these people have worked in the Constitutional Court, or have been present in various positions, including assistants of constitutional judges. But the conclusion of this report, my dear colleagues, is quite clear: taxation of financial restitution, its own financial compensation, is unconstitutional. Please, we have several similar expert opinions from other law faculties in the Czech Republic on this House's press. I don't know which one of you bothered to read these arguments. I think the arguments are factual, strong and clear. And if we want to make a legislative legislative process in a free democratic state, a state that is predictable, and we are not before 1989, then I think the responsible legislator cannot raise his hand for such a step with justification, as some outside this hall say, but he will fix it by the Constitutional Court. That is certainly the legislator, the legislative process in an advanced democratic country cannot and must not work. I think it would also be worthwhile for those who are talking about the inadequacy of the Communist Members, so that they have the ambition to talk about wanting to straighten up the wrongs in quotes here, or they should also say and apply to the wrongs they committed after 1945, after 1948, not only property but also human fates, and they should try to make a financial balance. I didn't notice that kind of effort. So please, colleagues, please consider the real relevance of the arguments that I have put forward here, but also many previous speakers, the arguments that were raised in the Senate debate, when the senators under the ČSSD argued not politically, but factually, with the perspective that should belong to the legislators, and rejected this proposal from the Communist pen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President of the House, and then Miroslav Kalousek's priority right, then Marek Výborný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u28	I'd just like to sign up for my proposal for the show I lectured and remind you of it and apologize to the senators and senators who have been here for three hours waiting to see if they're gonna get their turn today. [[ANO Members' response that they do not wait for nothing and they, as Members, have the right to speak to anything as long as they want.]] Because we've been debating for three hours. And I said it would be a long debate. [[The repeated response of the ANO Members that they can debate for 20 hours if they want to, and he can't stop them.]] I'm not stopping anyone from debating. All I'm saying is that we could have discussed the points that might have been more consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Chairman Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment longer, I'll see to it that we have enough peace in the House. Colleagues who discuss other topics are not in their seats, please move the debate into the foyer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when almost seven years ago, in the summer of 2012, the law on property settlement with the churches was finally passed - by two votes, I stress to those who are still spreading in the newspapers and networks that it was by one vote, no, by two votes - so I felt that this was the conclusion of a 20-year discussion that I had the whole honour to attend, a 20-year discussion about the definitive settlement between the state and the churches and the correction of some - I stress some - injustices, because all the injustices cannot be corrected. There are hundreds of years of criminals of decent people who have been imprisoned. I can't fix the tortured, I won't say executed, I'll say murdered. All of this has just happened since 1948. And we agreed only to correct some injustices. And we agreed not only to correct the restitution of property, but also to arrange something that the Communist regime never wanted - the separation of the state from the church. [[17,00 hours]] Please note that in 1948, by what the Communist regime did, it wished to bind the church as much as possible to state influence. To do, and so he did, of the clergy's staff by paying them off, by simply making the church entirely dependent on the state. And what is owned by all democratic secular regimes - and I stress that the Czech Republic, although Catholic, I stress that I insist that I want the Czech Republic to be a democratic secular regime - is that the churches are separated from the state and that they also have their funding resources because they cannot be dependent on the state budget. If the state budget were dependent on it, it's no longer a separation of the church from the state. And this task, this task, Valachová, Mrs Valachová, my colleague, we have been here for 20 years. And it was extremely difficult, it was complex, because it was not just an agreement between the original largest owner - the state - and the Catholic Church, but it was necessary to reach an agreement between the State on the one hand and all the churches and religious societies that were entitled to the State contribution, on the other. And at that moment there were 17, including the Federation of Jewish Religious Communities. I would like to point out to the greatest defenders of Christian values, especially those who lunch pork on Good Friday, that if we were only a year late, according to existing legislation, the Federation of Islamic Religious Communities would be entitled to a state contribution if we had not adopted the law we adopted in 2012. All the arguments... [[Voices in the right side of the hall.]] Yeah, I can't talk because of you, I can't yell at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Prime Minister can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u32	Thank you for understanding. All the arguments we've made here, we're already calling them thousands, and there's no point repeating them. We've been talking about this for 27 years. The actual analyses that have been carried out have been mentioned here. There were very specific numbers on the table, and there were also specific lies on the table. As one of the most disgusting lies ever made in this House, I consider the statement of the Ministry of Finance and Prime Minister that there is an analysis that church restitutions are overpriced. When we were looking for it after the analysis, when we wanted it, after a few weeks of futile inquiry, we found out from the Prime Minister's statement that there was no analysis that the government could rely on its impertinent claim that it was based only on the claim of Mr. former First Vice-President Michal Hašek, who once said it here, that is true, he said it. However, we of us who know what kind of clown Mr. Hašek was, we were terrified when we found out about what and whose claims the Czech government can base its authoritarian statements on what is or is not overpriced. Mr. Hašek's statement. The discussion that was here 20 years before, all Ernst and Young audits, Deloitte Touche, it wasn't important at all. Mr. Hašek said something and the clown repeated it after him. Sorry, Mr. Hašek said something, and the Prime Minister said it after him. And half the nation is convinced that it was. It's not. It divides society and keeps it a lie, ladies and gentlemen. And I don't want to repeat those arguments today. I want to turn to each of you in this House, there are 200 of us here. We are discussing an amendment to a law called the amendment to the law on property settlement with churches. If we were to name it factually, it's the amendment to the second communist theft. 70 years ago... [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] I firmly believe it was about health now, so I waited. 70 years ago, totalitarian communist power invaded the centre of our cultural and educational system over the last hundreds of years. The center of church structures. She imprisoned hundreds of clergymen, destroyed billions of cultural values, stole everything she could have stolen. She conquered a significant part of the civil society called the Church, whether Christian or the Federation of Jewish Religious Communities, and made them largely by her vassals by stealing all their property and leaving them some narrow umbilical cord of financial money from the state budget for their activities, with the fact that there was always a lifted finger of the church secretary who said if you were angry, it would flow less. That happened 70 years ago. There's been unprecedented theft, unprecedented injustice, robbery, demolition, torture, imprisonment, executions! Today we're discussing the amendment, after 70 years, because in 2012 we're definitely closing this. Christian words of forgiveness fell, words of oblivion fell, and in 2012 we finally agreed from 17 Christian churches and with the Federation of Jewish religious communities and said what it was. We must look to the future. Now we've dealt with this, and now we're gonna go on and get this company together. Ladies and gentlemen, for your information, from the hundreds of millions that churches receive each year for their activities, unlike banks and multinational companies, not a crown goes abroad. These are invested in the Czech Republic. Social, health and educational services in the Czech Republic are covered. Monuments in the Czech Republic are being repaired for them! What's wrong with the money? Because, as the Prime Minister would say, they serve the public, and everyone can touch it. Only it really serves the public, unlike the Prime Minister's statements. Well, that's what happens here. And it could have been closed since 2012. This painful boil of prison, torture, execution and theft, you have reopened the proposal of this novel, which I dare call a novel of communist robbery! This is not an amendment to property settlement with churches. It's the novel of a communist robbery! [[17.10 hours]] And I dare appeal to each and every one of us. Every single one of you. 70 years ago, our ancestors decided that. None of us are responsible for this crime. However, any one of us who raises his hand today for the novel of the crime is reporting to him. And in five or ten years, your children will ask you, your history will ask you: did you participate or did you not participate in the crime? And you have a chance to say they didn't. All you have to do is not be active. All you have to do is not be present at the vote. All you have to do is not say yes, because we are overvoking a perfectly correct and unambiguous rejection of the Senate. It's up to each of you, on the conscience of each of you. Forgive me for taking the liberty of appealing to each of you at this moment - do not participate in the novel of Communist injustice! It's up to you. Every single one of you! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Dolínek will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u34	Good afternoon. Mr Kalousek through Mr President, I live in Prague 6 with my family in China Street. We go for walks in two parts of Prague 6. We go to the Sharka Valley and go to the jug. My kids ask one thing. Where's the pool that used to be there before Mr. Kalousek sold it to the developer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u35	Thank you. In the debate, the President will speak Výborný. [[With a factual remark, a messenger shall be reported. Kalousek.]] We can prefer to make a point of fact. The application came after I challenged you, but I think we'll have a gentleman's agreement. Please, Mr President, a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u36	I apologize very much both to President Excellent and, in a way, to my predecessor, whom I want to respond. I have appealed to questions of conscience, questions of the rule of law, fundamental principles of justice. If the answer was the question, where is the puddle on the Džbán, then it's hard!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u37	Thank you. Now in the debate, President Výborný. Please, you have the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so the Prime Minister can start talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, I do not want to speak for much longer because most of the facts here have been said, in fact, all of them and repeatedly during the various discussions of this law or this proposal to tax financial compensation within the framework of church restitutions, yet allow me to speak at this time, and I will not speak to Members of the KSČM, because I consider it quite unnecessary there. The fact that her idea enemies of the church have always been, and the Catholic one separately, is known. The fact that communists have always had a tendency to make decisions about property that didn't belong to them, that may be a bit encoded in communist genes, but that's why I'm not going to turn to them. But I would like to turn to you, members of the YES movement, to members of social democracy, because at this point, we will actually decide whether or not the fundamental certainty and principles of the rule of law apply in our country. Let's not talk about any more expenses, let's not talk about calculating financial compensation. I think the absurdity of some statements about being overpriced by 54 billion. in a situation where the compensation amounts to 59 billion, with reference to a smiling statement, as has already been said here, a kind of Michal Hašek, so I think it is clear to all that these arguments and these words are completely outside the debate that we are having here. But what I want to remind you of and what may not have sounded very strongly here, the financial compensation is really a substitute for what was taken away from the church, stolen and what could not be recovered afterwards, because it was liquidated for whatever reason, or it was given to other owners and the property could not be issued. Thus, it is not income, but it is compensation for the damage caused to the churches and religious communities. And we are in a situation where it is not only the Catholic Church, but it is also the other churches and it is the Federation of Jewish Communities. And this is where I'd take it from the end. We decide whether we will harm the Federation of Jewish Communities for the third time in a situation where the Nazis stole their property for the first time, the Communists for the second time, and for the third time, we will deprive them of part of the financial compensation today by making a decision on this amendment. It is also a fundamental impact on the activities of other churches and religious societies, especially smaller ones, because of course the impact can be very fatal there. And let us remember that the churches here do not live in a ghetto, that the churches are not separated from society, but rather from society and our citizens, your voters, the voters of the ANO movement and all of us other churches and religious societies provide their services. Let us recall the activities of charity, remember the activities of diacons, remember the activities of other institutions that help people in need, those who cannot take care of themselves. Let us also recall activities within education and education. Many church schools belong to elite institutions in the field of education and education in the Czech Republic. And we could go on and on like this. And also to remind you of the essential and important. The whole law was conceived as a step towards the separation of churches from the state. I assume that we all agree here, including you members of the ANO movement, including the Minister of Finance, that there is no reason for the State to participate financially in the operation of churches and religious societies, and precisely this law was designed to do so, so that the churches would gradually move towards a system of self-financing. I remind you that the amount that is gradually decreasing every year will be replaced gradually by the fact that at the end the churches will finance themselves. Let us not forget that this too is part of the entire law and regulation. Let me also conclude by reminding you that this vote is about respect for legal predictability, legal certainty, legal principles. If these agreements have been concluded here under this law with 14 churches and religious societies and the Federation of Jewish Communities, then of course these contracts can be changed, but only and only as standard, by the agreement of both sides, that is, the state and individual churches. Nothing hinders the government, nothing prevents the Prime Minister from entering into these negotiations, although it is clear that if an agreement has ever been accepted and confirmed that it should also apply. But it is not possible to enter into this unilaterally from the position of Parliament. I would like to express my great respect for the Upper Chamber of Parliament, the Senate, where, as it turned out, the vast majority of the senators, including on the part of social democracy, once again would recall the vote of the Social Democratic Senator Club, as well as the members of other senator clubs, have clearly confirmed that this amendment is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and is probably unconstitutional. I don't want to predict how, if possible, if the veto is overruled here today, and if the law is signed by the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court will decide. We should not decide with regard to any future decisions of any institution, but we should decide according to our conscience and our promise as Members here. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the YES movement, social democracy, please take into account in your vote what has been said here both from my mouth and from my previous speakers. Indeed, this vote is about our conscience, yours, our approach to what we have promised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u39	Thank you. President Kováčik will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, you have certainly noticed that none of the Communist Members or any of the Communist Members participated in the long discussion today. We consider - with the exception of one of Mr Luzar's reactions. We consider it clear that everything that was needed has already been said. In fact, I respect KDU-ČSL Members for having a clear view. I respect right-wing Members for having an opinion on property issues, settlement issues, taxation issues. I respect everyone's opinion. You have every right to be. However, when this discussion has reached the level of moral appeal, I simply have to respond. My constituents, our voters, KSČM voters, would find it hard to forgive us, because when we talk about morality, we need to talk about the whole morale in history. Not only about the last few decades, but also about the morale for which the property was created, often in a very honest way in witch trials whose victims or families whose victims have never been compensated. After all, there was no one to compensate, because there was consistently going into the throats and goods, especially the goods, when the throats were already solved. I don't want to speak widely, I just have a point of fact. Consider also these moral appeals, the appeals of disprovement of entire civilizations, or recent appeals of abused children by some church officials for a long time. I ask you to confirm the decision of the Chamber of Deputies with which this material went to the Senate, as it has been so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u41	Thank you. President Kalousek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that with some envy, I fully understand the satisfaction of President Kováčik, who said that Members of the KSČM Club did not have to perform here. Well, they didn't have to, because the communists in other political clubs, especially YES, the ČSSD, did it for them. I would also like other factions to proclaim our ideas. We're not doing so well. You probably have a longer practice in this, Mr President. Congratulations on that. However, despite all the communists across the political spectrum, I dare to appeal on the conscience of every Member. Do not participate in Communist crime number 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u43	Thank you. Is there another application for the debate, please? Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? There's no interest in final words. Is the senator interested? In the meantime, I have already called in Members to vote. Senator, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u44	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I have listened to a very interesting debate which, of course, we cannot experience in the Senate because we do not have such a long time. However, it is okay, and I liked such a debate because it has enriched me in many ways. There were a few points I was interested in. I'm not gonna repeat myself as in my opening speech, what the law is about, what it's not about. I was intrigued by the fact that someone here said the law split the company. I don't think the law can separate society. The company was divided by politicians. The way they interpreted the law. I have to say that myself, before I became rapporteur for this law, I had some reservations about church restitution because I only knew what the politicians had told me and what the media had told me. I had to study this law in detail, and I have to say, it's a good law. In the course of this debate, I saw in fact that we are all representatives here elected by the people and we have been given power in our hands. And I realized what that power really is. Power, that's responsibility. And only strong personalities can bear that responsibility. And because, like a lot of people here, I appeal to your conscience, too, because as rapporteur, I know that the law is wrong, and I know one thing that we approve of a law that most of you assume will be abolished by the Constitutional Court. And I think that our nation does not deserve us to legally confuse this system with something that is actually to be abolished in the future. That's the opinion of the Senate, and that's the opinion that's been held in the debates. Again, let me remind you that the senators behind the ČSSD, including the Chairman of the constitutional law committee of Mr Antl, were fundamentally against this law. And you must also realise that Mr. Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee Antl was the one who initiated the original constitutional complaint against this law before the Constitutional Court, when the law was actually found constitutionally comfortable (?). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u45	Thank you, Senator. As I was saying, I've already called in Members and Members who haven't been in the O.R. We may proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of some other laws and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, pursuant to House Press 38/9.' [[Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies]] Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 99, 181 Members registered, for 114, versus 57. I state that the bill has been passed. President Kalousek will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Let me say that the vote was legitimate and democratic, and the outcome is certainly valid. This does not mean that it will serve to the pride of the Czech Republic in its history. Despite the outcome, I dare to express the unshakable belief that truth and love will prevail over lies and hatred. [[Laughter on the left.]] And on that list of lies and hate, your names will be forever, colleagues. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u47	President Bartošek with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u48	Thank you. I respect the outcome of the vote. The debate was democratic, albeit long. But I would like to appreciate the role of the Senate here. When constitutional order was established after the period of totalitarianism, those who founded it knew very well why the Senate formed, what role to play, and that it would be very important for our democracy. And I am very pleased that the Senate has stood up in this duel with honor, while the Chamber of Deputies failed and became an instrument only to buy the price for the coalition. Thanks for the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u49	President Filip with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u50	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, a factual point will suffice for me. I didn't want to perform and extend the law hearing rejected by the Senate. But I want to say to those who moralized here that there are at least 11 300 higher education teachers in the Czech society who were fired, even though they had permanent employment contracts, they were legally expelled. Large groups of residents have been deprived of the right to continue their work and have even been deprived of their service for years. That is why the AR 95 movement was created. They've never been compensated! So please, when you talk about morality, remember the morale you've developed here in the '90s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u51	President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u52	I'm just here for the record. I assume, Mr Vice-President, through Mr President, that you were talking about those who were fired after 1968. And those who did not approve of the occupation of Soviet troops who were persecuted, fired from work. And it wasn't just about college professors who were subjected to humiliating approval for something they didn't agree to internally. Yes, that's part of our history.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u53	Thank you. We are not in the debate, but on the outcome of Mrs Adámková's vote. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not questioning the vote, but I have a different way of doing it than I did. So I just want to announce it for the record. I'm not questioning the vote. [[Members are asking how she voted.]] I'm high, yes, but I wanted to stick around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-001-001.u55	Yes, thank you. No one else claims priority rights. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Mr Radim Fiala, President of the SPD, apologizes for today's meeting from 17 p.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Minister Antonín Staněk from 16.15 today and subsequently from 24 to 26. 4. due to foreign travel. We'll continue with the next point and it's point number
