ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. Co-worker Juchelka has a replacement card number 11 today. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 55 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday 18 April this year. We will now proceed to the designation of the meeting verifiers. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide on the number one vote that I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number one. Of the 128 Members present, for 124, against no one. I note that we have appointed Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Tomáš Vymazal to the verifiers of the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I hereby declare that until the beginning of the meeting they have applied for the whole day for the whole day, for the whole Karel, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the Eva HájekFialová for the whole Tureček, for the whole day, for the Václav Tomáš, for the Klaus Bohuslav, Pastuchová Mračková for the whole day, Karla Blažek for the whole day, for the whole day, Marian Bojko for the whole day, for the Jan day, Jana Schiller for the whole day, Jaroslav Dvořák for the Květa Taťána, for the Šlechtová Radek for the Bělica Karel, Věra the Kovářová day, Dominik Feri for the Pavel Grospič, Kováčik 11 hours Jan Chvojka for the whole Ivo Zlesák, for the Václav day, for the Rais day, for the whole day, for the Jiří day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole Svoboda, for the Olga of the work, for the Dana day, for the Pavel Žáček, for the whole day. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the long-term planned foreign trip to the Visegrad Group meeting in Bratislava, Richard Brabec due to foreign travel for the whole day, Jan Kněžínek for working reasons for the whole day, Lubomír Metnar for working reasons for the whole day, Marta Nováková due to foreign trip also for the whole day, Tomáš Petříček for working reasons for the whole day, Robert Plaga for working reasons also for the whole day, Antonín Staněk due to foreign travel for the whole day, Dan Ťok is also on foreign trip for the whole day, as well as Miroslav Toman also for the whole day due to foreign travel. Those were the apologies received, and we can proceed. We'll proceed to the 29th meeting. Colleague Schiller withdraws his apology from today's meeting. We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will vote on the whole proposal for a programme, as submitted in writing, but before that, I have five entries registered with priority rights. First logged in is Petr Fiala. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. A colleague Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. [[Members argue that Mr Petr Fiala is the President, not the Vice-President.]] Sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u2	I'm sure it wasn't intent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make a brief statement on what led us to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies with the three proposed points, as we will be talking about them gradually. However, I must start by saying that I find it incredible that the negotiations of this extraordinary meeting are not attended by the Prime Minister, who, whether by responsibility or by personal problems, concerns the points that we are going to be talking about. I cannot explain why this meeting was convened on the date when the Prime Minister is supposed to be excused in the long term because he is at a V4 meeting. Why hasn't there been a time when the Prime Minister might be here? I consider it an expression of contempt for the opposition parties, and I think that something like this is really unusual and incredible. But okay, the Prime Minister is not here, there are neither many members of the government, yet we will touch questions that are very serious for the Czech Republic and go across the resorts. This is also an expression of what the government thinks about our proposals and how it underestimates the current serious situation facing the Czech Republic. When we proposed this meeting, I called it a drill alert. The training alarm is because there have been several warning signals, which should raise alarms especially in the ranks of the government. But apparently the government has a purpose - and so does today's presence here - to pretend that nothing is happening, that everything is okay. But it's happening. And things are not okay and the Czech Republic is starting to have serious problems. And he's in serious trouble because of the progress of the government of Andrej Babiš. [[10.10 hours]] I will tell you exactly the moment when I became convinced that we must transmit signals about the results of government policy to the House of Deputies. Or rather, when we must transmit signals about the results of government non-politics to the House of Deputies. It was when I heard the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's response to the 2018 Supreme Audit Office report. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the report of the Supreme Audit Office. [[shows]] It has about a hundred sides. And the Prime Minister left this detailed report saying that he didn't actually read it, but even though he didn't read it, he knows that the report was wrong. Then he tried to discredit the President of the Supreme Audit Office that he came from the ČSSD. By the way, the ČSSD is a coalition partner of the YES movement in the government, I point out. And thirdly, the SAO has submitted an analysis of government policies and that the SAO has nothing to do with it. And that the government will take away the SAO's report by pointing out that it's none of their business. So that's how Andrej Babiš stood up to this report. Sum of sum, old favorite trick. To question, to attack, to repel, but not to comment on the matter at all, and not to comment on what is relevant in this report. And I'll tell you, I honestly don't care if the Supreme Audit Office has extended the interpretation of its tasks or not. I don't really care what side the chairman of the Supreme Audit Office comes from. But one thing is clear. The Supreme Audit Office is an official state institution, they have analysts there, they have the powers to obtain the required data. And what matters in this case is what it says. What does it say? And the Prime Minister, when I listened to him, didn't question a word of it. He questioned the political focus of the President of the Supreme Audit Office, the scope of the powers, but did not question what the report of the Supreme Audit Office states. I conclude from this that even the Prime Minister knows it's true. And listen carefully to a few sentences in that report: That we're on the ground in key areas. That instead of reforms, we create problems for the future. That we're eating economic growth. That we are drawing up deficit budgets during the period of economic growth and we have a low quality of the budget process in drawing up the state budget. That we have a significant increase in the state's current spending and the associated risk of public finances being unsustainable in the future. That we are not reducing administrative burdens enough and simplifying taxpayers' taxes. That, in 2018, the government was also alerted to the long-term unsustainableness of public finances by the National Budget Board, which considered the main risk of non-compliance between legislative settings, future demographic developments and delaying pension reform. That we support large food companies at the expense of small and medium-sized farms. That is certainly how the Prime Minister was personally upset by this sentence, and we, ladies and gentlemen, are only on page 14 of this more than a hundred-page report. On the following page 15, the Prime Minister could read that the Supreme Audit Office had taken the liberty of correcting speech, phrases, graphs, the Prime Minister's fantasy in a rather sensitive area when he writes about the success of the government in building the motorway there on page 15: In the area of transport infrastructure, the motorway network in 2018 was expanded by less than four kilometers. [[shows]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the facts contained in the Supreme Audit Office's report. [[shows the report again]] Dear House, reasonable people know that a trend is far more important than the current situation. And the Prime Minister here is attacking the Supreme Audit Office's report for dealing with what he doesn't have. It's okay. Let him deal with the Supreme Audit Office. It is important to me, on the contrary, that the report contains a description of the trend, the direction in which the Czech Republic is going. He describes it faithfully and that the trend is not good. The trend is that we're walking on the spot. The trend is we can't hear the alarm ring. The trend is that we are almost halfway through the term of office, and the conceptual work of the government should basically be over in these fundamentals long ago, and we should see the first reform steps. On the contrary, it seems to me, and not only does it seem to me, it is also mentioned in the Supreme Audit Office's report that nothing really started. I think that in this hall, we can all well distinguish what the campaign is, what the purpose is, what the topic is, and what the authentic testimony is from within the authorities, ministries, institutions where they tell you what's really going on. And it often tells more about reality than the dreams, marketing tricks, and talk that the Prime Minister and his team supply us with. To document this on something, I quote here the testimony of a man who sees into the bowels of a government who is now not campaigning for a republic that does not have its magicians on social networks, who was a minister at the Ministry of Finance - by the way under the YES movement - and who is now a deputy at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And the one quite quietly two weeks ago on Czech television in the debate on budget problems, and whether it is real that the government will hold at least a 40-billion-dollar deficit, so this person said this - I quote: "Next year it will be much more problematic than this year and there must be some way to change it. But if there's no drastic cuts, and we can't save by getting rid of 10% of civil servants. Then we'd have to start reducing all the laws first, and we have 136 strategies. The 136 strategies bring several hundred priorities, which means we have none. All these strategies are regularly reported, some officials are increased and so on." The end of the quote of the words of a man who is a deputy at the Ministry of Industry, who was the Minister of Finance and who sees what is happening in the government. Yes. And so on. This is an authentic testimony to the real state of things. And the entire Prime Minister's campaign at the beginning of the year to reduce officials by ten percent was bluff. This is where we hear it from his own people. And it has also been said from the Minister of the Interior that nothing will be done on his department in this matter. Here we have heard, I would say, more general testimony, and this together gives us some kind of opinion about what the atmosphere is like in the government and what is happening really inside the government. Well, what Mr. Pilný said, that there are no priorities, no real priorities, no one has to secretly take it out of the resort, that's no secret. That's what we all see when we look at what the government is doing. And that's why. This, too, is why we asked for this meeting to be convened. We want to make it clear to the government that she is missing a train, that the Czech Republic is losing a train. It's time to wake up. And that you need to start doing something. And I'm proving it to you here, not on any of the opposition's opinions, on the Supreme Audit Office's report, and on the words of a man who sits for you in government positions. On the second point of the meeting, I won't talk to you for long. I'm only going to make a very brief statement. But the facts are very clear, and they're also not very encouraging. And we should also be ringing the alarm here because there's a serious matter going on. The Ministry of Finance is constantly reducing GDP growth prospects. From the original 3.1 percent, we're somewhere at 2.4 percent. Of course, economic growth has an impact on the implementation of the state budget. And when we look at how it looks, the budget result is worse by CZK 58 billion compared to 2018. And that's only April. It's only April, and we're already in such bad numbers. If the government doesn't do anything, and so far it doesn't look like the government is doing anything, and it's going to keep promising and making even more promises and giving away, then at the end of the year, we can fall to some 100 billion crowns. And we don't hear, we don't see anybody in this House who logically should hear it, that someone would inform this House of what strategy the government wants to choose. What's he gonna do about it? It didn't happen. We're just in a situation where we have to ask ourselves to do this, because we can't stand to rush into self-locking because of the government's actions, thanks to all those promises, thanks to all the money we've spent to get into the problems that are objectively threatening here. [[10.20 hours]] As regards the third point that we have called this meeting for, i.e. the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, here I will only touch it telegraphically in two basic circles. First of all, I would point out in front of the parentheses that having a criminally prosecuted prime minister is a matter that we will all remember once in a way that people will wriggle their heads together and they will not understand how this could have happened. But I note, please nicely, that in this House we voted on the distrust of the Prime Minister and that the result was that the Prime Minister as a person does not have the support of the majority in this Chamber of Deputies, he does not have the support of the majority, but there is not at this time such a majority, a sufficient majority who would like to replace him. That's right, I respect that, that's just the way it is. At the same time, however, we would not want to give up our efforts to minimize the damage or threats it poses to the Czech Republic. And now, objectively, the facts. Objectively, for example, this is the case, and it is the fact that the European Union has stopped subsidies for Agrofert as a result of the Prime Minister's problems. That's right. But Agrofert gets the subsidies. These companies today subsidize Czech taxpayers in the billions of crowns and there is no guarantee that this money will be returned to Czech taxpayers. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact. First fact. The second fact is that the express exchange at the position of Minister of Justice at a time when the prosecutor decides to prosecute the Prime Minister and his family, that this exchange is a step which calls into question the rule of law in the large majority of Czech citizens and in the eyes of the country as well. That is why I believe that the Prime Minister here should reconsider his decision and should address this sensitive situation, a sensitive situation, simply otherwise, in favour of the Czech Republic and not according to his own considerations. He could have handled this differently, I don't want to tell him, but, for example, by leaving the nomination to his coalition partner or looking for a wider consensus across the political spectrum about who's supposed to be in charge of this position right at the time the Prime Minister is threatened with prosecution. These are all the reasons why we have proposed this meeting, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss how we will deal with it so that we can hear from the government what it wants to do so that all Members can express their views on this serious situation. And I would also like to conclude after the debate, and I hope that the debate will be allowed, to adopt, as the Chamber of Deputies, some resolutions that would move the situation forward. I have here a motion for eight resolutions that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, could adopt. I will now at least tell you the framework in which the resolutions should, in our opinion, go. We could adopt three resolutions to conflict of interest. The first resolution in which we call on the government to suspend the payment of subsidies to Agrofert companies from the Czech national budget until the Prime Minister resolves his personal and business problems associated with the suspension of European subsidies to Agrofert companies. Resolution number 2 that we could adopt is one in which we invite the Prime Minister to refrain from verbal attacks against police authorities and justice in connection with the conclusions of the investigation of his person and his family. That's the thing that's obvious, I don't have to explain. And resolution number three, in which we invite the Prime Minister to such a political solution as to fill the position of Minister of Justice, which will not interfere with public confidence in the rule of law. These are the first three resolutions concerning conflicts of interest. On budgetary issues, we believe that the House should adopt two resolutions. Resolution No 4 in which we commit the Government to submit by 30 May 2019 a plan for the correction of the State budget for 2019 and by 30 June 2019 a plan for the reduction of the state budget's administrative expenditure. And resolution number 5, in which we ask the Prime Minister to publish the so-called government investment plan for CZK 3.5 trillion, because such a plan goes beyond the government's term of office, because the Prime Minister has refused to point out such a plan at our request in the Chamber of Deputies, and I think it is appropriate that the Chamber of Deputies should call on the Prime Minister to do so. So that was resolution number five. And our proposals for three resolutions remain on recommendations, analyses, reports from the Supreme Audit Office. In this context, we would like to propose resolution number 6 in which we will commit the Government to present by 30 June 2019 a plan and deadlines for reducing red tape by 10 per cent by the end of 2020 and by another 10 per cent by the end of 2021, i.e. de facto by the end of the parliamentary term. Resolution No. 7 in which we commit the government to submit a plan, principles and deadlines for tax reform by 30 June 2019. Plan, principles and deadlines for tax reform. Finally, resolution number 8 in which we commit the government to submit a plan, principles and deadlines for pension reform by 30 June. To that last package, I would like to draw your attention to all of you who are coalition MPs, that this is not about anything contrary to the government's programming statement. The resolutions that we are proposing are not in contradiction. We do not even give you any political vision of what it should look like, what it should be about, how you deal with the challenges. We do not say what content is meant to be, but we ask the government to present a solution. She's put forward a solution. What your tax reform will look like is your business, but present to the Chamber of Deputies by 30. 6. 2019 plan, principles and deadlines for tax reform. Same with pension reform. These are things that are extremely important to the Czech Republic, and we would like to call you on that. This is not the opposition's interest, it is the interest of the Czech Republic and this is a space where even those clubs that directly or indirectly support the government could be found. My esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by calling you to keep your hands off the facts that I have presented here, which have been gathered here. I repeat, there are facts, facts on the table, there are clearly formulated risks, they are seen by independent institutions, we know about them, and we need to do something about it. And please be aware that a few months are up, and we've had half the term. And you all know, especially you, who have been in politics for a while, what it is with the election period and what the political cycle looks like. In the first half of the parliamentary term, every government works with your words when you want to hear it, that is, of course, working according to its abilities, but doing something. In the second half of the parliamentary term, the government usually thinks about how it will take a marketing interest and what it will sell. And in the first half of the electoral cycle, the harder political decisions are usually taken, and in the second, perhaps some popular measures are being prepared. And I'm afraid that now we're approaching halfway through the term, when the government starts thinking about how it's going to sell, what it didn't do, I'm afraid how it's going to turn out for the Czech Republic. Because when the government did not actually adopt, it did not take any more difficult reform decisions, so what will the first-plan measures look like in the second half of the parliamentary term? I'm totally scared of it. If we have so far had, instead of the competence and proper management, the government of marketing without competence, what will it look like next? If we don't push, we won't pull the brakes, we won't push the government, we won't say out loud, "No!" You can't go on like this! [[10.30 hours]] It is simply time for the government to wake up to stop dreaming, to come out of its marketing comfort and start dealing with things, and to start dealing with them here in the Chamber of Deputies. And she told us - and that is it - that the government tells us what we will do with the budget crumbling, what we will do with the unsustainable budget, what we will do with bureaucracy, what we will do with future pensions for 40-year-olds and younger, what we will do with all the challenges and dangers and risks that the Supreme Audit Office has drawn attention to and highlighted by the development of the state budget. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you could simply say, "What are we going to do?" What will you do to make the situation in the Czech Republic change for the better?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u3	I thank Mr Petr Fial, who was the first to speak before the meeting. I note that I currently have eight more priority rights. Before we continue, I note that my colleague Kováčik and Mrs Pastuchová cancelled their apology from today's meeting, but Mr Lukáš Kolařík apologized. My colleague Mihola apologized for working reasons for the whole day and Mrs Helena Válková from 10.00 to 10.30 for working reasons. The second performer, as I announced, is Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u4	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to ask all Members in this House, as well as Government Members, to support the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. We've got three points on it. It's a conflict of interest, it's a budgetary situation, and it's the SAO's annual report. All these three points deserve a debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And we really don't want to have a debate to blame ourselves here at all costs, but to try together to find a way out of the very difficult situation in which the Czech Republic has found itself, and to discuss how to eliminate the many risks that are ahead of us and that we will not escape. No matter how we deny them, she'll become a reality anyway. To the conflict of interest, I can only say that we have already become internationally famous. So I think it is an international disgrace, but if you want, we can call it international renown, because even the important public German television ZDF broadcasts a story in which it deals with the Czech Republic and its Prime Minister with the fact that it draws European money against European values. Everything is legal, as the report states, and we all know it, simply because, by political power, the Prime Minister has demanded a change in terms and rules so that large companies can draw on small and medium-sized enterprises and then legally draws them, which - as it is noted - is contrary to European values. And, as the President of the European Union's Supervisory Committee has also said, it even worsens the quality of democracy in the country concerned. Indeed, it is because transfers to business entities, whether to the common agricultural policy or to the competitiveness improvement programme, are not released with a motive to increase production. There's a lot of production on the market. They are released with motive in a globalised world to support the small and medium ones so that they can resist the greatest in a competitive fight. And the goal is the quality of democracy, because such an effect promotes a broad, free middle class. And the broad middle class, single, is the anchor of every democratic regime. If we turn this around and we are going towards the biggest subsidies at the expense of small and medium-sized people, which unfortunately is happening in our country, we are really reducing the quality of democracy because we are heading towards a model where a few large business groups here will control all the people. This is a matter for a really serious discussion. I would like to particularly appreciate the KDU-ČSL Members who are ready to vote in favour of this meeting and discuss it with us because the rules have not changed now. Those rules have changed in the previous government, in the government of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. Andrej Babiš didn't enforce them himself. Someone had to design them for him, and someone had to approve them for him. So I would also like to ask ČSSD Members whether they would also be as cool as our KDU-ČSL colleagues and not discuss this issue with us and the conditions for drawing, where large companies will not be supported at the expense of small and medium-sized companies, as unfortunately happened due to the changed conditions in the previous government period. After all, if somebody thought that that bad German TV was badmouthing us because we have an anti-immigration premiere, and the TV is pro-migration, which is probably the dumbest excuse I've heard in 20 years, that's exactly what you'll find in the SAO's annual report. On page 55, you will find a quote that, as a result of the set conditions and rules, the aid is mainly granted to large food companies at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is what our institutions, our Supreme Audit Office, state, and I think this issue deserves to be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. Because if we did a poll, I firmly believe that most of us would rather support those small and medium-sized ones. A lot of people also talk about it on TV. But the reality is exactly the opposite. They are supported by the large ones at the expense of the small and medium ones according to the SAO report, page 55, if the Czech Television report is not enough. If we are with the SAO report, which is also a programme of our extraordinary meeting, it is very factually concerned with the sustainability of public finances. In fact, without emotion, the report describes the systemic risks to which the Czech public budgets are exposed and which will put pressure on budgets in the coming years and undoubtedly threaten macroeconomic balance. So let's have a serious discussion on how to eliminate it, how to improve it. The Committee on Budgets will discuss tomorrow morning the convergence programme, which the government must send each year by the end of April to the European Commission, describing its fiscal efforts and indicating budgets for the next three years. In this convergence programme, the government cannot admit, nor can it otherwise, that it has made negative fiscal efforts in 2018, that it is again making negative fiscal efforts in 2019 and that it intends to make negative fiscal efforts in 2020. Negative fiscal efforts, that is to say, the government's actions are actively and consciously aggravating the balance of public budgets. Positive fiscal efforts are when the government actively and consciously improves the balance of public budgets. Neutral fiscal effort is when it does neither one nor the other. [[10.40 hours]] The Czech Government, and it itself has it in its document, says: we are actively and consciously deteriorating the balance sheet of public budgets with our decisions, and we intend to do so next year. I think it deserves a discussion. We are after five years of extraordinary economic growth. The economy is cooling down, but still, I hope, there is no tragedy ahead, there is still very decent economic growth ahead, but the government says: we want to continue to actively deteriorate the state of our public budgets, because we are making negative fiscal efforts. Everyone can read it in the convergence program. That's a nice government document, that's not my statement, and we'll discuss it tomorrow. Of course, the biggest problem of the sustainability of public budgets, which the SAO report also deals with, is the sustainability of the compulsory insurance system, i.e. social insurance and health insurance. That's a notorious problem. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall how irritable the Prime Minister reacted to the National Budget Board report, which predicted developments by 2050, 2060 and said that at that time the social insurance and pension insurance system would become completely unsustainable. As the Prime Minister put it, as he said, don't let the National Budget Board play prognostic for the next 50 years, don't scare people. She describes it in a similar way, as the National Budget Board describes it in a similar way as the risks of future developments in the sustainability of public budgets, as described in the SAO report, on which the Prime Minister expressed himself even more irritablely. Again, he said it was nonsense and it was none of the SAO's business. So let's see what the government itself writes about this problem, because the convergence programme, which is a government document, is dedicated to the long-term sustainability of public budgets, as well, and in the government document, the government writes: we expect the balance to be relatively stable at a level of around minus 0.3 percent of GDP by 2030. In the next period, the balance will deteriorate and fall almost to minus 4 percent of GDP around 2060, writes the government. A government whose prime minister denies this when another institution says so. It's true, of course. The government is right, but at the same time, the Prime Minister, when someone else says it, he just denies it and says it's a campaign and a missionary. So let's just hold on to this government document, hold on to the convergence programme, admit that the social security system really is sustainable only until 2030 - and please, ladies and gentlemen, in a moment, that's eleven years, that's basically nothing in terms of the long-term cash flow pension system - and that after 2030, it will quickly start falling into huge problems, and if something doesn't happen in the near future, then into problems unsolvable. When the government knows this, the government says this to the House Budget Committee, the government sends this to DG Ecofin in Brussels, but we don't know what the government wants to do about it yet. We only know the government's programming statement, which states that pension reform is a number one priority and that its core pillar is the separation of the pension account from the state budget. I would like to say that there is no reform of the separation of the pension account from the state budget. It's just a methodical accounting step that doesn't solve anything. On the contrary, I think it will complicate the situation. But okay, let's talk about it, let's talk about what we're going to do, what steps, what principles, so that in 2040 the pension account deficit doesn't fall to 2% of GDP and in 2060 to 4 percent of GDP, because we're already in an absolutely unsustainable situation. Of course, none of us know how much GDP is going to be in 2050, but if it was a nice day, it would be 200 billion. And that's, we all know it's unsustainable. The government knows, it cannot know, because it itself writes in its document, which will be discussed tomorrow by the Committee on Budgets, and does nothing at all. Nor does it indicate what measures - I do not imagine that I will see pension reform on the table in the paragrafo version, but I think that the House should discuss at least those basic principles on how to ensure the sustainability of public budgets, the risks of which are highlighted by the SAO's report and, after all, by the government itself in its convergence programme. The SAO report also addresses the issue of taxes in terms of failure to simplify the tax system, which, of course, complicates life for both tax administrators and taxpayers. Again, it deserves its discussion. Once again, it deserves its discussion mainly because the My Tax project, which is often presented by the Minister, unfortunately does not count, as far as I know, yet with the fact that there would be a uniform payment of all direct contributions, i.e. personal income taxes, social insurance and health insurance, from a unified basis, from one place to one collection point from which the joint control would also come. We've all always agreed to this idea. It was also legal, then it was abolished, there were many false statements about it, but let's just not blame ourselves for the past. Let's go back to the basic issue of simplifying the tax system and, for God's sake, paying three taxes from three different places, from different bases, to different places, and from there to come checks, it's just inefficient and none of us want it. And so how do we do it so that it goes from one place to one base to one account and one check comes from another. Is it so hard to even talk about it and try to make it happen? Why is this government so fiercely defending itself? Please approve of the program so that we can discuss it. It is also worth discussing the quality and competitiveness of public administration. If we compare the Czech Republic on an international scale and its competitiveness, it is not doing badly thanks to entrepreneurs. Of the 140 countries evaluated within the OECD, we are on the 29th place. And we could be much higher than the 29th place if we didn't have such inefficient public administration. Because in the same assessment, the same methodology as regards the competitiveness of public administration, we are in 97th place, far beyond some developing countries, and within 28 countries of the European Union, twenty-fourth quarters. If you think I'm making this up, you'll find this in the SAO's report. This is worth a very serious debate in the Chamber of Deputies. It's obvious here that we have a direct-- sorry, direct-- on the contrary-- we have an indirect dimension between quantity and quality. [[10.50 hours]] Over the last five years, the government has recruited over 40,000 new civil servants. I agree that by far not all are officials, but there are thousands of officials among them. By tens of billions, the wage cost of personnel paid from the state budget increased. And we're at 97th place in competitiveness. And if the Minister says to the press that we have to cut civil servants by 10 percent today, I say yes, I agree, of course, maybe 20. But for God's sakes, why did you pick up that 10 percent? All right, so it's already happened, so let's talk about how to really get an army of civil servants moving somewhere around 440 thousand people to a reasonable number, a funded number and, above all, an executive number to increase their competitiveness. And if the indirect dimension is true, of course, it only applies to some extent of quantity and quality, so we just have to get on with it. Which is painful, which is unpopular. And we're here to offer our help and let's talk about it, let's discuss it. Also, if the programme is approved, we have prepared a number of resolutions that we wanted to propose to you. Some of them cover themselves with what President Fiala has been lecturing here, so I'm not going to repeat that. But I would like to offer you some consideration, at least to think about a resolution, where the House would ask the government to stop making negative fiscal efforts. To at least try to be neutral when she doesn't want to be positive anymore. But to make negative fiscal efforts at a time of economic growth - does anyone want it? If that's what you want, leave it that way, but I think the House should at least discuss whether it wants to or not. Furthermore, we would ask the government to present no pension reform within a few months. The Prime Minister promised it in 2016 and it is 2019, but since we know that nothing like this is going to happen, I understand that the government cannot present anything sensible this year, but it should at least present the basic principles that it wants to achieve the long-term sustainability of public budgets when it knows that after 2030 it will begin to fall into an unsolvable situation unless we do anything until then. I would like to propose a resolution where we would discuss how to change the conditions and rules that this government has changed in the past period in a way that, as the SAO report states, provides support to large companies at the expense of small and medium-sized companies. How to change the conditions and rules so that they provide support to small and medium-sized people against large ones, including the ceiling of direct payments and a whole range of things. That's the thing about each and every one of us. Quality of life in the country. The qualities of democracy. You really want to keep quiet about it and say, "Well, if those guys did it like that, then let them take it? It's the House's responsibility to talk about it! Especially when a report from the Supreme Audit Office draws attention to this. And, of course, we would like to hear from the government and how it wants to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of public administration, which, paradoxically, has deteriorated year after year with how the state swells and recruits new and new employees. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is really worth a very serious discussion. And who else should discuss this other than the Chamber of Deputies? And who else would tell the government their fantasies than the government. (?) And I want to commit myself to the fact that if these ideas are not in direct conflict with the TOP 09 program launches, that we will be willing to cooperate with the government on them and that we will be happy to support it. But at least we have to hear how the government wants to handle this. Because all we've heard so far is that there's no such thing as trouble. But they exist, they are very serious, and we think that this deserves an extraordinary meeting and that the relevant resolutions, which will certainly be presented here by the various factions, deserve this. To highlight the positive attitude of the TOP 09 to this issue, I want to say one commitment in advance. The 2020 budget, which the government is already debating and which will somehow come out of the convergence programme, given, of course, the budgetary policy that has been being made here for the past five years, cannot be good. It just can't be done. No one will be able to do that in the next few months when the budget will be approved. But at least it is possible to think about the future and future generations in a way that will not be offensive. If, in the last year of our government's crisis in 2012, the total share of state budget expenditure has managed to have at least 10 per cent of investment, i.e. 9.9 per cent, I believe that, after five years of excellent economic growth, this could also succeed in 2020. That would be 10 per cent of the total cost of the state investment budget. I remind you, this year it's 8.1 and it really isn't any glory. The budget is redistributive, doesn't think about the future, eats the present. Ten percent really isn't an excessive demand. A country that wants to dynamically modernize should have that share somewhere else. But I'm trying to live in reality. That is, if the share of investment expenditure in total expenditure is at least 10 per cent and the planned deficit does not increase, we are prepared to take seriously the support of the budget and the budget, even though there will be a thousand other things that will fundamentally bother us. But if there's at least 10 percent of investment, we'll have a clear conscience that the budget also thinks about the horizon over this election period, that it thinks about the younger generation, that it thinks about the future and doesn't just think about cynical power retention tomorrow. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u5	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Next on the agenda is Marek Výborný, prepared by colleague Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u6	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. The serious torso of the Government of the Czech Republic, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at the situation in which we want to discuss with the Government in such serious situations as the deficit of the state budget such as the serious things that are mentioned in the report of the independent Supreme Audit Office, that the government approaches this debate in a godly way and that there is no need to hear the voices of the opposition or the voices of its own Members, because I assume that all members of this House should be involved in this debate on such serious matters. But I want to say clearly here at the beginning that this extraordinary meeting is out of the ordinary competition between the government and the opposition. At least that's how I read it. We're not here because of the differences in political views, we're not here because of the standard opposition criticism of the government. We meet because the government, the cabinet, threatens the very foundations of our country's operation. It threatens our future, endangers citizens' faith in the rule of law. This government has indeed reached a sad primate. She suddenly managed to put three pillars of a functioning decent state in jeopardy. Justice, future prosperity and the ability to rule. This government, although ruling at a time of economic growth, is unable to manage reasonably and drives the country into an inexcusably high government deficit. Even though she pulled nearly 20 billion out of a fund that could have served, for example, to launch a pension reform. [[11.00 hours]] This government rules in a way that it doesn't actually rule. We have a report from the Supreme Audit Office, which is a long list of unfulfilled government promises, omissions and failures. I say for myself, it's a very unhappy reading. And this government has a prime minister who is facing not only criminal prosecution and colossal conflict of interest, but also suspicions that he is using his power to avoid a fair trial. And the law here must apply to everyone. The future isn't meant to be eaten, as we are unfortunately witnessing. The government is supposed to rule well, and all of this is at risk here. And we want answers from the government. If there are questions, we want answers. Because, by the way, as Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said, democracy is a debate. Why, then, do we not want to have this debate here? Democracy does not rule, but it corrects, even those are the words of the first president. And democracy lies in morality. So let us discuss, correct, seek morality and the common good, because I am convinced that this is the goal and duty of all of us, regardless of what benches and political shirts we are sitting in here. As Members, we are fully aware of our joint responsibility not only for the current but also for the future development of the Czech Republic. We take it seriously, expecting it from us, the entire House, and all fellow citizens. There are clear relations within the division of state power, the government - the executive is responsible for its actions to the House, which expresses its trust. It is therefore quite logical, and I hope that it is not surprising for government MEPs that the House and especially the opposition want to use their powers and ask the government questions they want to know the answer to. Not for himself, not for us, but for the public who has the right to know why the government is acting, or why the government doesn't act, why the government decides, or why the government doesn't decide. Unfortunately, the only answer to repeatedly asked questions towards the government is silence, refusing to place points repeatedly on the agenda for a proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. For us, this procedure is unacceptable. We reject the government's silence to problems that, for example, are evidently due to the signs of economic stagnation. Unfortunately, the economic cycle here is adamant and hard data from Germany, with which our economy is connected by almost an umbilical cord, is unfavorable. Originally predicted GDP growth in Germany was already reduced to 0.6 in the first quarter of this year, by a full percentage point. So when the government refuses to communicate, you have to ask questions. I would very much like this government to take our challenge seriously and for half a day to have a competent conversation with the opposition, so as not to be afraid to hear critical opinions, to understand that we are involved in a common cause. Unfortunately, I feel that the government is one great ostrich, which only persistently sticks its head in the sand before solving real problems. Trouble that burns the citizens of this country. Yes, unfortunately, this government is a reprieve. In 2015 - one example for all - it was Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who promised to present the strategic framework for pension reform by June 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, today is April 25, 2019, and I ask: where, Prime Minister, where is the strategic framework for pension reform? Let's remember the Prime Minister's graceful journey around the county and his palette of promises to anyone. And the result? The government either promises and doesn't deliver, or when it tries to keep its promises at least a little, it does so at the expense of public debt. You want to give away, but you have no idea where to take it. This is also reflected in the chaotic personnel proceedings, where the country has already the fourth minister in the last nine months. Members and members of this government spin faster in their positions than the apostles on the Prague astronomical clock. Can this really help staff stability as important a resort as the Justice Department? Does this really bring awareness of legal certainty in the Czech Republic? Does this really seem credible to the individual articles of justice? Key reforms are awaited. I would remind one for all - execution, execution order, state's attorney's bill and more. When will we really see them from such a destabilized resort? And here, ladies and gentlemen, it's not some academic debate, it's a settlement of an execution environment that has more than 800,000 people waiting for in execution, it's an adjustment to the system of stopping illegal executions, and I could continue this way. And when MEPs want to come up with a solution, the government defends itself by preparing its own solution. And when he comes with him, the Prime Minister, without the knowledge of the coalition partner, will replace the minister, who, without a scandal and with a great professional erudition and mainly interest and diligence, led the resort. In speculation about other related circumstances, which, in the personal stories of not only the Prime Minister, this government drags its feet like a ball, I will not even let go. If the Prime Minister had run his companies as capable as he runs this government, I believe they would have gone bankrupt by now. In doing so our state is located, and this must also be said, in a relatively very positive period. The results of the last year 2018 showed that the Czech Republic was successful. The period of economic growth was reflected in positive macro-economic data of the State related to growth in gross domestic product, household consumption, decline in unemployment or decline in the share of government debt in GDP. High domestic consumption has been driven by wage growth in the private and public sectors as well as increasing public sector activity. This was reflected in the increase in the revenue of the State, in particular tax revenue, including social security premiums. However, behind these excellent macroeconomic results and state budget results are already long-term systemic obstacles, which will influence the results of the Czech Republic and its competitiveness for the future. The positive results of the 2018 budget do not constitute a guarantee of sound public finances in the long term. And here we can actually look in the report of the Supreme Audit Office, because it clearly and intelligibly points out that current spending is growing and so far the implementation of strategic investment, the implementation of important reforms, which are still more and more in concepts and sometimes in strategic documents, rather than that these reforms are actually being presented and actually implemented. It's logical. How could a government in this state enforce something like this? Just look at the government's agendas. Lupa would need to be looked at in order to find vital government patterns. It is a government of maintenance, it is a government of transposition of European directives, but even on the threshold of the second year of its existence we do not see any major companies expected by legislation and standards. Negative factors include an inefficient way of managing the state and a low performance of government in some areas. In 2018, the National Budget Board also highlighted the government's long-term unsustainableness of public finances, which considers the main risk to be a discrepancy between legislative settings, future demographic developments and delays in pension reform. According to the projection of the population of the Czech Republic, around 2.1 million inhabitants over 65 will live in the Czech Republic in 2020, but in 2030 it is expected to be about 2.4 million inhabitants. In particular, the State has not used the period of economic growth to draw up a budget that is at least balanced and takes into account the principles of the economic cycle. At the same time, there is a high dependence on the implementation of the state budget on economic growth and underestimating the risks of growth in the state's ongoing and/or dictatorial expenditure. The establishment of the budget continues to be affected by inaccuracies with the prevailing underestimating of revenue, but also by non-compliance with expenditure. This was confirmed again by significant differences between the approved budget and the facts. Although state budget revenues increased by almost CZK 270 billion from 2014 to 2018, the planned state budget balance decreased by only CZK 62 billion in these years. In 2018, the difference between the approved budget and the reality reached nearly 53 billion crowns. It can also be negatively assessed that the year-on-year increase in current state budget expenditure of CZK 86.5 billion was higher than the increase in tax revenues of CZK 84.8 billion. This too creates risks to the sustainability of the state budget funds in future years. [[11.10 hours]] Important reforms and strategic objectives aimed, for example, at simplifying taxes, improving tax management towards taxpayers, opening up public rail transport markets, developing road infrastructure, electronising public administration, improving the climate of energy savings, but also in support of small and medium-sized enterprises are being delayed. As an example, in the area of transport infrastructure, the motorway network in 2018 - and it is very well known here, because it is repeatedly mentioned - has been able to extend the motorway network by just four kilometres of new motorways. From the perspective of more efficient tax management towards taxpayers, significant progress has not been made, since the Income Tax Act has not been simplified and companies have to devote significantly more time to fulfilling their tax obligations in the Czech Republic. The government has promised substantial simplification, flat-rate contributions, and today we also learn from the Minister's mouth that these promises do not apply, that they need to be postponed and that maybe next time. And I'm asking what year. In what year and when will these promises actually be fulfilled for our entrepreneurs? The management of the State has not progressed towards good practice even in some other areas related to the level of management and control of the authorities responsible. As a result, state administration in a number of areas is not effective and the fulfilment of the irreplaceable role of the state to meet social needs does not work. It is clear that low performance of public administration limits the overall competitiveness of the Czech Republic. International comparisons also confirm this. According to a regular assessment of the country's competitiveness through the global competitiveness index published by the World Economic Forum, the Czech Republic did nothing wrong in 2018. We've been placed in 29th place from 140 evaluated countries. Her position improved by three positions compared to the previous year. What, however, is important, but what affected competitiveness negatively, was the performance of the public sector. According to a partial indicator of the performance of the public sector, which is part of the overall index, the Czech Republic took up to 97th place and within the countries of the European Union the 24th position from 28. So what can we sum up from the above mentioned and the government's unreflective report by the Supreme Audit Office? The State has not used the period of economic growth to draw up a budget that is at least balanced and takes into account the principles of the business cycle. Important reforms and strategic objectives are being delayed, for example, to simplify taxes, to make tax management more efficient towards taxpayers, to open markets for public rail transport, to develop road infrastructure, to electronize public administration. And this way, we could go on and on and on. Formalism, failure to fulfil obligations, increasing bureaucracy, inefficient processes, low performance of public administration persist. All this limits the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. Second point, second thing, also very crucial - the state budget. březnový deficit. The March deficit has been the worst result of the state budget since 2012. For example, the budget deficit reflects a noticeable increase in the number of employees paid out of the state budget that occurred without compensating for adequate austerity measures. Employees paid from the state budget are 17,000 more than last year. And this 17,000 just doesn't live anywhere in the vacuum. In total, government spending increased by 13 percent compared to last year, which is an unusually high pace compared to economic growth and budgetary developments in previous years. The revenue increased by only 5% compared to last year's first quarter. So there's a difference of 8 percent. Even so, the government has improved its deficit by passing through, literally and to the letter passing 18 billion from the dissolved National Property Fund. Instead of 28 billion, we are 9 billion, but only for the first quarter of 2019. A sustained increase in mandatorial spending, with the already visible decline in the pace of economic growth, is a path to a dead end, or perhaps rather a way against the wall. It is certainly right to support some key things, such as growth in pensions, at a time of economic growth. We don't criticize the government for adding to seniors, but for doing it unsystemically and essentially giving them money from their grandsons. We all know that the current pension system is long-term unsustainable. Finally, the National Budget Board report noted this. But I'm asking why anyone in the government would be worried about that. The Prime Minister is dealing with completely different matters, and the Commission on Fair Pensions has already announced in advance that it does not have the ambition to come up with a real and necessary pension reform, but will only deal with partial matters. The problems with the financing of social services have finally been discussed here and Mrs Schillerová admits them as well as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs draws attention to them. Social services costs are not covered here. At present social services are already missing 3.1 billion crowns. The missing amount is due, on the one hand, to a partial failure of European resources, the so-called. individual projects, as well as an increase in the surcharge for social services workers on the basis of a change in the government's regulation of December last year and, of course, also a lack of compensation for the increase in basic pay rates, but also increased expenditure in connection with the ongoing reform of psychiatric care. From all regions of the Czech Republic, information goes to us that approved subsidies for the operation of social services are insufficient. Moreover, the problem is not only low subsidies for social services, but also long-term underfunded health care in both residential and field services. Unfortunately, if we add up all these risks, there is a real threat of restrictions on services. Probably in September they'll have to do charity, diaconia, but today even the big providers will start releasing those who are supposed to take care of those who can't take care of themselves. I ask how we will provide services for about one million of our fellow citizens, who cannot take care of themselves and who are intended for the services of large or small providers. Yes, this one million, and I note, with family members it is about 2.5 million inhabitants of the Czech Republic, so these people, who are often bedridden, will not be able to protest before Strakovka, will not be able to protest before Parliament. But that's why we're here to get back to you, to remind you that, unfortunately, the government is the only thing they've done so far and can do is hand out money without any concept. We probably don't need pension reform, and neither do social services. As a result of the poor financing and errors of this government, there is a total collapse in this crucial area, in social services. I would like to make it clear to all our sick, all our seniors that we as opposition, we as KDU-ČSL do not forget them, unlike this government, and we will do everything we can to get the government to fund social services so that this collapse, which is really threatening here, does not happen. What can I say in conclusion? The Prime Minister was always holed up by him coming to run the state as a company that he came to manage the state to function effectively. This result proves that he couldn't do it. The requirements of the Ministry of Finance to reduce the number of officials by 10 percent and operating savings of the resorts of 50 billion are proof that its officials already suspect that it will be bad. They analyse how the economic forecast is slowly going down and, at the same time, mandatorial spending is constantly rising. It's almost a panic reaction. Yet the government keeps pretending everything's okay, dancing on Titanic, and nothing's happening. Obviously, the state's permanent inability to implement planned investments that could provide us with a competitive advantage for worse times at a time of economic growth. That's the time the government has wasted reprehensibly. Where's the digitization of the state administration? Where's the new transport infrastructure? Where are the next steps that the Supreme Audit Office rightly points out? I would like to call this government left-wing, as has been said here on other occasions, just like my colleagues from the ODS, not only because of its policies and support from the KSČM. Unfortunately, I can't do that. At least the decent left-wing government knows where to get the money for increased spending of the state budget, and it also has a plan for massive public investment. This government has neither one nor the other. Therefore, I have to identify with one of the older passwords of the ANO 2011 movement that Čech are capable of a nation, but it is run by an idiot. Yes, Prime Minister, you were right in this electoral slogan years ago, which is now really showing up. [[11.20 hours]] And in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share one experience with you. You know what I've been dreaming about when I've been sleeping a little bit in the last three weeks? I dream that this country will have a government with a clear strategy and vision that doesn't just throw money away like election gifts and buy voters' votes with the future money of our children. Unfortunately, it's still just a dream. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u7	I will now read the apologies while Mr Ivan Bartoš prepares himself. Vice-President of the House Tomáš Hanzel apologizes until 12.00 hours for medical reasons. He also apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 14:30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. She also apologizes to Mrs Radka Maxová from 10.00 to 11.30 for work reasons. Mr Tomáš Vymazal also apologizes for his personal reasons for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, lastly, I have an apology from Mr Karel Schwarzenberg for today's and tomorrow's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for health reasons. I will now ask Mr Ivan Bartoš to speak and Mr Vít Rakušan will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u8	Good morning, Mr President, three ministers from the Government of Andrej Babiš present, Mr Faltýnek, colleagues. [[Member of the Faltynek forcefully off the microphone: Hello!]] I'd like to perform perhaps with a shorter contribution than my previous speakers. When I need to vent my head a little from the House, I walk home and sometimes walk through the Old Town Square and there is a famous monument to Master Jan Hus, where it is written Love, wish for the truth to everyone. It may be difficult to force Members here to somehow change the dynamics of mutual relations and injustices from past times, but we in the Chamber of Deputies and the people who elect us, the individual parties, the citizens of the Czech Republic, for whom we do politics, would probably deserve the truth. And so I have to say, we often don't get the opportunity to know the answer, the truth. Why is this meeting called today? This meeting today is that the government has a program and maybe it's ticking off, we pushed through this, we approved this, but as soon as there's some, say, event or summary or some independent evaluation or some new legislation that doesn't suit it, in that moment the House somehow locks itself up and points that need to be discussed or found some common solution or need to be explained in the context of questions about ministers, they don't work, they're not included in the House's meetings, they're often answered by some pinched graphs or simply things that have nothing to do with the issue, preferably in the second stage, when the second answer that the MP can't respond to is no longer. I saw this morning when I went to work around 5:30, maybe in the first news, some reaction from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to this meeting, and I saw again the ridicule, the ignorance - I'm going here to D4, you guys do whatever you want. Perhaps then it is appropriate to ask why President Vondráček called the meeting tonight when the Prime Minister was not here, and I think we should probably repeat it when the Prime Minister, who is concerned with all three important points as Prime Minister, is here. Now I will not be going through the SAO's report, although it is very alarming for me there, and it is an important topic for the pirate party before we entered the House, and this is the issue of building apartments, at all the demand for apartments not only so-called social but 150,000 people every year in the Czech Republic are looking for housing that is affordable. It is not just some social cases or people who are seniors or in some material distress or mother, it is simply a number that does not satisfy the Czech market, and the government's actions in this regard are pathetic. After all, the Social Housing Act, which was dropped off the table in the past period, as we learned, will not be there, there will be some kind of investment program. Let's see if we can get this topic up yet. I would like to speak on an important matter, and once again concerns the Prime Minister's person, but not only the Prime Minister, but also Minister Toman. At the beginning I spoke about the quote by Master Jan Hus "wish everyone true" and to those questions that I think are completely valid concerning the conflict of interests of high-ranking politicians, we learn again from the Prime Minister, and it is so typical that he refers to all his opponents, either they did it too - which, fortunately, does not concern us pirát, we are the first parliamentary term in the Chamber of Deputies - or we are simply looking for some culprits, so we are gradually learning - and that Mr Prchal, or who, invented it very cleverly, connect it with the cry of kampaň!, all of them use it in different ways in different memes and it sort of dissects the nature of the problem that we are dealing with here. And the problem is in the long term in the Czech Republic - historically corruption, historically blending business with politics, and therefore giving priority to business interests over the interests of citizens and the Czech Republic, which, at least before that, has been evaluated as, for example, corruption or some unwanted lobbying, unfortunately, since a certain time, and it is not the domain of this parliamentary term, it is somehow becoming a standard. I just have to say, because I often learn from Mr. Babiš in some kind of personal reaction or in the reaction to the president of Jakub Michálek's club, that this is some kind of personal vendetta. I met pan Babiš about a year before the ANO movement was born, he was mapping the political terrain, it was like that period when he was communicating happily with politicians and building his empire, and pirát and I were starting to play politics from the bottom at the moment when there were completely different people who also had their problems. I will not name anyone here in the House, but we have dealt with cases such as Mr Drábek and Mr Šiška and with skarta and corruption scandals of other politicians and abuse of powers, and if he were not Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and someone else were in the same situation, and from the point of view of the conflict of interests of the European Union's financial regulation, for example, Minister Toman, we would simply address the policy that has this problem and pressure him to solve the problem. So much for our motivation. The conflict of interest is undesirable, but Mr Babiš did not have to deal with subsidies policies by entering politics at his post as Minister of Finance, he did not have to deal with the purchase of companies anymore, suddenly he became the politician who also has his business activities or had his business activities, within his holding not only in the Czech Republic but in other countries of the European Union. I just want to show you a graph like that. [[It shows printed material.]] We still don't have a projection screen here. This graph ends in 2017. I learned from Mr. Babiš in a television debate that it was some kind of a lying graph. That's from Agrofert's annual report. This is 2006 and here is 2017 Andrej Babiš in politics. We have 2019 alone. I don't have the chart updated yet, so maybe we can update it somehow. But what happened in the last parliamentary term when the pirát were not yet in the Chamber of Deputies? I have a relatively chronology here, I will only take the critical moments, because we are dealing with one very specific case, which, as I said, concerns the Prime Minister, who unfortunately is not here and cannot speak, but also concerns Minister Toman. I think that such a point, which is often dealt with and talked to in the media, and the Prime Minister refers to it, even people who in some way have his back, are in it 2. 2. 2017. There Mr. Andrej Babiš was 100% owner of the shares of the Agrofert Group, SynBio, then created the two trust funds, where he moved his business activities into those funds, and thus should have solved the conflict of interest, and thus he should have complied with the legislation, which entered into force 9. 2. 2017 and, among other things, this amendment - that is Czech legislation - prohibited a company controlled by a member of the government to obtain subsidies, investment incentives, public procurement. [[11.30 hours]] Here's what Mr. Pirate Senator Lukáš Wagenknecht pointed out. He actually described the way a person imagined in those funds works, how the return of those funds works, when a politician might stop operating in a political regime. And this situation was just here in the previous parliamentary term. According to the Slovak Register of Final Owners - and he is not public in the Czech Republic and the government is resisting it, we also proposed the conditionality of public contracts to companies with which the final owner is not clear, it would be said that it would be excessive bureaucracy to look at the table, who is therefore the final owner in the final - it turned out that Andrej Babiš is still in the position of so-called. the person imaginative, so he's the beneficiary. So much for finding out from the Slovak register of final owners. But we have obtained analyses of European lawyers from Nordic countries, which define this position still in conflict with the existing legislation of the Czech Republic from the previous parliamentary term. It's kind of noisy in here, so I'm gonna raise my voice a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u9	So I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to remain calm so that the chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš can speak calmly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u10	I'm gonna keep going to that end. We're already in 2018. We warned at the beginning of the summer of 2018, that the articles were about to come into force of the European, not of the Czech, but of the European Financial Regulation, which is against conflicts of interest, and we also addressed, for example, the various departments in the Czech Republic, how they will stand up to the fact that this European regulation will start to apply, in which role Prime Minister Babiš will then be. We haven't met much of a response. The answer was that everything was fine from the point of view of the Czech Republic, because there are funds where these things are transferred, and there is no need to deal with it. We are then in 2018 25. 7. they published an analysis which showed that Andrej Babiš is in conflict of interest from the point of view of the European Financial Regulation and must address his situation. Since nothing was going on, we turned to the European Commissioner, I think Transparency International, whose boss was former favorite Andrej Babiš, before he began to mind how Mr Andrej Babiš works in Czech politics, and we turned to Commissioner Oettinger, Hogan and Mrs Creta to deal with this matter with the Czech ministries and to give them a methodology on how to stand up to Mr Toman, who, according to another graph, is, and I am talking about this European regulation, actually in the conflict because of the members of their family who are doing business in areas where European subsidies are being redistributed. And so the answer was that the European Commission, respectively. the individual Commissioners will deal with this and therefore give some methodology, if any. carry out investigations. I met Mrs. Creta 6. 9. 2019. I say the data because we often learn from the Prime Minister that because it's Easter, it's up to him because he can't deal with it. Because it's Christmas, it's time, and because it's this election and it's this election, it's all a campaign for the euro elections. In fact, we started to deal with this issue in the seventh month of 2018, and since then, Mrs Cretu has been involved in control, and we have actually almost a year before the European elections and still here, I do not know why, there is no need for any expression other than that of the ministries and it was not about the European Financial Regulation, but we do not have the results of the European Commission's investigation. I met with Mrs Creta in Prague and they promised that the results of this would be available in January. Otherwise, we have a number of documents. I've got a stack here, I don't even have to show you. What is probably important is that in the 9th month of 2018, the European Commission received a complaint in connection with the conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš as well as Transparency International. And I'm gonna go on flying around the world, because there's been a lot of these events. We have learned that therefore the European Commission will save the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš and conduct an audit, which does not go beyond that period from the validity of the European regulation, but until the previous period. So the data requested by the Commission from the various departments responsible for the distribution of subsidies concerned that period before the expiry, where there are obviously also doubts. In fact, in the last month of last year, she got public, and I kind of believe that there was some honour fought by those lawyers who work under the European Commission because they have prepared a legal analysis that confirms the conflict of interests of the Czech Prime Minister, and this when they handed it over to the European Commission, she got public. So somewhere since December from the legal department of the European Commission, which is a body that has a total number of employees of about 400, so not everyone is a lawyer, but it is not some legal department of two people who writes ad hoc analyses on order, as it seems to me that sometimes happens in the Czech Republic when someone needs to justify some of their steps. And Commissioner Oettinger has promised against the European Commission and Mrs Creta, who spoke of January, so Commissioner Oettinger has promised that these results of the investigation and the audit will be available in April. I met Mr. Oettinger in Munich at Munich Security Conference, where he confirmed this term. We have learned - in the meantime, the European Parliament may have voted on this, so the clash of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is problematic, with some 447 MEPs voting in favour, including members of the faction where YES is in the European Parliament, including the ALDE faction. So also the European Parliament, which, according to Mr Babiš's statement, is also conspiring and campaigning for him, is also convinced that this is a problem. Last week, a German public television broadcast a ZDF document, so we were newly informed that Germany was conspiring against Mr Babiš, especially because of his harsh anti-immigration policy, which is, among other things, an argument that was also raised here in the House when we wanted to address the European Parliament here, as it voted in connection with a similar situation in which Mr Orbán is in Hungary, which explains to me a little why he understands himself so much on the V4, so he is also not being bullied for a hard anti-immigration policy, but he is being criticized for redistributing European money in a way that is not transparent in Hungary and which is simply recording certain groups of entrepreneurs, perhaps not directly to Mr Orbán, but at least close to Mr Orbán. So the European Parliament voted on this, and the ZDF broadcasts information on it, and Mr Oettinger, at a secret meeting, which is not quite the custom, was not public access, but the information was, of course, almost on the air, published by some Members, and we learned that the deadline for the results to be sent, not published, to the Czech Government is May 15th, which would not be a problem in itself, is approaching European elections. I think that Mr Babiš, who himself says how transparent it is and how it is all a campaign, has an amazing possibility that, according to his expectations, perhaps a positive result to push as much as possible before the elections to show that Germany, that the Members, that the media, that the independent institutions that audit, that the European Commission, that Mrs Grässle, that Mrs Cretu, that Mr Oettinger, that Mr Oettinger, therefore, is running the campaign on him, as he says, so we probably wanted to give Mr Babiš that opportunity in some way with the results that I hope will be sent to it on 15 May, perhaps they will be sent, so that we could somehow get to know the public before the elections and show how it is from the perspective of the European Financial Regulation. So there's a little trick, I'd say. The results of the audit and, in fact, the conclusion of the European Commission's inquiry will be private, given to the government. The government has two months to comment on this outcome of the investigation to the European Commission. That gives us time sometime until June, July. The new European Parliament will be elected, the European Commission will be set up, and the situation where the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is in conflict of interest, according to the European Commission's lawyers, we have stopped paying subsidies to Agrofert from the EU, not that the subsidies will not go on from our national sources, so it will take at least this time to make a decision. That is why, on the basis of this statement by Commissioner Oettinger, who was criticized by European Members for this lax procedure, and we had to turn again to the European Commission, and if there is no solution in legal terms, we will probably have to go to the European Court of Justice for this inaction, so we wanted the House as an institution that controls the government and, as a government, to send a signal to the European Commission, if so. We have agreed with the government that the results, if possible, will be published by both the European Commission and the government as soon as they receive them, or will process the answer so quickly that it will actually happen in the original composition of the European Parliament, so that citizens and politicians, opposition politicians, politicians of the government coalition simply see what it really is. That was in my introduction. Wish everyone the truth. This point has not been included. So we learned that this is all a campaign again. So we also wanted to propose a resolution that would be in this direction, we would ask the European Commission. [[11.40 hours]] And it is not true that our Minister, or our Prime Minister, does not have a vote within Europe. I mean, he's telling us how he's pushing and affecting these things. Thus, in particular, when it is needed against the ceiling of the subsidies on which it benefits itself, or Agrofert holding benefits from this. We will still be in the rhetoric before the decision, although I have the report of European lawyers here in the photocopy. If you'd like to see what the message says, I'd be happy to give it to you or e-mail it to you. So we wanted the House to discuss this. And this clear signal, which is in the interests of Members as well as the Government, and the Prime Minister, has sent to the European Commission and has followed the way of publishing the results of this audit as soon as possible. This item was not included in the House meeting. It is one of the three important points that is at the meeting of today's extraordinary meeting, which the Prime Minister is not at. And I beg you to allow this meeting to begin with the approved agenda, and let us talk about the resolution, because I think it is in everyone's interests. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u11	I will now read one apology and, in the meantime, Mr Vít Rakušan will be prepared. Respectfully revision of the apology. Mr Tomáš Vymazal cancels his apology, which he had for personal reasons throughout the day, and Mr Tomáš Vymazal is already here. Mr. Vít Rakušan will now be given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary of the Government of the Czech Republic, so we thank you, at least, for making time for us in a busy programme and listening to what is clearly and in any case boring you. These are simply the words of the Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the body that expressed confidence in your government. Of course, we as STAN support the approval of the agenda for today's meeting, and we wanted to ask all Members to do so. And the reason is simple. We often see the faces of opposition MEPs and government politicians on our backs, who often talk about our opposition policy being guided by personnel, that we are conducting a simple anti-Babish policy, and we are simply talking about how this government is not satisfactory, it is personal attacks. Today we have an extraordinary but truly extraordinary opportunity not to entertain in person, not to have fun in person. There is a report from the SAO, there are facts on the table about how the Czech state works or does not work, and the government of the Czech Republic, government MPs, coalition MPs, have a unique opportunity to enter the discussion with us and convince us that the facts are different, that the SAO report does not really describe the reality of the state of the Czech Republic. Please allow this discussion, allow it in the Chamber of Deputies, which has expressed confidence in your government. Prime Minister Babiš here spoke about the fact that this is a report and that the SAO should focus on numbers and should not deal with things in which the Czech Republic works or does not work. But it is not some report, it is a report very detailed, which in one of its paragraphs characterizes the Czech Republic so that it is a skirted state. A state that doesn't evolve, a state that stagnates. A state that has 150 government concepts and strategies, but a state that lacks vision. A vision of long-term development and ambition to realize that vision. What are the individual taxes of the whole description of the Czech Republic at present. Digital administration, a digital state that the ANO movement spoke so vehemently about in all election campaigns. So the Digital Service Act, as you know, is not proposed by the government, but it is a proposal from representatives of the MPs. Tax obligations, when the government reduces one year of tax, the other increases and gives a great degree of uncertainty to all in the Czech Republic who pay taxes. We solve problems such as navigating the Danube - Elbe - Odra, but we still lack a clear energy concept of our state, we still haven't figured out whether or not we're going to be building blocks of nuclear power plants and how our state will be energy-sustaining in the future. For five years, the ANO movement had one Minister of Transport, a record player in his department. The rekordman, who was surprised by snow this winter. Construction law - Madam Secretary is currently present. A clear responsibility of the YES movement. At a time of extraordinary economic boom, which was given general prosperity in European and global space, it was not built in the Czech Republic. Construction laws are so complex that it simply made it impossible for private individuals, cities, municipalities, developers of the Czech Republic to develop further. That's the responsibility of the YES movement. For five years, the minister of this movement ruled this resort. They have submitted recodification of building laws that are not working, they have rejected any amendments, and now they promise us that in five years they will present a completely new legal framework and suddenly they will be built in the Czech Republic. In certain sections, the SAO praises the state, admits that the economic situation is improving, unemployment has fallen, wages are rising. But in the second breath he adds that people do not receive adequate services for their taxes - for their taxes - in the Czech Republic. We are in the 24th position of public sector performance within the European Union. Within the European Union, we are in a 26th position from all Member States in the time-consuming exercise of tax obligations towards the State. Is that really enough for us? Isn't the Czech Government's ambition really higher than being in the last third of all European Union states in fulfilling the fundamental obligations of the state? We have identified five areas that we consider to be absolutely essential to the future for the Czech Republic. The first reform of the education system. What does the SAO say about that? Targets are not set, the long-term horizon of Czech education is not set. Therefore, it is not possible to evaluate from the position of the SAO whether Czech education is developing as it should. Because we don't have a clear vision and goals. The innovation of the state administration, where digitization lags, when, for example, in Estonia, they can file tax returns four times faster than in the Czech Republic, has already been discussed here by my previous speakers. Innovation of the social system. All of us who come from the communal sphere here know that the social system, such as the social housing system, simply does not work in the Czech Republic. We're still dealing with the problem here that we haven't defined what social housing is, who's supposed to finance it, who's responsible for it, and what's leading to it. Families with young children live in the Czech Republic to an unprecedented extent still in hostels. Our state's environmental policy. Measures and objectives in the field of air quality and energy savings cannot be met. And we, as STAN, want to reiterate the resolutions that we have made once before, that we call on the Government of the Czech Republic to present to the Chamber a concrete plan for future urgent steps leading to the prevention of excessive water and wind erosion of soil and to reduce its quality and to prevent the deterioration of the quality of both groundwater and surface water. We're dealing with partial problems here. This government is a government of micromanagement, a solution to small partial problems that are often not solved effectively, but not a vision. We do not deal with things such as the drought problem, which will reach the Czech Republic to an enormous extent, because many municipalities are not connected to infrastructure. We deal with trivialities instead of dealing with the viability of our country for years to come. The state is not supposed to follow as a company, as the Prime Minister has called us for a long time. The state is supposed to run like a state. It is a very complex mechanism, which simply requires an approach that does not contain the fact that we select a few people that we nominate to the government, we call them experts, it turns out that they are not such experts. But it requires strategic decision-making and visionary perspective. And the vision of this government clearly lacks. [[11.50 hours]] Of course, we also support the European Commission's request to publish the conclusion of the investigation into the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. And please, let's avoid all the arguments that this might somehow affect some of the choices that are now coming. If there is a conflict of interest, I think that Parliament of the Czech Republic should have the right to be familiar with it. Known as soon as possible. And I think that the European Commission would also be willing to reflect this resolution if this resolution was approved. As for the imminent deficit of the state budget, Minister Schillerová has told us several times that the 18 billion crowns taken from the privatisation account will not be eaten, that they will be used conceptually and that there will be no holes in the state budget. What's going on now? It is these 18 billion holes that are being used, because otherwise, of course, the promised maximum deficit of CZK 40 billion could not be fulfilled. We currently have the worst development of the state budget deficit since 2012. We have problems with VAT stagnation. The situation is alarming. And it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that the Minister of Finance should come before the Chamber of Deputies and try to explain these problems. It has a unique opportunity today if its Members approve the agenda for today's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again to allow all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, not only those who have the privilege of priority rights, regardless of your party membership, because democracy is precisely based on the debate. Please show at least once that you are interested in the views of the opposition, and show this over a subject which is factual, not political, over the facts presented by the Supreme Audit Office, and show that you can defend your work and that direct confrontation with the arguments of your political opponents is not afraid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u13	Well, thank you. I'm gonna ask for a replacement now, because I'm next in line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u14	Now with priority rights, President Okamura. After him, Vice-President of the House of Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the SPD, the draft state budget has been criticised. And I could quote a lot of predictions that have come true. We made it clear that the government of Andrej Babiš with ČSSD and KSČM promised people impossible and completely unrealistic things. A lot of people didn't believe it last year, but now it's showing up in full nudity. The government has big budget problems and cannot fulfill the promises it has made to citizens. Of course, we have also warned the government and the media that the economic situation will be worse this year and that the expectations of GDP growth are unrealistic, and this is, of course, a reference to last year's developments in Germany and Western Europe, to which we supply our products. Of course, we have pointed out that other areas, including inflation, etc., will depend on this. Not many have heard of it. On the other hand, we also said out loud that we know that the government will reduce the budget deficit, but not cutbacks, but some artificial accounting operations. True, we had no idea what they were. But since this is the standard trick of this government, we didn't have to wait long - and see. Not even the first quarter went by, and the government helped with the transfer of CZK 18 billion from the privatisation account. Of course, we understand that the government is in a difficult situation. ČSSD, coalition partner of the YES movement, is in front of political and financial collapse and is fighting for bare survival. And marketing for public money is the only thing ČSSD can do. Of course, if we are talking about our eternal theme of supporting political nonprofits, part of the ČSSD has been paying off this sector for years. This, on the one hand, is completely unacceptable, but at the same time dangerous political stupidity, because the café wing of the ČSSD only pays the former TOP 09 voters, who now jumped on pirát like fleas from Mr Schwarzenberg and Kalousek. I won't tire of the budget errors and government management, but let me just remind you that, of course, we can appreciate the lights at the end of the tunnel. For example, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance took over our proposal for flat-rate taxes for small businessmen. Thank you. In any case, despite all the criticism, we know that outbursts in the House will change nothing about the government's actual work. It is only a theatre that has been taught by colleagues from the so-called Theatre. Mr. Kalousek and ODS' demagogic block, which has now been joined by the pirát. No one can ask us to support this strange and harmful group country in any way. We will therefore refrain from proposing the approval of the emergency meeting programme. And we have another topic here, the Supreme Audit Office's findings, the SAO, which repeatedly states both one-off and systemic errors in public money management at all levels and all conceivable areas. At the same time, the Supreme Audit Office not only draws attention to formal shortcomings in the paper, but also to the inefficiency of public money spending, as well as to the lack of internal control. It is an official, indisputable criticism of the activities of the government movement YES, ČSSD and KSČM, and many findings also concern the previous government, where KDU-ČSL was in addition. And let me just remind you that these findings are in the order of billions of Czech crowns, which were spent in a strange or special way and were managed strangely with them. We in the SPD have also drawn attention to these errors in the long term. Even without an extraordinary meeting, we drew the Prime Minister's attention to this issue and the various ministers. Every year, we face the fact that the Supreme Audit Office is making a statement, but the government doesn't give a damn about it. No meeting here in the House can do anything about that. And it's not just the government or the ministers and the officials that's to blame. They just do what they're allowed to do. And if I don't have an enforceable personal responsibility in practice, then there's no real motive for really keeping an eye on efficiency. On the contrary, we know that for most of the parties that have ever been in governments, the government has become a cash cow, from which both parties and sponsors sucked and lobbyists connected. And that's very difficult to change to those government parties, of course. The masters in this field were, and I believe and continue to be, the government's social democrats. But without a doubt, the people and the ODS also reigned in this field. ČSSD members together with ODS are also among the few cases that sometimes the courts have completed and at least somehow punished. The scream of catching a thief is therefore very absurd today, looking at the past of some parties. But we agree that the problem needs to be resolved. However, the solution really lies elsewhere than in this extraordinary meeting. It's in a system setting that doesn't allow you to waste and steal public money. It is necessary to establish a genuinely personal direct responsibility for all the assets and care entrusted to the proper economic operator and to enforce this obligation. The bill from the SPD pen, which deals with the situation in this way, has been here in the House for a year, and the year cannot go further because it is being pushed by other political parties somewhere so that it does not pass. If the Supreme Audit Office complains that its controls actually have no effect, then it is necessary to discuss how to improve this system. Like the legal obligation of the government, the ministry or the authorities, the negative result of the control to address and draw tangible consequences from it. If you, dear colleagues, care about the SAO's reports, let us sit down in the Economic Committee and prepare such legislation. The third issue of this proposal for an extraordinary meeting is also really very interesting. It is a conflict of interest for politicians in this House. I can't stop for example. Mr. Bartoš, President of the pirát. Let me paraphrase. We were forced to turn to individual European Union Commissioners, who had a matter in their minds, and the investigation began. With regard to conflict of interest, we have Czech laws and decisions about who is in conflict of interest is in our competence. Going to Brussels because I failed at home is humanly disgusting. And we know from history that it is deadly to the Czech Republic - [[The microphone was turned off.]] I am therefore strongly opposed to having my microphone turned off. Well, that really is a bit of an unprecedented situation, but I believe it wasn't on purpose. [[with a smile]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u16	There's no way this was on purpose, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry. [[He's laughing.]] Please continue. Microphone's working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u17	So going to Brussels, because I failed at home, I find it humanly disgusting. And we know from history that it is deadly to Czech sovereignty. Each time the Čech and Moravan quarreled and sought out judges outside their country, it ended with the fact that the arbitrator, the Roman emperor, used it to weaken the sovereignty, freedoms and rights of the countries of the Czech Crown. Once again, the case of Andrej Babiš shows us the harmfulness of European subsidies. Not only do they generally lead to corruption, crime and abuse, but they serve to blackmail our country and control internal and foreign policy. Moreover, the analyses available to us, ladies and gentlemen, show a cruel fact: the Czech Republic is not and has never been any net recipient of money from the European Union. That's a huge and shameful lie. It's even the other way around. According to the world-famous French economist Thomas Piketty, the Czech Republic is among the countries to which membership of the European Union pays off least of all. Previously, our finalising economy, the economy of the Czech Republic, has become an economy of complementary, sub-contracting and backup space for the German economy after joining the European Union. Unfortunately, this area of our current economy is characterised by the European Union's high share of foreign ownership in all the decisive spheres, very cheap labour, very low wages, and therefore a very high share of profit in added value and an extremely high and illegal departure of profits from the country. According to official Eurostat statistics, which is the European Statistical Office, between 2010 and 2016, 7,6 percent of our gross domestic product, GDP, i.e. 2 252 billion, was diverted from the Czech Republic on dividends by multinational corporations. Crowns. On the other hand, and this really needs to be compared well, in the form of European subsidies, only 1.9 percent of GDP has returned to us over the same period. So you need to see these numbers clearly. But the costs of the European Union are even higher. Somehow, Brusselsists forget to tell us that, for example, we are losing billions for customs, which is now being collected by Brussels and which was once the income of the Czech Republic, that we are paying for co-financing projects, thousands of officials who are doing the European Union agenda, and so on. What kind of co-financing of projects? For example, the famous lookout towers in the valley of Moravia. Just to drain the European Union's money, they spent their money on the lookouts that are in the valley, which means they're nowhere to be seen. Moreover, these projects had to be co-financed by Czech taxpayers' money. And there are many such projects. This also involves another outrageous lie that we will not be able to defend our interests in the Union without membership of the European Union. That is, in practice, a thousand times a perverted lie, because with 21 Czech MEPs, our country has never had or had any influence. A member of the European Commission is even forbidden by contract to defend the interests of its mother state, but must defend the interests of the European Union as a whole. The fact is, however, that the current MEPs and Commissioner Jourová do not really defend Czech interests for the ANO movement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty in this House to defend the interests of the Czech Republic. It is really to debate which political forces defend them and which, on the contrary, permanently harm the Czech Republic. The debate would finally be beneficial because the public would at least know who defends whose interests. I do not mind if a faction in the European Parliament, which is part of the ODS, is the head of a Muslim. But it is good to say that, in order to know that when we vote on the ban on promoting Islam in the Czech Republic, the ODS must vote and decide between two interests: the boss in Brussels, or the interests of Czech citizens and their security from hateful ideologies. And as you know, the proposal to ban the promotion of Islamic ideology, this bill from the SPD pen, has been here for a year as well as the ban on cover-up. I know about Mr. Hamáček and his membership at the Aspen Institute. But we have a conflict of interest. pan Rockefeller, the Czech Republic and its citizens. So you see, when the so-called demagogy block here opens up a topic of conflict of interest, that the subject is really deeper and needs to be conceived more comprehensively: who, where and how. In the case of Mr. Babiš, everything is clear. It operates and takes out the subsidies that the European Union allows it to take. It is, of course, a great evil that destroys us. The distortion of the market and the bribery of European subsidies are primarily the responsibility of the European Union's policy. The subsidies for the chosen ones are harmful in themselves. If they're still abused, it's an absolute outrage. In the share of reported irregularities of fraudulent nature in relation to subsidies, the Czech Republic in the European Union is even fourth to Slovakia, Italy and Latvia. While each second recommendation of OLAF, this European office, ends in court throughout the European Union, it is only one third in the Czech Republic in the reference period, namely exactly two out of six. What does that mean? In fact, only a minimum of fraudulent subsidies will reach the police and the court in the Czech Republic. Although colleagues from ODS and ČSSD already know that sometimes the cold falls on stone and some of their politicians are condemned. But I'm sure they'll take it as a necessary tax. After all, subsidies can be paid so well in both national and municipal politics. However, more than a percentage of subsidies where fraud was proven would be more interesting to publish a percentage of those that had some significance. What's with all the golf courses, the luxury guesthouses and the lookout towers in the valley? What is the result of the overwhelming majority of ordinary working Czech citizens? I think the bike's on paper. But if there's only a few skiers riding it on the weekend, then it's wasted money, and the community could fix the pavement for this part of the budget, improve public lighting, maybe reconstruct a retirement home or buy something for their local school. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the conflict of interest that everyone here has is a good topic for a meeting. But it is certainly not just a problem and the Prime Minister's topic, but also politicians of many other parties here in the House. I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion: stop arguing and squabbling here. Citizens are waiting for us to improve their lives and to have more justice and security. The SPD movement has passed a number of important laws to the House that are waiting to be discussed here and for which citizens want them to live better. I'll briefly recapitulate them. We passed the law to help people in debt traps. They're hundreds of thousands of citizens. We want citizens to be able to pay the principal by law first, that is, debt, and then only fees and costs. Now it's the other way around, so citizens can never get out of that debt trap. Plus, in that law, we're canceling interest on interest. It is precisely because interest rates are paid and fees must first be paid instead of principal that is why hundreds of thousands of citizens cannot get out of debt traps. And I am asking you to support this law of ours and put it on the agenda of the meeting to discuss it so that we can help those hundreds of thousands of people, because the government of the ANO, CSSD and KSČM movement has not submitted any such law. Next we have our law from the SPD pen, which ends with usury. We're proposing that interest rates, the so-called RPSN, be put down on loans. This law applies in most countries of the European Union. I have already proposed it in the last parliamentary term, and then the government of the ANO, CSSD and KDU-ČSL rejected it to me. You've thrown more and more tens of thousands of people into debt traps. So I'm asking you to stop squabbling and arguing with each other. Let's work, let's adopt these necessary laws. Because, of course, if we don't get loan shark interest, a lot less people can fall into a debt trap. So I'm asking you, this bill is inserted from the SPD pen. Let's do it! Furthermore, we are co-chairmen of the law, which tightens the punishments for animal cruelty and against illegal reproductions. It's been here for a year. So please, let's just help not to abuse animals. Let's discuss this instead of these constant mutual invectives you're showing each other. Here we have the SPD Copyright Act where we cancel charges, so-called copyright fees, OSA, etc., for establishments, health facilities, hairdressers, car service, restaurants, shops and so on. We'd relieve hundreds of thousands of businessmen. So let's discuss our proposal from the SPD, so we can relieve the businessmen, so they don't have to pay these fees where music production isn't targeted. The goal of profit is not music production. That's the point of our proposal. [[12.10 hours]] In addition, for a year now, our proposal from the SPD is based on the direct choice and appeal of politicians. First of all, we suggest it for the mayors and the captains. This is also true in the surrounding countries. This is true in Germany, Poland, Slovakia, the United States, Switzerland, many countries. And that's where the rebuttal of politicians comes in. You're always squabbling around and attacking each other. If the rebuttal of the politicians that we are proposing was valid, the citizen could have already solved it and expressed it in a referendum, even in the locals, whether he wanted the Prime Minister or not, and we should have solved it. That means it's here, and it's been here for a year. We have a referendum law here. That's what I've been trying to do for years, and we still can't come up with a proposal that would leave the Chamber of Deputies. So I challenge you, let's finally discuss this and let's work. Here's our design from the SPD pen next. It's a proposal to ban Islamic cover because it's not normal that we don't see someone's face. This law applies in Austria, Denmark and many other world countries. We handed him over last year and here he is again. Instead, you're fighting here. We also have a bill to ban the promotion of hate ideologies. Of course, I mean Islamic. See how this is an increasingly current topic in the whole world, and again, it's here in the House, and instead, there are some meetings where only people are squabbling live. We also have here our key proposal - I have already mentioned this in my speech - on the direct substantive responsibility of politicians and all those in executive management with public money. I mean the captains, the ministers and others. Direct material responsibility. They have waitresses, they have waiters, they have company managers, they have directors, even state organizations, school directors, senior home directors. And why can't the governor, the minister, and other people directly run the public billions? And precisely because you reject this proposal, it is the most important anti-corruption proposal, so that is why we are here over and over again discussing the reports of the Supreme Audit Office, which is also the topic of today's meeting. Indeed, it is amazing that some parties to the so-called demagogical block are blocking this proposal and, at the same time, are talking about some findings of the Supreme Audit Office. Well, let's accept the SPD proposal on the direct substantive responsibility of all those who manage public money, and then, of course, corruption will be resolved quite quickly. Because if everyone pays for it out of their pockets, it's two dimensions. First, he'll be afraid to steal, and second, the less capable will not even go into that position. They're gonna turn her down on their own. That means, if Mr. Stropnický was here, who was the Minister of Defence, he would reject the Minister of Defence by himself, because he was a political newsman and he didn't know his way around, because if he had signed an army contract that he didn't know his way around because he didn't know his way around, he would've gotten himself into it if it was overpriced. That's logical. That would also solve political marketers and political nominees. After all, as I've read, the pirát at the Prague City Council are doing this. Instead of experts, they put political nominees and teammates in the management of city companies. Well, you originally had the slogan "let us on them" but I already know what that meant. Let us into the trough it meant, didn't it? Next - we are also preparing a draft law for a minimum pension. We'll present that in the near future. So again - let's get to work! Let's work together on these proposals! We want all disabled and old-age pensioners in the Czech Republic, let's not forget the disabled, to be entitled to a minimum decent pension of a gross minimum wage, which today would be a little over CZK 13,000 net for everyone and only from this amount creditworthy, because those pensions up to 13,000 simply cannot be lived for. And there's a lot to forget about disabled pensioners. That's what we're preparing. We're also preparing a law now to nationalize executors. We'll hand him over anytime soon. I really wanted to call you out in the end, please, let's end your constant bickering and attacking each other, let's just sit down and work on these specific laws that will add more money, security and justice to people. It would certainly also be good to make judicial reform so that judges have a time-limited mandate and also a material responsibility, because judgments are waiting here for more than ten years and citizens are really very frustrated, so from this point of view, I am glad that Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek resigned, because he has not proposed anything here at all, and he has refused to cooperate. That means, let's work together, let's work, put an end to the eternal guessing. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u18	Now, with priority rights, Minister Schillerová, President Stanjura, President Bartošek are enrolled. Madam Secretary is next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening patiently since the beginning of the meeting, except for a two-minute pause, I didn't stick my nose out of here so I wouldn't miss anything. But now you have to expect me to have to talk for a long time because I have been listening for a long time, and I also have to react for a long time. So I apologize in advance, but I won't be short this time. As Minister of Finance - this will not surprise you - I will begin with the imminent deficit of the state budget of 2019, one of the proposed points, which was proposed by the opposition, placed it as an emergency meeting point for the Chamber of Deputies, the implementation of the state budget. I will leave aside that I see this as a politically motivated step before the elections to the European Parliament, although I will certainly raise a number of other factual points again. But I have no other explanation for the fact that the discussion at the special meeting is supposed to replace the standard discussion that is to take place on the quarterly treasury budget implementation. I'm gonna put that aside and go to the facts. In a speech that I will dedicate to the implementation of the state budget, I would like to focus on three areas: 1. Yes, we expect a state budget deficit in 2019 because such a budget for 2019 was approved by the Chamber of Deputies. 2. Yes, from the beginning, again according to the approved budget, the funds from the former National Property Fund are part of the revenue. 3. No, drawing conclusions from the first three months of cash flow is not correct. On the contrary, this is greatly distorted, which the Ministry of Finance regularly comments on the results of the monthly cash flow as well as in the said quarterly report on the implementation of the state budget. So, first things first, please. The House approved the state budget for 2019, deficit, with a deficit of 40 billion. Crowns. In recent years we were used to the fact that the economy was rather surprised by more positive results, but last year it started to slow down, actually a little faster, especially as a result of developments, or certainly mainly as a result of the development of Germany. Thus, when combining the approved deficit and the faster cooling of the economy, no one will be surprised that we expect this year's state budget to end in deficit. On the other hand, the slowdown in the economy is not so dramatic, it is still a decent growth, and it guarantees that the Czech economy will converge on the advanced countries of the European Union. The dynamics of the Czech economy are still growing more than twice as fast as that of the eurozone countries. This also does not mean that revenue is not enough for budgeted expenditure. The conclusion of the Ministry of Finance on economic development and expectations, including the forecast of revenue, has been confirmed - let me remind you - by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. He found both forecasts to be realistic by a clear qualified majority. Now, let me say a few words, from my previous speakers, to the alleged dissolution of reserves from the proceeds of privatization. The eating, as it sounded, etcetera. I'm not gonna repeat those terms again. Let me remind you - and I say it again and again - I have heard it here since the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund was under discussion - that the involvement of these funds from the proceeds of privatisations that are currently formed - beware! - are now made up of most of the dividends of ČEZ and other state-owned enterprises, but most of them are dividends of CEZ, the state budget has been approved by the State Budget Act for 2019. It was approved by this Chamber of Deputies. That's why I really, really think it's smiling that we're now acting like it's happened as some sudden surprise. I couldn't possibly afford something like that as Treasury Secretary. So I strongly oppose the demagogy, the outrageous demagogy, any dissolution of reserves! [[12.20 hours]] The possibility of transferring funds from the proceeds of privatisation to the state budget was enacted, please listen carefully, in 2012. An average of 9 billion were transferred to the budget each year. Also in 2007, the government invested from this account in areas unrelated to privatisation, in particular the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure 21 billion, and later it was even 34 billion. And all of this, under the governments of the opposition, of the right-wing governments, was done outside the state budget, that is, without any possibility for the Chamber of Deputies to influence these expenses. The legal purpose of this special account has never been to make reserves for worse times, which we can only now use to say. If anyone still thinks so, why didn't they call you back much sooner? For example, in 2002, when the income of this account was 130 billion. and expenses 120 billion. Or in 2005, when income reached 110 billion. and expenses 60 billion. and when it was really income from privatised assets at that time, not only dividends from the State's equity interests as in this year. Not even 40 billion. for expenses of 36 billion. certainly was not negligible in 2008. To speak today, when these revenues are essentially limited to one year from the year of CEZ's declining dividend and account for about one tenth of the revenue from 2002 or 2005 and not even half of 2008, the state's reserves are, don't be mad at me, now I'm very polite, an argument drawn to the hair. The only objective of this proposed amendment, approved by this Chamber of Deputies, is that funds which will not be used to cover privatisation expenses can be used meaningfully for investment or social needs according to the current state of the economy. This process is transparent and controllable as it is subject to standard processes applied in the establishment and approval of the state budget. Now allow a few words on the implementation of the state budget for the first three months of 2019. The growth in total expenditures so far affects not only government priorities, such as regional education growth, income growth or investment growth, but also forward spending at the beginning of this year. One of them is for example. the contribution of own resources to the budget of the European Union, which is 7 billion higher year on year, because we are getting richer. We are rich, we are taking away more, even though we are still a net beneficiary, so we are still actually drawing more from the European Union than we are taking away. The European Commission has requested that all Member States pay 40 per cent of the annual levy in the first months of this year to cover expenditure on the common agricultural policy, structural and cohesion policy in the event of an uncontrolled UK exit from the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u20	Madam Secretary, I understand. I ask my colleagues in the room to remain calm so that we can hear the Minister's answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just taking advantage of the fact that I was given the space, as one of my previous speakers said, that I had a historic moment to explain. So I'm trying to be able to really explain it to you. As well as irregular transfers to state funds, another reason why they were taking off. In particular, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure are nearly 12 billion higher year on year. Crowns. Or, by 31 March, 45 per cent of the total annual budgeted amount of capital expenditure was already paid to the local authorities. The budgeted expenditure growth for this year compared to 2018 is 8,4%. It is therefore clear that the current 13 percent increase in expenditure will slow down in the rest of the year. A separate chapter is the European Union's resources, the impact of which is equally high in the approved budget on both the revenue and expenditure side, i.e. neutral to the balance of management. The reality, however, is different. The Union's budget appropriations have been affected negatively by the current implementation of the budget of around 5 billion, while there was a positive impact plus 24 billion over the same period of 2018. On the revenue side, as I have already said, there is a slight slowdown in economic development, but also a number of one-off factors. For example, for value added tax, although on purely March collection it is clear that there is a better tendency to collect VAT, there are several influences. A smaller number of working days in December last year, which had an impact on VAT collection mainly for services in January this year. Thanks to the control report, the volume of over-deprived deductions that was about 1.2 billion in comparison to the same period last year is constantly decreasing. lower. And why is it falling? The reason for this is nothing more than to meet our long-term objective, where, thanks to the control reports combined with special analytical procedures, the control activity is better targeted only at problematic entities and transactions, which means, in fact, at this stage of the verification, the financial administration detects problems and will hold them back. That's why the big drop. But that was our long-term goal, and that, of course, also has an impact on the cash flow state. The role was also played by a one-off higher payout of excessive deductions in February, it was about 1.2 billion, and in excise taxes a clearly visible drop in collection for tobacco tax, whose annual two-billion-dollar decline is due to the pre-supply of older model tobacco stickers in 2018, but now the trend is starting to balance because the collection of excise duties shows either a positive or a stable return year on year. So it is obvious that it is nothing more than buying these problems, these facts. On the contrary, the important circumstances and the fact is that we are well prepared to slow down the economy. In 2018, there are only two EU countries that have reached a smaller government debt and a higher surplus than the Czech Republic. Moreover, in our case, all the components of public budgets have contributed fairly evenly to its size. We have extremely low unemployment, which has been the lowest in the European Union for several years, and at the same time the low inflation environment. The economy is even balanced from the point of view of external relations, which, in itself, for at least the nearest period, does not put pressure on the exchange rate correction in terms of the economy's fundamentals. Monetary policy has also operated through monetary policy interest rates that provide room for its continued operation for several years in the standard regime. At the same time, we have strengthened the robustness of domestic demand, especially household consumption and investment, including government investment. Again, with the privatisation account, any changes made are clearly in favour of transparency in the management of public funds. They allow full control of the Chamber of Deputies, no transparent payments in the hundreds of billions of crowns outside budget funds. And the argument of making reserves is quite odd. With regard to the assessment of the treasury implementation of the state budget for the first quarter, it is very soon to draw any conclusions, regardless of the fact that there are a number of factors on both the revenue and expenditure side that are one-off and very likely to fade away by the end of the year, or maybe mitigate. And now, please allow me to freely follow up and also comment on the Annual Report of the Supreme Audit Office, which is also proposed as the subject of this extraordinary meeting. And here I am going to express myself comprehensively, which means on behalf of our entire government. As long as it's a little quiet in here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! Madam Secretary will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will comment on a report in which our state is presented as a skirted, inefficient and essentially dysfunctional. I will therefore try to be somewhat less expressive than this report. Although I must admit at the outset that from the abbreviations accompanying the publication of this document, I originally thought for a while that this was an assessment of a state other than ours. Because - forgive me for thinking about this - how can a skirted state whose economy is growing significantly above the average rate in Europe? He has almost the lowest unemployment rate. People grow record earnings. He has top health care, builds the most motorways in his history, and where entrepreneurs grow. And pensions? In 2019 alone, senior citizens have improved by more than five years prior to the right-wing governments combined. Yeah, self-critically admit that the state administration has a lot of mistakes. But it is our government that is trying to correct them and is aware of the shortcomings that we all have to face. Moreover, the Supreme Audit Office in its report admits that we have inherited a lot of current shortcomings in the state administration from previous governments. And now we are looking at the attempt to exploit this report as some unflattering testimony to our government, which I would allow, but I completely refuse. Unless we want to pretend that no one else has ruled here in the previous years. And the SAO's only been investigating for the last two years. For example, the annual report does not take into account the budgetary responsibility reform carried out when assessing our finances. It is because of it that our public finances are now healthier, more than ever. For example, last year the Czech Republic reached the second largest surplus of public finances in history, amounting to almost 48 billion. Crowns. And debt has fallen to a level before the economic crisis. The debt of our public finances is one of the lowest in the EU relative to GDP and is constantly falling. Unfortunately, the SAO report, and I am most sorry, does not contain any constructive recommendations to correct possible errors. Instead, it creates space for media misinterpretation. For example, it states that central purchases of the state are inefficient and ineffective, but it does not mention which purchases or reasons why. Then what good is such a message? The fact that this government launched the first historically combined purchases of drugs and materials in hospitals prefers not to mention the SAO at all. Or information that compliance with tax obligations will take the average company 230 hours a year, but not to mention that compared to 2017, it is an improvement of 6 hours. Despite the fact that we were after the effective introduction of the control report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, and gentlemen, please keep it down! Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In the past few years, the Ministry of Finance has implemented the key measures necessary to ensure proper and fair collection of existing taxes. Although these measures represented a partial increase in the administrative burden, they were able to achieve a reduction in the administration associated with the payment of taxes through gradual electronisation or simplification of tax forms. This is illustrated by the latest World Bank study Doing Business. The part of Paying Taxis referred to by the NKÚ comes out of it, but it looks at the world with the eyes of one moment. He forgets how the Czech Republic has improved because in this indicator we have moved to the best quarter. And that, unfortunately, is the SAO's report in its entirety. However, further significant improvements in both the reduction of administration and the reduction of the tax burden are the ambition of the Ministry of Finance in the coming years. This goal will be achieved both by My Tax project, which will bring a simpler and more transparent tax system, will expand electronic communication and make the work of the Financial Administration more effective, but also by the positive fiscal impacts of the already implemented measures. I would remind you that between 2013 and 2018, total tax revenues increased by more than 450 billion. CZK, but as a result there was a reduction - because we could afford it - of the tax burden of 100 billion. The SAO also criticizes the Ministry of Transport for the lack of prioritization of infrastructure construction. This is a popular song by the SAO, which probably does not know that the government has its priorities for the development of transport infrastructure clearly set out in the transport policy of the Czech Republic for the period 2014 to 2020 with a view to 2050. Therefore, it is clear that the government has investors for building preparation, e.g. S.H.I.D. or S.D.C. Moreover, it controls and discusses the entire process almost three times a year. The SAO also criticizes the slow purchase of land for the construction of motorways. Although, just recently, thanks to the initiative of this government and the newly adopted law, buying has accelerated significantly. The SAO is certainly right that the Czech state has slept in this regard. But unfortunately, he's criticizing the government that's trying to fix it as quickly as possible. It is also forgotten that, unfortunately, this report ignores the fact that the government is investing and building on record. In the last four years, despite all the difficulties, the construction of 163 km of new motorways and 106 km of modernization of D1, which is falling apart, has essentially begun again. I understand it's bothering the driver, I'm very sorry, I go there myself every week, if time permits. But you can't build almost a new freeway without complications. In addition to the construction of new motorways and the radical increase in the pace of modernization D1, we started to renovate so-called. The ones that left the previous governments to be misplaced and whose repairs didn't give almost any money. Probably not to bother the driver. In addition, a massive construction of city bypasses began, and we spent about 4 billion each year on reconstruction of their roads. and since 2015 the regions have already received almost 15 billion. The previous governments didn't give them a penny. Is this really not enough? We're dealing with debts of the past that may have been and should have been settled. Like the personnel crisis in health care, which he didn't take into account in the past. I was gonna say cough, but I don't like these general terms. This government came up with the first ever systemic proposal. We gave almost 7 billion to medical schools. CZK for the next 11 years to increase the number of students by 15 percent and raise the salaries for teachers. This government has also focused on effective and transparent funding for health care. We have introduced clear rules for public procurement and return bonuses in hospitals. And once again, for the first time, we've made order in buying expensive equipment and charted their location across the country. We also want to buy them together so that we can save money and direct it to the care of patients. [[12.40 hours]] So far, the Department of Health didn't know how many hospitals were buying drugs for. This is changing with a new database of unit prices that will allow drug purchases to be compared and effectively controlled so that hospitals do not buy at significantly different prices. We have also stopped the opaque allocation of subsidies to regional hospitals on the basis of often political demand and introduced a transparent approval process. Most of the efforts to digitize health care have ended in the past in trouble. However, we launched the first ever functional nationwide project in the field of electronicisation of health care, which received numerous awards from IT experts. We are talking about eRecipe, which is already an established tool and enjoys the great popularity of patients and doctors. I use it myself, I confirm. At the same time, the SAO criticizes the state for insufficient support for development, research and innovation. I dare say that to discover in 2013, that between 2014 and 2016, the system of evaluation of our science was based on quantitative and not qualitative parameters, it is worth something to us as an analysis of the reasons why Slavia did not win the football league five years ago, seasoned with a recommendation on what it should do to improve in the coming years. The evaluation and funding of science was indeed a long time tied to the number of articles, which led to a completely distorted view of our research. The situation has gone so far that thanks to the so-called coffeejack, the Academy of Sciences, which the then rulers of our research had already discussed, was almost wiped out. Therefore, a completely new M17+ methodology began to be prepared in 2015, which changes the evaluation parameters and clearly points to quality, and in 2018 we finally started implementing it. The SAO's information on lower innovation performance and its comparison with 2010 is equally valuable. So, while our best researchers are preparing an innovation strategy of 2019 to 2030, which we do without the usual cost to different pseudo-agencies and which reaps respect in Israel, the US or Germany, the SAO's team of experts summarizes the three-year-old problems of our innovative environment. And I certainly don't understand how the SAO can criticize our government for not adopting the social housing law again. Firstly, such an assessment is not his at all, and secondly, our government has decided to go the way of a faster and more effective solution to this problem through the Construction Programme. However, it solves both social housing for the most needed and affordable rental housing for all residents, because we want to solve this problem comprehensively. As a result, up to 2,000 could be built annually in municipalities. social and affordable apartments. This year we have allocated 1 billion, in the following years we expect about 3 billion. per year. I never questioned the need of the Supreme Audit Office for State Activity. It is very important, but it should perform within its legal competence and submit an assessment that the government could actually use and learn from it. Our government would welcome it, too, because we all make mistakes sometimes, but we just need to know what it is. I'm going to demonstrate this beautifully to you on the example of the Ministry of Defense. On the one hand, the SAO praises for conceptual activities and good management, criticizing the army with its second breath, for example, for a number of assets. However, the auditors do not realise the broader context, and the fact that the security situation and numbers of soldiers have changed over the last few years. It's completely misleading to refer to the White Book of Defense. This was created during the ODS government in 2011 in a time of severe cuts and is simply no longer up to date today. The Ministry of Defence warned the SAO in vain that the army was following new strategic documents such as long-term prospects or construction concepts. We're eight years away, we're putting almost double the money into defense, the numbers of soldiers and backups have gone up by thousands. This also requires training and accommodation capacities. Getting rid of property is very easy, but getting it back is much harder and, of course, especially the controllers should know that. And I'm not even talking about digitizing the state. According to the SAO, we overslept. I'd say it's exactly the opposite. Our government came up with the concept of Digital Czechia not long after gaining the confidence of this House, already in October 2018. And not long after last December, we were familiar with the government's specific implementation plans, which we finally approved this April. Since this February 2019, we have also linked this digitization concept to the above-ranking programme - the Czech Republic: a country for the future. And that is where we have detailed implementation plans prepared for all the pillars of the government's digitalisation strategy, and we are working exactly as planned to implement them. I have no idea where the Supreme Audit Office has found arguments for its criticism that the government is not committed to digitizing the country when it is one of our priorities. Yes, digitalization may not have gone quite as quickly as we would have imagined, but it is this government, which has been representing new digital services since 2018, such as the Portal of Citizens, National Identity, My Tax Portal, eLegislativa or e Collection. We have also launched the digitization of building management, health care and agenda within the office. And there is no doubt that we have done much to digitize our country over the past year, I do not want to remind you that perhaps more than the previous governments combined. And the biggest expansion of online services is expected this year, both in the area of the Portal of the Citizen and in the development of data boxes. The citizen's portal will soon have new features, such as online card or notification. There will also be an opportunity to log in through bank identity and we will also start providing services in the cloud. As far as the construction process is concerned, we are already preparing legislation on the digital technical map and also on the most fundamental legislative change - the right of a citizen to digital services. After the adoption of this law, we commit ourselves to complete digitization within five years and this April our government approved the strengthening of the Digital Czech Republic team as well as the introduction of digital agents to individual authorities to better coordinate digitalization and promote the necessary changes. And let me say a few more words about the crust. [[Jolly in the ranks of members of the YES.]] In previous ministers, despite the growing calamity, almost 32 billion from the Forests of the Czech Republic made their way to the state budget between 2013 and 2018. CZK and up to the current Minister of Agriculture negotiated a zero contribution to the budget so that the state enterprise could invest money in the solution of bark sludge and the restoration of forests. Although the situation deteriorated and an emergency statement was already prepared in 2017 in the worst affected areas, the Ministry's original management did not negotiate anything. The measures that will enable more effectively to combat the barking ground were adopted only thanks to the Members who submitted an amendment to the Forest Law this spring. And now, really, I know I've been talking for a long time. [[Restlessness in the right side of the hall.]] I hope that I have shown in a few examples that the SAO's report very much ignores some fundamental facts and processes that fundamentally change the view of the functioning of our state. We may really live in another country, or we want to live in another country, and that is why we adapt our work to it. But I certainly want to live in a country of modern, free and friendly for a citizen. And believe me, I'm doing my best, just like most of my colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u26	Thank you, Minister. I note that, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs, the originally planned break in the House's meeting between 13.00 and 14.30 will not take place. We'll keep going. On the basis of the agreement of those who have priority rights, we will proceed in the following order: Presidents Kalousek, Stanjura, Bartošek, Vice-President of the House of Pikal. Please, Prime Minister Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u27	Thank you for the deal, I'll be extremely brief. The performance of the Minister of Finance could certainly be lectured at a demagogical college if it existed and would be worth many seminars. I just wanted to define myself against one absolutely outrageous statement, when the Minister turned back, even twice - she said "I am replacing" and then once again "I strongly oppose the claim that reserves have been dissolved." She talked about the $20 billion from the National Property Fund's account to the state budget and argued that in the past this was also happening. Oh, yes, the cannon. It happened in hard times, Madam Secretary, because reserves are called reserves because they touch them when they're ovulating. So when there was a crisis, of course, it was taken from this account to pensions so that it wouldn't hit the most vulnerable. But it never touched them when they were doing well. After all, this is the economic policy described in the Old Testament in the parable of seven fat cows and seven lean cows. Only your government reached into these reserves for the first time even when it had a surplus. You've simply eaten through these reserves even at the time of the surplus. No one's ever done that before. That's a budget crime. Crime to the future. And you can fight it three more times!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. Let me introduce you to my apologies. President Jakub Michálek from 11.30 to the end of the sitting day for business reasons, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček from 13.00 to the end of the sitting day for business reasons and at the same time from tomorrow's meeting for business reasons, President Radim Fiala from 12.30 to the end of the sitting day for business reasons, Mr Jiří Bláha from 13.30 to the end of the sitting day today for business reasons and Mr Jan Řehounek from 13.00 to the end of the sitting day for sudden family reasons. President Stanjura is next, followed by President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The rest of the government, colleagues, my speech will be very brief, because discussing these points without the Prime Minister makes no sense. First, let me ask you a rhetorical question: where is Radek Vondráček? And if he's having a good time watching this meeting. When the Prime Minister is on a long-term planned foreign trip and the President of the House Radek Vondráček convenes an emergency meeting for this date. Mr President, through the Vice-President, are you having a good time? Are you having a good time? Are you pleased that you managed to devalue this action? I'm not having fun! I think that Radek Vondráček, by his every action, proves that he has not grown into the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies and that he is only an ANO movement official who happens to hold the third highest constitutional function in the Czech Republic. I consider the convening of a meeting on a date when the Prime Minister is on a foreign trip to be an outrage by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, I will also be quite brief and I can promise Andrej Babiš that he will not run away from the debate, that he will not hide from it. It doesn't matter that the Propaganda Ministry has been sitting for two hours in the State Acts, and the Minister here has read a masterpiece of the Ministry of Propaganda, a mix of truths, facts, half-truths and spoken lies. I'd have to react almost as long as it was the Secretary's speech to disprove the half-truths and the lies. But I'll keep that for as long as we discuss these points in the presence of the Prime Minister. In recent years, months, weeks and days, we see an attack by the YES movement on the state institutions. We have a big conspiracy here. The police conspired against the Prime Minister. The Home Secretary didn't do anything. The prosecutors conspired against the Prime Minister. Well, the Attorney General has already resigned. I think he should proceed anyway, if the Prime Minister's words are true, the Home Secretary should proceed anyway. Today, we learned from the work of the ANO propaganda ministry that another conspiracy against Andrej Babiš in the government is the Supreme Audit Office. Brussels, German television etc. are added to this. Allegedly because of the anti-immigrant politics of Andrej Babiš. Let me just remind you that the faction of the most pro-immigration in the European Parliament is the faction in which the MEPs of the ANO movement sit. I know that you manage to hide this quite successfully from the citizens of the Czech Republic. But that's how it is. The Prime Minister isn't here. There's no Vice Prime Minister here. Madam Secretary is disturbing me. [[Minister Schiller is speaking out behind the speaker's back with Mr Jan Free.]] But I saw the second Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček for a while this morning, about 70 to 90 seconds. I wanted to ask him to check my translation from political language to Czech language to see if he would agree. I have prepared only two statements from this language. ČSSD has a problem. Anything, put whatever you want in there. It means there's nothing we can do about it. Actually, I have three statements. Another statement is: ČSSD has a serious problem. Put what you want. It means - I may issue a press release, but don't worry, dear coalition partners, it won't be any worse, but, you know, I have to do something. And something from the economic vocabulary of the ČSSD. I don't know if she said the Minister of Labour or the Minister of the Interior. ČSSD found 30 billion. The correct text is: ČSSD has decided to take 30 billion from whom. A little lesson like this, a little vocabulary from political Czech to general Czech. But Mr. Vice Prime Minister did not devote more than a few dozen seconds to this meeting today. So we don't just criticize the Prime Minister who's on a foreign business trip. And since the short match to be made has been drawn by the Minister of Finance, about five or six short sentences to the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration. And I won't be doing a long analysis many years back, because we wouldn't be able to make it here not just for lunch, but for dinner. Illegal hedging orders, liquidation of normal, healthy Czech companies. Point number one. Second report from the Financial Administration. The financial administration ignores the Constitutional Court's decision and will hold not only an undisputed part of VAT, but whatever it wants. Third message. But beware, this report was issued by a member of the conspiracy - the Supreme Audit Office. The contract for the acquisition of EET was illegal and the state fired several tens of millions of crowns. We must take that with a reserve, because, as the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Propaganda has proved, the Supreme Audit Office, under the leadership of the Social Democrat, has joined the ranks of conspirators. The Ministry of Finance, on which we agree with the SAO conspirators, is unable to prove any relevant contribution of the EET to the Treasury. I was listening to the radio today by chance, I'm not going to name a station to not do propaganda, I'm going to try to describe it with the adjective agraradio. And, agraradio, look, it's broadcasting a receipt ad. It's always been called a little home. [[13.00 hours]] If I wanted to talk about the unfulfilled promises of Andrej Babiš, we wouldn't be able to make dinner again. Once again, only from the resort, whose secretary has pulled a short match, that at least one will speak at this meeting. It was about 2015 when Andrej Babiš performed here as Minister of Finance and says: I have prepared pension reform, I will introduce her within two months. After that, critical government MP Martin Komárek stepped out of this place, where I stand, and you can find it in the tapestry, he said, I would say the legendary sentence: "I have not yet seen the reform, but it will definitely be the best pension reform ever created here." Well, it's been about four years since then, and your Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs has told us that there's no need for pension reform, because he's still going to that ATM, and he's still spending some money on that ATM. It's on debt, but as weird as it is with loan sharks, lending on high interest and debt is quite a favourite activity. And the last promise - and I'll keep it all for the meeting when Andrej Babiš is here. In October 2017, Andrej Babiš wanted to hand over the new Income Tax Act to the future Minister of Finance. He entrusted his deputy, Alena Schillerová, with this activity. I want to ask the current Treasury Secretary, as it happens, the same Mrs. Alena Schillerová, if she passed the law in bows. And if he does, if he ever shows it to us, or if it's like that national investment plan where Andrej Babiš here has a printed front and back page, he's got a National investment plan on the front, he's waving like that from this place, and he's saying, here I have it, but I'm not gonna show it to you. It was created for state money and we had several parties in all Czech regions, perhaps even Moravian, but it is my know-how. Madam Secretary, this is a rhetorical question: Did you pass on the whole new Income Tax Act in your files? If so, why are you hiding him from us? Or is it another one from the propaganda department? I could name some of them: 18 million EET revenues, and what we're gonna get for it. Or what I dream about when I happen to sleep. Am I not sleeping? I don't know exactly what happened anymore. Andrej Babiš wrote, and then he said, "What are you criticizing? [[In an elevated voice.]] That was 200 people! But it's his know-how. So I don't know how many people wrote the other manual they called - I saw the pretty front page - the National Investment Plan. I'm pointing out that it was made for state money, but we can't see it. Madam Secretary's downplaying the state budget. I agree that following the first quarter, it is premature to make a court in haste. I didn't do it last year or this year. On the other hand, ignoring the warning signals, the zero growth of the German economy, and other signals are simply short-sighted and dangerous. And then we're going to hear x reasons why the budget didn't turn out the way it should, for example, that the conspirators in Brussels, the SAO, the newspapers, the police, the prosecutors, of course, the opposition that has the only anti-babish program -- that's exactly the same thing, I would turn it around -- this coalition, including the fact that the ČSSD sometimes has a problem with it and sometimes a big problem -- President Chvojka bores it, but I would like him to listen to me -- that although they have a big problem with it and sometimes just a problem, it's just a government to protect the interests of Andrej Babiš, economic, political and personal. And that's it. And the fact that the Propaganda Ministry is going to write you - I don't know what I would call it - a report - a report, you're going to approach it with the tone of a snake tranq, and that's not going to get rid of the unpleasant questions of the opposition and our voters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u30	Thank you. And next up, Prime Minister Bartošek is registered with priority rights, then I am. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Czech Republic has experienced unprecedented growth in recent years, which has actually given us a chance to breathe after the consequences of the crisis from 2008 to 2013, but in particular it has given us time to prepare for a decline, stagnation or possibly a possible new crisis. It is important that the National Budget Board also draws attention in the second half of 2018 to the fact that the deficit of the state budget is to be reduced. And I will add that, especially at a time of economic growth, we have to deal with the debt of the state very strongly and not only cosmetically. The National Budget Board's report in 2018 states - and I will now use some of its quotes - that in a long period of simulations the results of simulations clearly show that the Czech public finances are long-term unsustainable while setting up legislation. That's not criticism on my part, that's not what I'm making up right now, and here I quote the official document that the government welcomed as an appropriate contribution to the debate. At the end of the long-term projection, the debt of the public institutions sector was marked to grow explosively. And in this case it must be said that the main cause of the long-term unsustainableness of Czech public finances is the discrepancy between the current legislative setting on the one hand and the expected demographic development on the other. If we look at how the question of pension reform is addressed, we will learn that we will only make cosmetic adjustments and the system change will not take place. It turns out that the future imbalance of the pension system is indeed essential for the unsustainableness of public finances. At present, and I am convinced, and this is what these predictions show, we have the last chance to reverse the negative development of public finances and to make a truly meaningful, long-term sustainable pension reform. This government is doing nothing, and unfortunately it is doing much damage to the future of the Czech Republic. If this does not happen and we do not have a pension reform in the near future, in the short term, we will face a foreseeable debt of the Czech Republic, which we cannot even imagine today. The estimate is up to 230 percent of GDP. In this context, it is also important to mention some statements of the Government's programming statement as opposed to what is actually happening. Instead of supporting social services, their destabilization and threat is that by the end of the year, many of them will not be able to provide services to our citizens who urgently need them. At present, nurses who provide home health care, on strike alert, and solutions from the state, meaningful solutions and systems, are not emerging again. We don't know the declared investment program here, as my previous speaker mentioned, but what we can say is that it all seems that priorities are not set. You can't have priorities forever on the basis that you keep promising. Those aren't priorities. The government's programming statement also states that the reform of the state will start with a balanced state budget. It didn't happen. I understand, Madam Secretary, through Mr President, that it was approved by the House. The government coalition also has a majority on it. But the budget was not balanced, and it was a violation of the government's programming statement that said it would be and the reform of the state would start with a balanced state budget. You write that you will not increase the tax burden, and instead you come up with ideas where, who else and how to tax. Like I said, pension reform isn't happening. And in my opinion, I think it's the biggest betrayal of our children and our future. To lighten things up, I'm sure you all know a story about three piggies. The first two of them built houses quickly, by breaking, from straw and mud, and laughed at the third, who built bricks, an honest construction. And I'm sure you all know how it turned out. The wolf came, blew, the first two buildings blew out, and the only third building was able to withstand this strain. [[13.10 hours]] The topics that we are now dealing with are the imminent deficit of the state budget 2019. But let's just go back to the past briefly. When we pointed out in the summer of 2018, when we made this year's budget, that the government was building a house of straw and sticks, that it was unrealistic and not responsible, you said, Madam Secretary, quote: But don't scare, Mr Vice-President! Those are your words. Well, to show that after a few months of orgy to the rhythm of "everything will" came new year hangover and slow sobering. Repeated reduction of the Czech economy's growth estimate from the original 3.3 to the current one, if that is still true, 2.4. The irresistible structure of expenditure without a clear accent on the future, i.e. investment, is becoming increasingly difficult to mask and the SAO report is very clear about this. Your own institutions, advisory bodies that would be appropriate to accept, such as the National Budget Board, alarm and say about the risks of slowing eurozone economies, including our most important partner, Germany. And here I will not further develop the risk of brexit that is really at risk. Let us return to the reality of every family that lives in the Czech Republic. Every family knows that when things are going well, it is necessary to put some of the money aside for worse times, whether by investing or saving. And as a former deputy mayor, I can confirm from my own experience that when tax collection goes well, it is not only necessary to invest but also save for worse times. Every reasonable community, every reasonable region also manages with reason, and therefore our communities, cities and regions have surpluses. And here you have to say the surpluses that you, dear government, have been grinding your teeth on for a long time. A little practical advice. Let's learn into the regions, our communities, our cities. I would be happy to welcome you, for example, in Dačice or the South Bohemia Region and you will find inspiration for a responsible management policy. My message, dear government, is clear and it relates to the fairy tale: Don't waste and you won't have to worry about a wolf named recession when it blows from the top of your lungs. Think beyond the horizon of one parliamentary term, because at the moment, dear government, you are being selfish, thinking of yourself, but not of the future and of our children. If fundamental reforms do not come, we will have a very difficult period, which will only deepen the possible recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u32	Thank you, too, and I'll ask for a replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u33	Vice-President Pikal. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u34	Thank you. I didn't originally want to perform, but I have to. I'm sorry about all this. At least I wish you a beautiful international DNA day. Vice-President Okamura had to go to a meeting with politicians who called on Čech to report to the West for better, but in his speech he fought against everything and everything, so I have to comment on some of the little things he mentioned. One thing he mentioned is his or SPD prepared by laws, such as the law on covering, which bans us from wearing sunglasses or mourning or wedding veils. So about as much of the quality of the proposals that are presented here as one example for all. He spoke of the fact that the subsidies sent by the European Union do not end where they should be, and that the European Union is responsible. No, that's what we're responsible for here, as we've set our drawing rules over the past period. For example, cleaning machines, transitions, tram lines and infrastructure or the preservation of Czech cultural heritage were financed from subsidies in my village, but in some cases it looked different. And as far as the European Union and the European Commission are concerned, it is not. Europe is our home, and all the proposals that we are criticizing here have also been voted by the European Council, where our representatives sit and have their vote. And ask your representatives in this or past government why they have or have not approved some of the directives and amendments that we are discussing and criticizing here. As for the capital drain, which was criticized and which then caused our seeming negative balance, what about the capital drain and the capital inflow, virtually. funds from the European Union are concerned, so the capital drain is due to the privatisation of the Czech companies that occurred before joining the European Union and therefore cannot be blamed for the way we privatized our businesses or our banks. And as for perhaps our political nominees in Prague's businesses, for example, three of our representatives sit in the Prague Gas Holding, who thus receive no reward from the law and sit there so that they can abolish this unnecessary company. So much for my short gig. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. Last logged in at this time with priority rights President Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have to respond to the words of Minister Schillerová, and only one part of what Stanjura said here quite rightly, a report made by the tone of snake tranquilizer, but I have to respond to the words concerning the evaluation of science and research in the Czech Republic. Because you have spoken, as is the custom, unfortunately, as is the custom of this government, about the fact that you have introduced the 17+ evaluation methodology. It's not true. It's the classic again. This methodology has already been introduced under Sobotkův's government, which was worked by our Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. You're the only one who did it, yes, because you didn't destroy it. That's all. And this way, we could go one step at a time. To claim what someone else did and then pass it off as their job. But I don't want to say it exactly as a complaint against the Minister - she still doesn't listen to me - because I understand she had it prepared in her treasures. You had it ready in the background. I understand that if science and research are in charge of a prime minister who obviously doesn't understand this area at all, he doesn't even know that this Methodic 17+ was introduced by someone other than him. So that's the only thing. And then I'd like to say absent government, because there's really no one here but two ministers, and I've seen Minister Vojtěch around here somewhere. They take turns here as they constantly eat bread in the lobby and coffee. It really seems to me that way - unfortunately the result of what I said at the beginning. The government has decided to put a stop to these problems and refuses to have a clear debate about the problems that have been suggested here by me and other previous speakers. Unfortunately, it's true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. That was the last one registered with priority rights, so we will now move on to the vote on the agenda. The agenda of the meeting was announced to you at the invitations. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. [[Gong.]] I'm hearing an application for a check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Please log in with your cards again. Once again, I'm gonna call my colleagues, and when the number of applicants settles, if there's no objections... Looks like everyone's already here. [[13.20 hours]] Initiating vote on the agenda. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 2, 131 Members and Members were enrolled, for 49, against 63. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. If there's any objection to the vote...? Doesn't look like anyone's checking in. Chairman Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, your choice we must respect. We have offered discussions on the problems that exist, problems that government documents admit. We have offered our proposals and even our support, which we are still offering if the government does not close its eyes to these risks. But it seems to you that it's just tomorrow. The day after tomorrow, you don't care. And I'm not gonna blame you for that. I'm gonna knock it out. Your children will blame you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take it no one has anything left to vote on. So I would state the result of the vote that the agenda of the meeting was not approved. And, please, Vice-President Filip, I also have Chairman Bartoš reporting to me, if I can see correctly. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u40	Thank you. Well, I think that was an interesting offer. But unfortunately, from those who indebted this state to the sale of state property worth two trillion another 1.5 trillion crowns. So the offer couldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u41	And that's probably all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Only technically. The Committee on European Affairs will sit as planned at half past two and we will learn, among other things, that the major problem of the Czech Republic is the structural deficit of public finances, for example due to unsolved pension reform -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-25-ps2017-029-01-000-000.u43	I'm just being organized. That should be all. So I'm ending this meeting because we didn't approve the show. Meet me tomorrow at nine o'clock at the proper meeting that's going on. And that's it for me. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
