ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-000-000.u1	Have a good morning. Initiating another meeting day of the Chamber of Deputies... [[We're opening a new meeting.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Initiating session 36 of the Chamber of Deputies, and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. I have two of these Members here at the moment. Mr Julius Špičák will vote with replacement card number 15 and Mr Ivan Bartoš will vote with replacement card number 8. Before we proceed to the next meeting, I have a technical statement for you. On Monday 28 October, an open-door day will take place in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore ask you to clean all the materials from your desks and, if necessary, drawers at the end of the meeting day. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 89 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 18 October of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no other proposal, which is why I will engage and proceed to the vote. I think we're in sufficient numbers here, which is why I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 1 registered 135 Members, for 133, against none. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Kateřina Valachová, and Mr Tomáš Vymazal, as verifiers of the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that until the opening of the meeting they have asked to apologise for their failure to take part in the negotiations by the following Members: Margita Balaštíková from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for health reasons, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová from today's day, from the beginning to 11 hours, for health reasons, further apologize to Mrs Babišová Andrea - working Schwarzenberg, Běhounek Jiří - foreign travel, Beitl Petr - health reasons, Benešík Ondřej within 11 hours - working reasons, Blaha Stanislav - personal reasons, Blažek Pavel - working grounds, Bojko Marian - family reasons, Černý Alexander - personal reasons, Farskýý Jan until 11.30 - health reasons, Fiala Petr - personal reasons, Gazdík Petr - health reasons, Grebeníček Miroslav - medical reasons - health reasons, Chvojka Jan - working reasons, Kováčik Pavel - Válková Helena, Zahradníková Zuzana within 11 hours - sklenák volný - Julius grounds, Mihola Jiříříříříříří - health Jiří, Mík - health reasons, Richová hostoř - Staněk Antonín - healthk - medical volný - Lubomír reasons - Vondrák reasons - medical Jan - health - health - health - medical Vyzula - medical Rostislav - health - medical Veselý - medical Ivo - medical reasons, Jančk. Further apologies to members of the government: Babiš Andrej - foreign trip, Benešová Marie - working reasons, Hamáček Jan within 11 hours - working reasons, Kremlík Vladimír - working reasons, Metnar Lubomír - foreign trip, Petříček Tomáš - working reasons, Plaga Robert - working reasons, Toman Miroslav - working reasons. He also apologizes to Mr Jan Birke at the latest within 10 hours today. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 36th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Mr President - President of the TOP 09 Club with priority rights Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are in a bit of a non-standard position because we are to approve an emergency meeting programme that has one point, and that is the third reading of the tax package.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-000-000.u3	We have two points, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-000-000.u4	Sorry. We have two points. And the key is, of course, the tax package. You're doing this because you're afraid it won't take long to approve the program. I think that during the first and second reading, you could have recorded a whole range of helpful signals and amendments that, if we had been seriously discussing, that concern was not appropriate. You've decided to ignore them and deal with it in a forceful way and with extraordinary instruments. It is, of course, your legitimate right. Try it. However, the helpfulness to the negotiations still stands. If you change your mind over the next few hours and days, we are ready to act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-000-000.u5	There. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 2, 153 Members are registered, for 84, against 50. The draft agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the first item on the show. This is about
