ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u1	2. Draft Law on Judicial Interpreters and Judicial Translators / House Print 73/5/ - rejected by the Senate The Minister of Justice is staying at the rapporteur's desk, as is the Senate representative. I note that the resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 73/6. [[Noise and restlessness in the Chamber.]] I welcome the senator who is ready, and I ask the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová to take the floor. Before you do, I will ask the House for peace. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. So this bill follows up on the previous one. Like I said, there can't be one without the other. And it can be said that the problem of interpreters is currently regulated together with experts in one law. For a long time, the professional public called for an assignment, and for the arrangement of interpreters to be dealt with by a separate law, which has happened. Unfortunately, the law was rejected in the Senate and at the same time we were in a stalemate. I stress that both interpreters and translators are very, very important to the judiciary and justice could not work without them. In this case, too, there has been a very intensive and extensive discussion over the law, a long-term one. So, most of all, in the commercial sphere, these people are receiving three times the state-renowned rates. However, it was forgotten that this is what a round expert stamp does, and it brings great benefits in the commercial sphere, and they use it essentially as a quality label, which is true. As regards other reservations, there were, in particular, reservations as regards the obligation initially to archive matters at a time of ten years. This obligation of archiving was then modified for three years and I believe that there is no problem in the future as soon as we have experience with this law, the use of electronic signature, archiving in electronic form and so on. I'm not resisting this adjustment. So once again, I ask the House to approve this bill that has not passed the Senate, and I stress once again that one cannot be without one another and it is existentially important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice and I ask the Senator to justify the Senate decision. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u4	So I will try to talk about Senate press 63, in Chamber of Deputies 73, the bill on court interpreters and sworn translators. In the Senate of 68 senators present, 52 senators were denied, four opposed, and 12 abstained. She turned to a large extent the professional public and the organization bringing together interpreters, and the prevailing view was strongly opposed to this law. The most important complaints to the professional public were, in particular, against the disproportionate setting of other obligations and the significant increase in sanctions on a condition where the remuneration of experts and interpreters is long-term insufficient. The basic lack of the Act on interpreters appears to be a simplified parallel of the law on experts and interpreters. The expert is not an interpreter and vice versa the interpreter is not an expert. Each profession has its own specifics. For today's 3,000 interpreters, this law is completely inappropriate mainly for the following reasons. The proposed legal regulation of the profession of a judicial interpreter or translator does not reflect the specifics of legal interpretation and legal translation activities. This requires more than mere linguistic competence, and this profession fundamentally affects the performance of public administration and justice. Then, while the law sets out the conditions for the creation of an interpreter-translator's permission, it does not regulate the further professional growth of interpreters and translators. Other: vocational training is absolutely necessary and should also be imposed by law, at least on a general level. The possibility of refusing interpretation is disproportionately limited. The amendment does not allow the employed interpreter to refuse the work to be carried out during his working time. At the same time, most interpreters perform other jobs or activities on their own. It is also serious that an interpreter cannot refuse an act for which he does not feel competent. Maximum rates if they are too high, given the nature of the offences and given that interpreters are natural persons, of which only a small part has significantly above average income. For example, in the area of so-called small languages, performance is limited to several interpretations or translations per year. [[16.20 hours]] She was in the Senate on 12. 8. Constitutioned working group from seven professional organizations with overlap into European space and small or sign languages. Other members are educational institutions and a group of senators. In the event of the rejection of the law on interpreters, the law would be fine-tuned using inter alia. even this group, according to the requirements of the Ministry of Justice, and this is possible only at the approval of printing 72 and 74, and not at the approval of printing 73. In the event of the approval of other prints, it would be necessary to approve this proposed law literally within a day and within a year. This is real because the efficiency is at 1. 1. 2021. I therefore žádat for the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic politely to the Chamber of Deputies to support the Senate proposal, i.e. to reject the press 73. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u5	I thank the senator, and now I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Helena Válková, if she wants to speak for the guarantee committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u6	I am merely referring to what I have already said in connection with my speech to the House of Press 72 about experts, and I confirm my promise to participate in an amendment that will remove the archiving duty of interpreters - to make it sound on the microphone one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u7	I thank Mrs Válková Warko for the news report, and I am now opening up a debate in which I had two factual points that I cannot implement, because it is only in the debate that it is possible to comment on a factual point. Now, Mr Martin Baxa, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the draft law we are discussing at the moment, namely on judicial interpreters. I am not an expert in this area, I am not a court interpreter, but I have been approached by expert files on this subject for another reason. I am the mayor of a city where the problem with court interpreters is very timely. As our country prospers economically, there is also a large number of employees in our city who speak languages other than Czech - currently 16,000 employees - and they are often associated with an agenda that actually requires the presence of judicial interpreters. And I have noted a number of complaints from the Pilsen authorities, whether it concerns the police, the court, about how difficult it is for the services of judicial interpreters to be available in the context of the urgency of these needs, and about, as the honourable Member has already mentioned, the languages that are not quite common in our environment are related to what countries, whether they are Member States of the European Union or also non-member countries, come from people who have the need to address this agenda. So it's just about the context of how I've actually been addressed in this matter. I was approached by representatives of a working group of court interpreters, when the preparation of this legislation - I think it is correct to say - which Minister Benešová had only gotten to over time... Representatives of all major associations operating in this area, professional organisations, conference interpreters' associations, the Czech Chamber of Sign Language Interpreters, the European Legal Interpreters and Translators Association, the Better Law Initiative on Court Interpretations, the Unity of Interpreters and Translators and the Chamber of Court Interpreters were associated with this working group. According to the information I received, this working group was very actively involved in the preparation of the law on judicial interpreters. Even these representatives feel very strongly that the existing law, if I am not mistaken, is considered to be one of the oldest effective laws in our legislation - I think it comes from 1967 - where a number of individual provisions do not correspond at all at present. And even this working group sees it as an emergency for legislation to be adapted on this matter. The fact that this step actually took place, if I am not wrong, until 2016, or when this law began to be prepared, is a matter, but I also noted the fact that the professional public was not sufficiently addressed in the preparation of this legislation, or rather its comments were not sufficiently accepted. And that, in fact, resulted in an initiative to disagree, in what form this law has now come back to us after the Chamber of Deputies has been discussed in the Senate. I, ladies and gentlemen, would only begin with a brief summary of what experts from the Institute of Translatology at Charles University, which is the leading workplace in this area where future interpreters and translators study, as well as judicial interpreters and judicial translators. The Institute of Translatology considers three key comments on this legislation important: The fact that the law sets out the conditions for interpretation and translation, but does not regulate the further professional growth of interpreters or translators, despite the fact that according to these experts, vocational training for interpreters and translators is considered necessary and should be mentioned in this law. The second point, very serious, concerns the possibility of refusing interpretation and translation. This possibility is disproportionately limited in the proposed law, there is no guarantee of a constant supply of orders by the State, and most interpreters or translators are also engaged in other occupations or separate activities. The amendment does not allow the employed interpreter or translator to refuse the action to be performed during his working time. It is also serious that an interpreter cannot refuse an act for which he does not feel competent. And then I would mention the third comment by experts from the Institute of Translatology of the Faculty of Arts of Charles University, and that is the maximum penalty rate for offenses. The maximum rates of fines for misdemeanors are too high due to the nature of the offences - I must say, ladies and gentlemen - I allow myself to interrupt my lecture of this expert opinion - when I read in that law that there is a penalty of up to CZK 250,000, a quarter million for refusing to perform an interpreter's or translation act, it shocked me. I didn't think anything like that was possible at all. In the context of reading the bill, I find it absolutely incredible without actually reflecting in any way the complicated situation of those who provide these services. It may be that a translator or interpreter cannot perform an act for family or work reasons which, however, are not assessed by the court as serious, exceptional or unexpected, and that the interpreters and translators are natural persons, of whom only a small part has significantly above average income, i.e. the total inadequacy of this sanction. So much for the introduction of the Translatology Institute. And now I would get to the comment that this working group of court interpreters has just defined, made up of the six professional organizations in which the interpreters and translators who work in the Czech Republic have actually gathered together. According to them, the bill on interpreters is designed to rely on incorrect input bases and supporting documents. It shall not take into account the primary difference between experts and interpreters and their professional status. There it follows that, in the opinion of these experts, the proposal for a law on interpreters is basically based, or rather copies so-called. It's a law of expertise. Interpreters and translators are an independent profession and expertise that has clear standards, ethical principles, prerequisites for quality performance, necessary background, evaluation criteria and is an independent branch of higher education. None of this is mentioned in the law. [[16.30 hours]] These experts also point out that the interpreter is not, in quotation marks, a machine that just mechanically translates words from language to language. The interpreter must be oriented in different legal systems of different countries, not interpreting words, but understanding and converting meaning. There is no way that an interpreter should think and interpret what he hears. The law must therefore reflect the specifics of legally interpreting and legally translation activities, which requires more than mere linguistic competence. It is also recalled that the scope of interpretation works extends from simple, type birth certificates to translations of very complex expert opinions. The law does not take into account the sensitivity of the status of interpreters, their high demands, the professional requirements for continuous lifelong learning, with which the necessary costs are also related. And now I come to what has already been mentioned in the previous opinion of the Institute of Translatology of the Faculty of Arts of Charles University. According to the draft law, the interpretation act is viewed as an obligation at any time, at night, on the weekend, in socially or ethically demanding conditions. If you refuse, the bill counts on sanctions. However, the legitimateness or unjustifiedness of the grounds for refusal should be assessed from the table by the public authority which requested the interpretation act. According to these experts, it is incomprehensible that the petitioner linked the legislative fate of both laws and thus condemned the interpreters in fact to the role of the statists who have to accept the modification that was primarily created for the experts. Another point is that no other law in the Czech Republic regulates the profession by an interpreter or translator. For this reason, the way in which the present proposal has been drawn up, which has left out the comments of the expert posts, concerns the broad translation community. Many principles to apply to court interpreters are also automatically passed on to all translators. Complaints about poor quality translations are a reality that troubles quality interpreters, as they aggravate the overall picture of the profession. However, the lack of quality cannot be resolved by tightening up and extending the circle of offences and draconian fines. On the contrary, these facts discourage high-quality and reliable interpreters from supplying the service to the State under economically disadvantageous conditions, below cost levels, knowing that they are viewed not as suppliers of important services, but actually as potential offenders. Another point relates to the fact that quality can only be achieved by incorporating requirements on the ethics of the profession, the education of interpreters, not simply by increasing the scope of obligations, but, above all, by specifying in the proposal the completely neglected rights of interpreters, in particular the fundamental right to familiarity in sufficient advance with the interpreted subject matter and background, the rights of synergies, the right to refuse translation without risking sanctions on the part of the authorities. Another block of these comments concerns what the bill is disproportionately excessive and repressive according to the working group of court interpreters. First, it tightens up and expands an disproportionately extensive list of possible offences today. In proportion, it increases fines for interpreters who are always natural persons, unlike expert activities, which legal persons can also carry out. The proposed amount of fines is approximately, ladies and gentlemen, four times higher than in neighbouring Germany, and the fines actually have a liquidation character. I have already demonstrated this by stating the maximum amount of the fine for refusing an interpreter's act of CZK 250,000. It is important to note that the interpreter is, on the contrary, one of the guarantors of the fundamental human rights of the parties - namely the right to understand and express himself when he does not speak the language of the proceedings. It is, therefore, an activity that has a direct effect on the decision-making of the courts, and the role of interpreters is absolutely essential. The third point in this section concerns what fellow Members from the pirate party have mentioned, and this is an obligation to archive sensitive documents. In this part, I have noted the promise made by the Member, Professor Válková, and possibly by the Minister, that this should concern the upcoming, planned, perhaps the upcoming amendment to this law if it is approved. But it's actually just one of the aspects of this whole issue. It is actually stated here, a pretty simple analogy, that the doctor must also not take the cards home, while the interpreter should archive the translations of medical documentation at home. The next point concerns the introduction of compulsory insurance for all interpreters, although the level of workload of individual interpreters is not differentiated either from the point of view of the usability of individual language orientations or regional activity. For some regions and, in particular, less-used languages, insurance costs could exceed the amount of revenue from interpretation activities. This was mentioned here, as regards the smaller languages, as well as Mrs Richterová, where this, of course, plays a role. Another point concerns the fact that the personal data of interpreters are publicly available to anyone. The third block of this expert opinion concerns what is stated in the explanatory memorandum or what is declared by the petitioner but which is not fulfilled. The increase in rates declared in the explanatory memorandum is based on incorrect interpretation of statistical data. The increase of today's rate of CZK 100 to 350 to CZK 200 to 450 per standard page of translation or an hour of interpretation is referred to as an increase of 60 per cent, but this does not correspond to the reality of the market in which interpreters move, and it is indeed an increase of only 25 per cent. The current very low rates have not changed since 1 January 2003. Therefore, it would be a long 18 years for the expected entry into force on 1 January 2021. Interpreters interpret the undignified amount of remuneration and the long-term refusal to raise the rate as an example of unequal access to the profession. The petitioner further declares - this is another reminder in this block - that there will be a threefold higher interest in carrying out activities after the new proposal introduces the principle of entitlement of appointment after fulfilling formal legal requirements. However, the interpreters are convinced of the devastation effect of this bill. Yes, and I suppose that ladies could possibly confirm that the interest in this profession is no longer high today. I can definitely confirm that based on my experience, virtually. opinions I hear in the town of Pilsen. In particular, this does not concern the interests of interpreters and translators of the younger generation. On the contrary, the tightening of repression and the imposition of other and other obligations leads to the fact that interpreters and translators, and especially those who translate from less common languages, will cease to carry out their activities, will not apply for it, because it will only mean administrative burdens and financial losses for them. This also has to do with the fact that, while there is a declared interest in stabilizing the sector, this does not correspond to the negative response that this planned law has given to all relevant professional organisations. I already mentioned it here. The petitioner also declares that the main benefit of the bill is that it is modern, but it is not clear what this modernity ultimately lies in. After all, unlike the law of the late 1960s, it also brings one undignified novelty, and it was a big surprise for me, in the form of a clause on complaints for minor lapses in the conduct of an interpreter. The quote is that minor lapses in the conduct of the President of the Regional Court will in writing reproach the interpreter; written criticisms will be recorded as non-public information on the list of interpreters and translators. An indication of the complaint imposed shall be kept on the list of interpreters and translators for a period of three years. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for a summary of what representatives of the community of experts have to say about the bill on judicial interpreters and sworn translators. There is therefore a combination of what is an opinion or what are the messages of the professional community of people who move on this issue every day. After all, with what I have, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, as a personal experience from our city, where there is a great lack of judicial interpreters and sworn translators, it complicates the current situation. And I, too, have come to the impression that this legislation does not guarantee in any part of me that there should be an interest in carrying out the activities of a judicial interpreter and a judicial translator. Of course, Madam Secretary, I am aware of the complexity of the situation that you mentioned at the outset of your speech, i.e. the coherence of these three bills. However, I considered it my duty, for the reasons I mentioned, to make my comments here, and if this law, which follows in today's House hearing, is finally approved, I believe that these comments will not remain heard and that the Ministry of Justice, I assume, in cooperation with the House, will work not only to remove the part that concerns the obligation of archiving, as has been said here, but also to amend some of the other parts that I have described here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u9	I thank Mr Martin Bax. I now have one point of fact and an application with the priority right of the Minister of Justice, then a duly registered colleague, Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u10	That's really just a point of fact. I thank Mr Bax for the summary of those critical comments. I just want to point out one thing. By linking the law on experts and judicial interpreters into one, from 1967, we had no choice but to divide it into two, and the specifics that he referred to here, of some that I know very well, we could therefore, within the framework of the amendment, within a period of more than one year - Mrs Richterová, by your means, Mr Vice-President, only confirm that we will not wait for efficiency - to adapt the specifics of the judicial interpretation activity. I was also a court interpreter, so I know that some of these comments are justified, but it was given by being one law and preparing together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary of Justice. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u12	I have been very carefully registering these comments here and listening and joining Mrs Válková's promise here that we can, of course, work these comments within the framework of the amendment within the legislative deadline, which I believe is more than one year. So I'd like to ask you again, both of these laws are interlocked vessels, so of course we can remove these little things. So I'm joining the proposal, if that's enough for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u13	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová. Before he takes the floor, he apologizes from today's meeting from 17.00 to 19.00 for working reasons Ondřej Benešík and Jiří Běhounek already cancels the apology from the next meeting, is present from 16.30 am. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, also for the promises made by Mrs Válková and Mrs Minister. I just want to point out that these are things that don't sound new. It sounded as early as the third reading, during the discussion of this law. We have tabled appropriate amendments for the pirát. I really consider it an opportunity to take a stand now that this House has had a chance to pass the law in good shape. It was just something that could be worked out during the legislative process. Instead, just now, like a rescue brake, the Senate must say that it is really the way it is now designed, it is the liquidation and bullying of the tradesmen that the court interpreters are. I think it's a really bad bear service for those who could really influence the stage of preparation and then the decision-making process, and I really beg all of us to attach more hearing to factual arguments about such things. Again, the amendments were here. When it comes to archiving, the really important thing is that this unnecessary administration - why unnecessary? Because today all interpretations are part of the relevant file. So for inspection purposes, the file can be searched at the competent court and the interpreting operation checked. And we wanted to save it, so the interpreters themselves have to archive it. It doesn't really matter whether they're going to have this obligation for ten years or for three years, as it's become less. The point is that they don't have such unnecessary burdens at all. And again with the practical example. Once you're an interpreter of rare languages, it doesn't really pay for those few interpretations a year to pay some insurance to keep you from leaking data from that archive. It doesn't pay you to deal with this, just forget about the job. And I'm saying again, so is the material being extremely sensitive about the diversity of different topics. Interpreters don't have a chance to cover everything, because the second key point in order to be able to reject the action is what the colleague here said in detail before me. I really consider this to be two key points, and I am sorry that the House will probably have to adopt a law that will have to be corrected before it comes into effect, but it is a better solution than either to burden itself with disproportionate bullying or to force a number of court interpreters to resign from their profession. That is why I would like to make sure that these two points are in accordance with this - Professor Válková nods at me, so we are in agreement - and that this is where the proposal for the quick amendment will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Richterová. Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The esteemed Minister, Mr Senator, colleagues, basically speaking after two of my predecessors is almost unnecessary because they have drawn attention to all the fundamental shortcomings of this law. But repetition is the mother of wisdom, and I will allow myself some thought in relation to my previous speaker afterwards. So the three basic issues why KSČM members will not vote in favour of this proposal have been mentioned. Impossible to refuse to perform an act. Everyone has the right to refuse if he does not want to or cannot perform an act for any reason. This law won't allow this man. And in the event that he would like to do so, someone from the table will decide on the penalty referred to by colleague Baxa, who is significantly different from the experts, there has been a shortage and, according to many interpreters or translators, it is essentially liquidation because not everyone carries out dozens, dozens of these operations a week or a month. And the third reason why we cannot support this legislatively undernegotiated and quality material is already mentioned archiving. Archiving, which is supposed to be for many years, I think there are ten, and we are talking about not every material received by a forensic expert or a forensic interpreter or translator, doesn't have to be public, and if it gets that kind of material, then according to that degree of non-publicity - and I don't want to talk about the level of secrecy - it should also be used in some way, that is to build up its archiving. These are shortcomings that are so crucial to us that we do not want to take part in the adoption of a completely new law that has worked here over the past few years - at present we can talk about at least four years when we are discussing this issue, because we have already discussed this in the subcommittee on justice and judicial self-government, which was chaired by the professor, Mrs Válková. We didn't come to any conclusion with the Ministry of Justice at the time, and at the end of the term, the material didn't actually pass. But to our surprise, although we have made many and many reservations about the original material on the subcommittee - and thanks to Mrs Válková - after the elections, a new proposal was submitted to this House, which was, of course, to our surprise, or to our regret, to the people who worked in the subcommittee, exactly the same as the original material and unfortunately did not reflect reservations, comments, what he had done to the subcommittee on justice and the judicial authority. If the Justice Department wanted to, she could have submitted material that we worked under the guidance of the Professor, and we could have been somewhere further away. [[16.50 hours]] Why don't I also want to vote on this material, although I know that it has been said several times today and repeatedly "we will redo it, we will submit a novel, we have a year and three months"? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you about the course of the negotiations on this material. We started to act on this material in June last year. Minister of Justice then was Minister Pelikán. Meanwhile, there is a colleague who has already been the fourth Minister of Justice since then - the fourth, so she inherited something. When we were discussing this in June, I remember performing here and saying the material wasn't good. The Minister of Justice of the day, in his own way and with a smile that he could, had the time limit reduced to two months, or a month, by twenty days, I don't know exactly how it was there - the deadline was shortened. I'm back then, and you can trace it in the log, congratulate the professor. The war's beautiful holiday, that she would definitely be the one to work it off, because the minister had already packed his bags and knew he wouldn't be at the Ministry for long. Basically, Mrs Válková, for the Ministry of Justice and for the three ministers who have replaced in the meantime, has done a lot of work, and for that it is certainly necessary to say thank you. You did as previous minister before Mr. Pelikán, which means fifth in the order today, a huge piece of work, when, of course, since you didn't have that team of people in the Ministry of Justice behind you, and unfortunately, we didn't listen to the professional public often, you made a lot of mistakes here. And those are the mistakes we're making here today. Since it is September today, that is, since the first hearing, when Minister Pelikán had his deadline reduced to two months, 16 months have passed, so I am very concerned that we should be on time 1. 1. 2021, when it is due to take effect, this law was at all possible to discuss, because it would then go into effect and into effect the law, which we all see here as poor quality. I will take the liberty of putting a little bit more in the way of my last previous speaker, Mrs Richterová, a colleague of mine. She wrote or said, respectively, that this could be prevented in the legislative process - the shortcomings that are there. Yes, my colleague, you're absolutely right. It could have been prevented. And your colleagues, who sit on the constitutional committee, some wanted to prevent it too, tabled amendments that did not go through. But it can be prevented even today only by the fact that 101 Members would have to vote for it. So I'll wait, there's another speaker after me, the few minutes before the vote. I will wait for you pirát to vote, and I will vote for this proposal, which you yourself say is not good, quietly wondering what you traded it for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u17	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Now a colleague of Mr. Válek is registered, but he was ahead of him with a factual remark by his party colleague Dominik Feri. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, I can't condone the comment on what's going on here. Whenever we, as the opposition, make a proposal, whether in government opinions or at first reading or in committees, in this case in our constitutional committee, we are besieged that we do not look at any issue comprehensively, that we have left something behind and that it is therefore necessary to drop the proposal and start again. And all of a sudden, there's a government proposal for a Senate refund, a rejected motion, and we're discussing that we're still going to adopt an additional amendment in the legisvakance. Colleagues, I find this completely absurd. This is an obvious double standard, I agree with my previous speakers. And I cannot be satisfied with the guarantee that Mrs Válková is giving us, even though I very much appreciate her work, which she has done on these three drafts in the constitutional law committee, that this will be settled successfully. If it wanted to be settled, it would have happened a long time ago. That means there's a big double standard here, and I'm going to think of this negotiation here, of catching up on votes up to 101, until in another government opinion on any of our proposals, we see that there's a shortage, especially flagrant to a government proposal that's still going ahead of things like the interreort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr. Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I think there's a rare consensus here that the novel is not good, that it was desperate to write it well, in the ways that it was, in the speed and situation that it was, but it is not, it should be written better, it should be written by the Ministry, it should go through proper internal and external commentary procedures. I think that, like me and all of you, you receive a number of letters from forensic experts and interpreters who point to factual errors. And I think if I repeated all these objections, you all have them, you've heard them, you know them, you've read them, we'd be here by tonight, and that's not my goal. I think, if that's how it is, it's our duty to support the Senate and to prepare legislation properly, well done, through the Ministry's path. Let the majority vote and decide somehow, I understand that. What I don't understand is business, although I understand that this is how politics works, but this is how to ask for it, through the President, friends from the Pirates and into the microphone: we will support you, you promise us and over and over again. I'm sorry, I really don't like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u21	I thank Mr Válek. Now, Mrs Válková, with a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u22	Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I must seriously address my namesake here, by your means, Mr Válek, to his claim. This isn't really about business. I would never go into any business. The point is that if there is a need for 101 votes and it is a change that I myself, when we discussed it - I was also a former court interpreter - considered, and then I leaned to the majority in the constitutional committee, and I was therefore opposed to archiving, I did not support this proposal, it is archiving, it has decreased from ten years to three years, and this is a technical amendment, this archiving obligation can be abolished, so it is not a business or a deal. And I refuse that it's a misspelled law. That's not a bad proposal. First of all. Secondly, if the amendment is to be made, and we have a year and something, that is, again, through you, Mr Vice-President, to Mr Ondráček, an indirect answer, there is no problem at all to include, as I said, specifics which do not change the system and the whole concept of the law and 90 per cent of the provisions. This is where I hear it's a poor law. That's really not a bad law. It's not drawn as far as it might be, but after all the peripetiums, it's still a result that I would call a quality standard. Right from the start, calling it poor quality, that's what I'm defending myself against. And there's no business and dealing, at least from our side, it's definitely not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Jakub Michálek now. We're still in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. I must disappoint my colleagues. I don't think they should judge us by their standards. Unfortunately, I didn't get anything for it. That's not the way we operate. Given that there has been a promise from the Minister of Justice that they are willing to work on essential matters, and I very much appreciate the shift in this position, I suggest that, given that today there is probably no 101 vote for the approval of this proposal, the discussion of the proposal is interrupted for two months and that, during that period, an amended amendment be tabled which would be approved under Section 90, where the main objections will be resolved, and subsequently it has been discussed in parallel in order to remove the greatest reservations about the bill. Thank you for a constructive approach to solving this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u25	Mr President, there is still a factual remark from Mr Válek, but you have made a procedural motion to interrupt the hearing of a bill that has returned from the Senate rejected. It's procedural, but I have to vote on it. But to be honest, I've never seen a situation like this constitutionally before. But there's nothing we can do. I'm gonna sing. I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues... I am not saying that we have adjourned from the meeting, but I remind you of the constitutional prerogative for all colleagues that the bill returned or rejected by the Senate is to be included at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This is perhaps my right as President to remind you of this. And I repeat for the arrivals that Mr Jakub Michálek has proposed a suspension of item number 2 of today's meeting, which is the law on court interpreters and sworn translators, the House press 73/5, which is rejected by the Senate for 60 days, thus interrupting 60 days. So that's the thing that we have to deal with in the vote, and that's what we're going to decide in the number thirty-one vote. Calm down, please. I'm taking you all out of the diaper. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has been settled, we will decide on a procedural proposal to suspend the debate of the House of Press 73/5 for 60 days. I've started voting number 31 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 31 out of 171 of the Member present for 149, against 9. The motion was accepted. In that case, all I have to do is end item two. I have to say that I apologize to my colleague Válek, who was signed up for a point of fact. There's nothing we can do. There has been a vote in favour of the procedural motion and I am bound by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Noise in the hall.]] Before we go any further, I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u26	Yes. With priority rights, Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. After all, as it was said here by Vice-President Filip, I have not experienced a situation like that before. The vote went through. We can ask for a legislative opinion if I could ask for some ten, fifteen minutes of breaks on this matter, so that we can receive that we are actually progressing lege artis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u28	Yes. I think that's a reasonable request - a request for a break. At the same time, I would like the club presidents to clarify the procedure for this related point, which we will now be discussing. So I'm declaring a ten-minute break to 17.14, sorry, 15 minutes, break to 17.20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 17.20, the time for a break has ended and we will continue with the agenda. We have entered into a legislatively not entirely simple situation with the fact that we have passed one law, but we have interrupted the other related, and now we have to deal with the situation. The solution proposed by the legislation is that I will open the discussion of the point by the court interpreters, that is, the third point that we have now on the agenda, I will propose a break and we will vote a break for 60 days, as we did at the previous point. Of course, it depends on the will of the Chamber of Deputies to approve this recommendation of legislation, which considers it the only possible, by voting. With priority rights, Madam Vice-President Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u30	It is still fair for colleagues to say that the situation is not standard because the three proposals are related. We approved one. Two we will not approve, we will interrupt, and here is the problem that, of course, the President of the House has to send the approved bill that cannot be revised to the President so that the law can become effective, valid, and therefore we are in a difficult situation, because the President will receive only one proposal, he will not receive the other two consecutive ones, and then we should hope that either the President can hold it from us, the President of the House cannot hold it - and the President - first we voted. [[notes from the diaper]] Okay, but it's the first one. The first one we voted for, and the President of the House must send this proposal to the President within a legal period. The President has two options within 15 days. Either sign up for the law to be valid and effective, or give it back to us so that we have to overrule it by standing by, which puts us in a position that the president of the three laws will only get one, and we don't know how the process will end here, and we can't - we also discussed this with legislation - can't contain the first passed law here. That would again be the violation of the Constitution by the President of the House. Well, that's all I think is fair so you can hear everything we've discussed with the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u31	Just a comment on the position of the legislation. There is no time limit for dispatch by the Constitution. From this point of view, the legislation of the Chamber of Deputies is inclined to believe that it is possible to wait for the two other laws to be passed. But it's really something that's new here and what creates a certain precedent situation. With priority rights, Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u32	Mr President, honourable Members, I have consulted with my predecessor, who is basically working on the Legislative Council of the Government today, and he is sending me a text here that the accompanying law needs to be approved, because otherwise it would really be a mess. So I'd like to at least have the accompanying one, 'cause there's gonna be some security here. So we have a different legal opinion. I trust Dr. Kněžínek because he is an experienced legislative officer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Michálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u34	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to support what my colleague, Vice-President Černochová, said here. I also cling to the conclusion that we should not bend what is enshrined in the Constitution and that the bills proposed after approval by the Chamber of Deputies - no matter what we think of them, whether they are good, bad, contain errors, etc. - they are advancing to the President of the Republic, and he may act as he sees fit. I just wanted to mention the vote, which was rather unusual, I certainly agree, about the interruption of the debate - a quote from the comment on the Rules of Procedure, which has therefore been drawn up by the collective authors, that, as far as the draft procedural nature is concerned, the current House practice allows the proposal for a adjournment, virtually. interruption of the item when discussing bills returned to the Senate, respectively. By analogy, when discussing bills rejected by the Senate, see the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies on the 4th parliamentary term, 16th meeting, 10. 6. 2003, item 116. So even if it is a situation that is not standard, it is not a situation that would not happen again. So I think we have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and constitutional order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u35	I merely remind you that we are not in the debate, which means that I can only give the floor to those who have priority rights, and this is my Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u36	I'd like to supplement President Michálek. Yes, we've been in a similar situation before, but the similar situation concerned the interruption of the motion given back to us by the Senate. It wasn't about the situation if we had a bunch of laws that were related here. It's just that we're gonna go back to saying these things to each other 100 percent of the way they are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. So at this point, in any case, I'm opening up a point.
