ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u1	2. Proposal for a law on the selection of persons in the management and supervisory bodies of legal persons with state ownership (Nomination Act) /German press 220/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 220/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Hraba among us and, under the authority of the Prime Minister, the House's press will present 220 Minister of Justice Benešová. I'm sorry. First, I will ask the Minister to comment on the amendments. Please, you have the floor. It's after the important vote, I know, but I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have here again the nomination law, which has been returned to the Senate with amendments. There's three of them. This law follows a similar bill, which has already been submitted in the previous parliamentary term, and the government of Bohuslav Sobotka has discussed it but has not approved it. The current government has once again drawn up this nomination law in a similar text and has been approved and transferred to the Senate in the Chamber of Deputies on 27 September of this year. The Senate discussed it at the 12th meeting of 30. 10. and adopted three amendments to it and returned the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies in its version. The content of the draft nomination law is the obligation of individual ministries to carry out an open transparent tender for the position in question in the selection of persons to the managing authority of a legal person with the ownership of a State falling within the competence of the Ministry. According to the draft law, the ministries will also have to submit all personnel nominations not only to the management, but also to the supervisory bodies of legal entities with the ownership participation of the State which fall within their jurisdiction, to the committee for personnel nominations, which will then discuss them and take an opinion on them. Furthermore, the law regulates the status, composition and competence of the Staff Nomination Committee, which will be an advisory body of the Government. The opinion of the committee on the nomination will be of a recommendable nature. However, if the Ministry deviates from the committee's recommendation, it will be obliged to justify this deviation. It is important to stress that the proposed nomination law certainly does not want to delegate the final responsibility in the case of personnel nominations to an expert body by individual members of the government, because in the Government's view, the one who is ultimately to decide on the personnel nomination is the one who bears not only substantive but also political responsibility in the present case, i.e. individual members of the government. Finally, I would like to briefly mention the discussion of the Senate bill. As I mentioned, there are three amendments. These amendments to the Senate, on the one hand, release the condition that the tenderer in the selection procedure should not be in conflict of interest at the date of submission of the application for the selection procedure in relation to the function applied for. This adjustment should allow the candidate to get out of his/her previous work only when he/she is selected in the selection procedure, which may help to increase the willingness of existing successful managers to participate in the selection procedures. A further proposal shall then be added to the nomination of a person to the managing or supervisory body of a legal person with a State's equity in the sense that the nominated person may not, not only at the date of appointment or proposed to the post as set out in the proposal, but throughout the period of performance of his/her duties, engage in the same activity as the legal person with the ownership of the State in which he/she operates and may not be a member of the supervisory or statutory body of a legal person with the same or similar subject of business. As the petitioner, I would like to return the draft nomination law to the Chamber of Deputies for amendments, in their wording, to say that these proposals can be accepted, and therefore the draft bill, as referred to by the Senate, can be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Petr Beitl apologizes for working reasons from 15.30 to the end of today's day. So, I ask whether Mr Leo Luzar is still interested in expressing himself as rapporteur for the Committee on Economics. If this is not the case, I am opening the debate and this is the first Mr Tomáš Martínek to be signed up for at the moment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly like to express myself as one of the proponents of the compromise amendment, which created the final form that went to the Senate, that we also agree for the pirát with the amendments that the Senate has prepared for the bill and that we will support them, just as the Reconstruction of the State, which, like the pirát, believes that these amendments are not bad and are for the benefit of the entire law. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u5	Thank you. I am so sorry, I am registering an application with priority rights, but I have not given my mistake to the Senator before the debate. If I can make this right now, Mr. Senator, you have the floor. Then, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. I had a feeling I heard the senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, dear Members, honourable Members, my speech will be brief. The Minister referred to this point almost perfectly. It is true that all three of my amendments have passed through the Senate. I think that these amendments have a ratio because they do not discriminate against those who already work in the field and can therefore participate in the selection procedure. In my view, too, there are a lot of reasons to dismiss the second amendment, i.e. at the moment of nomination, the conflict of interest and has a sense of the moment of appointment and during the term of office. From this point on, I would like to ask you to support the Senate version and I hope that it will be accepted. Thank you for your word and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u7	Thank you, Senator. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this proposal was made here by discussing once the nomination bill from the pirát' pen in this parliamentary term, which was returned to a recast, and then, in agreement with the government, we achieved that the government had submitted the proposal from the last parliamentary term. I am very happy that we have managed to get to this stage, when the law is basically final. It was one of our 20 priorities to finally set up a system that would be legally enshrined, not just by a government resolution that would prevent abuse of these functions for those so-called political traders. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I would like to thank the Senate, because in this respect he has done the work that I believe belongs to the Senate, looking at it with a second look and removing things that are redundant or unimaginable. However, I would like to remind you that this is certainly not the last step that needs to be taken in relation to the occupation of functions, because although the law applies to certain positions in the state, in supervisory councils -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u9	I'll stop you for a moment. I feel like the noise level is out of place again. Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u10	Thank you. So the law applies to some positions, such as the Supervisory Boards, but unfortunately it does not apply to some even more significant positions in the management of those joint stock companies, such as the Board of Directors of České dráhy, when the last tender procedure was in a rather special way, when the Prime Minister first announced his result, and then it was a tender procedure. And, of course, there was no nomination committee going through that. So I think that this too is an incentive for reflection. The Committee on Nominations should deal with cases such as those of the Czech Railways and the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways, because these are far more influential and significant posts. Similarly, for these essential posts, a certain level of selection procedure and the applicant's qualification in relation to the management of such large units should be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-002-002.u11	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the debate. I don't see anyone in the O.R. control. I'm done with the conversation. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words from the Minister or the Senator. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed again to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. An absolute majority of Members present are needed to adopt the following resolution. [[Gong.]] I'll wait a little longer. [[Several Members are coming into the hall.]] I've already invited all my colleagues to the vote. I will now read the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on the selection of persons in the management and supervisory bodies of legal persons with the participation of the State, according to the House press 220/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 220/6." [[Nomination Act]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 117, registered 180, for 135, against 21. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you all for your attention. Now I just like to sign the law after two years. I'm done with the point. [[Noise in the hall.]] Opening point
