ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Commercial Companies and Cooperatives (Act on Commercial Corporations), as amended by Act No. 458/2016 Coll., and other related laws /house print 207/ - first reading Let me ask you, if you don't care about what's going on here, go to the lobby so that we really have a quiet atmosphere in this Chamber. [[The noise in the hall lasts, the chairman waits for a while.]] I'm worried that we should discuss a point today. Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Trade Corporations Act and some other related laws directly linked to the issue regulated by the Commercial Corporations Act. The Commercial Corporations Act was adopted in 2012 in the framework of the recodification of civil law, together with the Civil Code, and since then, following its application in practice, some shortcomings have been identified, which this valid and effective legislation contains, and the preparation of the present draft law, which seeks to respond to these shortcomings, was carried out by the expert committee at the Ministry of Justice, which was established from leading Czech academics, trade law specialists, from representatives of legal practice, namely lawyers and notaries, as well as from the representatives of the judiciary, in particular by judges of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic. At first glance, the proposal can also appear to be quite extensive. It contains hundreds of amendment points, but if we look at it in more detail, we will find that basically the changes contained in it can be broken down into several thematic groups. The large number of points is determined by the fact that the changes are reflected in a number of provisions of this law, which in itself is quite extensive. [[18.10 hours]] One of the things that has been included in this amendment based on the evaluation of the application of the law in practice is the effort to reduce the regulatory burden for entrepreneurs and strengthen the autonomy of will. Of the things that aim to reduce the administrative burden for entrepreneurs, I can mention, for example, the simplification of the creation of legal entities, which in itself in the Czech Republic are already taking place very quickly in the form of notary notary notary or notary. It's been about four hours. However, one of the things associated with this is the payment of cash deposits in a bank account. This is proposed to be canceled so that the cash deposit can be made in other ways than by putting it into a bank account, and this is precisely the case with the notary. The per rollam vote is adjusted, the prohibition of competition is regulated, the setting-up of cooperatives is simplified. The second theme is then to ensure greater transparency in the organisational structures of capital companies and cooperatives, especially in situations where a member of their elected body is not a natural but another legal person. Because only information that we have a legal person A and a legal person B sits in its body, such information is not very relevant about who is really involved in the activities of that legal person. It is therefore proposed that the legal person who is a member of the institution should always be able to identify which individual person who acts for such a legal person is therefore the person who is effectively responsible for the activity for which it is possible to be held liable. The next issue is the adaptation of the monistic system of the internal management of a public limited company, thus in order to strengthen transparency, where only one body is required to be set up, namely the Board of Directors. Solving the issue of so-called inactive companies is another matter that is being addressed. These are companies which are still formally registered in the Commercial Register but are not effectively engaged in any activity. This is linked to the fact that, as a general rule, these companies do not base relevant documents on the Register of Documents, but very often these companies can also be used for various infringements. They are sold in various purposes and basically only function as a specific shell. We are proposing here that such a company, which does not actually develop any activity, is inactive and will not respond to the calls made by the court, can be abolished and thus, on the one hand, clear the trade register, but in particular, prevent this trading company from being abused in the future. Some shortcomings in the transposition of the European Union directives are also being addressed. The interconnection of the Commercial Register with other similar registers of other Member States is being carried out. The aim of the proposal is also to ensure greater protection of the rights of members, in particular minority members, and to strengthen their legal certainty, for example if they are to invoke the annulment of the resolution of the company's highest bodies. The issue of the pre-emptive rights of associates is anchored, and so on. Some inaccuracies and uncertainties are being removed in the formulation of such a large law, which, of course, can never be prevented, and some legislative technical and terminology deficiencies, uncertainties, duplications are being removed. The proposal has been in the Chamber of Deputies for quite a while. The fact that the first reading only takes place today is basically a consequence of the fact that, after I took up the position of Minister of Justice, I had the bill examined again very closely by experts on commercial law, especially in terms of whether the scope really needed, as the proposal was submitted. I presend that if he is released for further negotiations, and I firmly believe that we are prepared to explain any changes to those academics on the committee, at the same time possibly identify those that may not be part of the proposal. However, I dare say that there is nothing that would be unnecessary in this bill in principle. Some things may have already been solved in the meantime, so they may be late in terms of facilitating application practice, but there is basically nothing there that is not entirely necessary. Which doesn't mean the bill can't change. We're ready for this. After all, we have already communicated with the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee in the past about this draft law, and we may have already indicated a possible future direction. We propose the effectiveness of the draft law on 1 January 2020, with the exception of certain provisions relating to the basic registers where we envisaged 1 July 2020 in order to set up appropriate processes for the processing of reference data. On the other hand, by submitting a bill to the Chamber of Deputies - and I do not accuse the Chamber of Deputies, I say, that was my initiative - a relatively long time has passed, it can be assumed that further discussion should also result in a shift in the effectiveness of the proposed legislation. Please beg - this is a bill which is particularly important for entrepreneurs, for legal persons, but also concerns issues such as housing cooperatives and so on - so that the proposal is released for discussion in committees, then for further reading and, in particular, to remove from the administrative burden where it is really necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Jakub Michálek, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'll make it brief for the Minister. It really is a draft law that is quite bulky, with a full text of about 180 pages of legislative text. There's almost a change on every page. I'd like to give you an orientation on the circles of change so I can follow up on the minister. The proposed amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act aims, in particular, to remove the inaccuracies or uncertainties of the text of the law, to reduce the regulatory burden on entrepreneurs and to strengthen the autonomy of the will of parties where restrictions are not necessary, to ensure greater transparency in the organisational structures of capital companies and cooperatives, to regulate the monistic system of internal management of a public limited company, to adapt certain provisions to better define the meaning and purpose of the legislation, to link the trade register with other similar European registers through the interconnection system of registers, to effectively prosecute commercial corporations that repeatedly fail to fulfil their obligations to establish financial statements in the Charters, to remedy shortcomings in the incorporation of certain provisions of the Directives of the European Union, to strengthen the protection of the rights of members, particularly minority, and third parties, and to eliminate legislative technical or terminology errors and duplicate or excess provisions. I could, of course, discuss this much more closely, but I think it is possible to refer to the explanatory statement. So I'm just going to point out one circle of problems that has not been explicitly mentioned here, which I think will also be of interest within the government coalition, and these are the proposed changes that concern the so-called codetermination, that is, the way employees are involved in the organs of the commercial corporation. This is the third of the employees mentioned in the supervisory boards of companies that have over 500 employees who have some public participation. This applies, of course, to commercial companies that are controlled by self-government. We know that this has some implications, even from the point of view, when there is, for example, a coalition government in a city, then that one third of the employees and the division of positions in the supervisory board may cause some complications in controlling the company. So that's a thing that should definitely be subject to a thorough discussion. [[18.20 hours]] As this is a material that is very bulky, I will propose that the time for committee discussions be extended. I propose 30 days, because the material really deserves a detailed discussion. After all, let us remember that after some five or seven years, it is a code change that has been approved here, and it is certainly time for us to revise what has been done, or what has failed, to modify. And that time is probably most appropriate in the context of discussing this very extensive amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Dominik Feri is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, dear members of the government present, allow me to touch on even more of the areas covered by the amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act. I would like to divide this into three areas, first of all, on topics that I think are somewhat unclear, asked. It's a question of whether the adjustment is the most appropriate. Further to the questions that are somehow there, even if they shouldn't be there. And thirdly, the topics that are missing. So the first thing, and this is already mentioned by the Minister, is the question, let's say, of cleaning up the registers, that means shutting down companies very often without liquidation. I do not have any comprehensive analysis of whether we are using the tools we currently have for this in the context of the settlement of comments and within the framework of the RIA. This means that when a company does not base financial statements in the Collection of Financial Statements, it is possible to impose order fines on it according to the effective regulation. I know that the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce have been looking for this in some way, but they have not received an entirely satisfactory answer. That means this should be settled. So is the question of whether the procedural time limits are too short. Because this is where we talk about one month. The Czech National Bank has made comments and proposes three months. Unfortunately, it was not granted in the commentary procedure in this, which I think is something that could somehow be discussed. So that's one circle. The second circuit concerns things that are redundant there. And perhaps it is also the predecessor of the Minister. The issue, which is such marginal but may have a real impact on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in particular, is the issue of a mandatory collective board of directors. When you look at the proposal, it actually significantly interferes with the monistic structure of the stockholders. While you have a statutory director today as a statutory body and board of directors, the statutory director is now being cancelled, the powers of the statutory authority are being transferred to the board of directors, but that is now - or under the proposed regulation it should be required to be at least three-membered, provided that it is not a one-member joint-stock company. This must be mentioned. Maybe let's get out of real practice, real life, why shareholders choose a monistic structure in the Czech Republic and abroad. Well, to save costs so they don't have to set up a board of directors, even if it can be one-man. So they don't have to set up a supervisory board. Let's just make the company more operational, let's just say. A relatively effective liberal arrangement was still, say, supported by the interpretational opinion of the Supreme Court. You can find this in the green collection under number 31/2016. And that is where the position was built, sure that the board of directors could be only one person, and the chairman of the board of directors could also be the statutory director. That means, in fact, all of this can only be concentrated into one person. Of course, I do not know whether politically, if this is to ensure some basic control mechanisms that should work in that capital company. On the other hand, the Supreme Court is dealing with the fact that simply when someone enters a business relationship with that particular joint stock company, they're supposed to look at the public record of its structure and if there's really one hand that controls the other hand. That means the Supreme Court has been very liberal in this, and it's actually continuing in this dictum. In the context of the comment procedure, the Presidents of the Senate object to JUDr. Cileček and JUDr. Šuk that there's no need to interfere with the effective adjustment in any way. And it will also have practical implications. Imagine that - and this is even written in RIA - those companies that have only one-man board of directors for the sake of savings, some greater ability, are over 3,000. And to those companies - let's leave aside how many of them are one-man - but we would say to those companies: well, with some distance, you have to get two more people to trust and, of course, you also have to pay them, and there will be some consequences for you. Without any indication of why it should be. I've been to the relevant union with this, or to the representatives of the relevant department at the Ministry of Justice. It was argued, for example, that it is simply necessary to make a strict distinction between the different forms of society so that they do not get closer. On the other hand, the practice abroad is that both capital and personal companies are getting closer and closer in some way. And if real life says "we want to have small operating costs, we just want to have those powers concentrated" then there's no reason to actually say "you have to pay three people, there must be three people on that board at all times" when one person is richly enough. It would be very helpful. In addition to the Supreme Court, the Chamber of Commerce also supports the launch of the amendment point. So I believe it will be a matter of discussion. Another issue that I would like to touch on, and it is an amendment that could be changed in some way, is the question of protest, protesting, that is, a certain act in a capital company where a shareholder or shareholder must protest so that he can then rely on the annulment of the general meeting's resolution to conflict with the law or the statutes. It is to be noted that the protest institute was introduced - when I was looking for it in the reason reports and so on - precisely because, let's say, of achieving greater legal certainty for the company. When someone objects to the annulment of the resolution, the company cannot be at all sure of what it really is, to what extent, what impact it will have on it. It may in some way trigger bad business consequences, for example. That's why there was a protest. This means that the shareholder must say "no, no, I simply disagree here" and then, of course, plead in court. The D.O.D.'s going further on this novel. It says the protest may not only be formal, but it must be justified. But without putting up with any clearer legislative contours as to what the justification should look like. The question is, what is the justification? Is it enough to get off at the general meeting with the fact that this clause here, this decision here, it's against the law? Is it enough to put it that way in general? Or is it necessary to justify it exactly? Can a minority partner in a limited liability company at a general meeting be able to challenge a detailed contradiction with any legislation? I'm not entirely sure about this. This means that this must either be specified or completely deleted and kept the protest in its present form. It is also reported from the RIA itself that the number of cases in which members of capital companies invoke their collective rights in the form of this is simply decreasing - they invoke the annulment of the resolution in question. This means that there is no reason to change this significantly in any way, and I believe that it will still be balanced and adjusted in some way. And the last thing, again a little bit small, the thing that is missing there is the question of the possibility of the simultaneous participation of the shareholder, or shareholder, at the general meeting with his representative. It's kind of Evergreen, though it's a very small provision. What's going on in practice? Imagine that you are a minority associate and de facto you have some sort of strained relationship, and that majority associate is dragging you around and presenting some surprising resolution and so on. An invitation to the general meeting and so on, of course. This one can be insured. But the question is, what can he come up with at the general meeting? And it also depends on your legal awareness if you can respond promptly. And let's face it, a significant proportion of the partners and they can't respond because they're simply not lawyers, they're not community law experts. There's nothing we can do. I think that we should be helpful in this and allow the partners and shareholders to take theirs, in particular, to the general meeting. For what reason?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u7	Yes, you're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u8	Thank you. It's too late, I get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u9	Sorry, we'll wait a little longer. I would ask the honourable House, ladies and gentlemen, if they are discussing something important, please discuss it in the foyer and do not disturb the speeches of those who appear... Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u10	Thank you. That means, let's edit the amendment and say yes explicitly, the companion can take his attorney with him, because there may be some sudden situation in which he himself could not legally defend himself at the general meeting. It goes hand in hand with what I mentioned earlier, i.e. with the protest. We're tightening the protest, but we're not actually giving these associates any tools to do it, how to justify it. Because he cannot have a lawyer with him who will say yes, it is contrary to the provisions of the section so much and so much of the law. And the absence of this provision, i.e. the possibility of simultaneous participation is completely contrary to real life, and I think we should not create laws that conflict with real life. We live in a time of computer technology, the associate can call his deputy at any time. And the main argument of the ministry why this is not to be anchored is that the general meeting is not some public forum, but at the moment it is simply possible, it may have Skype there, it can make phone calls. In practice, for example, the fact that shareholders transfer, for example, one piece of their share to their legal representative in order to be there. Because even at the general meeting, at least some sort of equality of arms should apply. And while the board of directors has their legal team there, I can't have them there if I were a shareholder, I can't have my attorney there if he won't let me have him as a guest. So we could put some balance in there. So much for that. These are small things that I think are not the reason to reject this proposal at first reading. Let's move on. If we extend the time limits, we will be able to deal very skillfully with this on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u12	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I will respond by your means to Dominik Feri as regards the monastic structure. It is true that there are so-called companies. a single-member joint-stock company where he is the only member of the Management Board and the statutory director in the form of one person. I am of the opinion that this lacks the meaning and philosophy of the law in terms of monistic societies. I see a monastic company where there are more shareholders who choose a three-member board, which subsequently withdraws or appoints a statutory director in the course of the procedure. If the company is a shareholder, it is mostly those classic basic two-million-dollar shares that have one shareholder, so I am of the opinion that a far more favourable management approach is a classic dualistic system, when the sole shareholder makes a simple form, by a decision of a single shareholder with an officially verified signature, where there is no need for notary registration, that he withdraws one board member, and therefore I think it is right that the board of directors should always be at least three-members. Because if the board is one-man and the same person is also the statutory director, it lacks logic and basic sense why the monistic companies were being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u13	Thank you. Vice-President Filip is enrolled in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u14	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. Yes, it is true what the rapporteur said here that after we have some experience with the functioning of the Corporations Act, when the new Civil Code was adopted, the repealed Commercial Code, it is necessary to take a closer look at it. And it is certainly a good thing that after evaluation, even after some of the legal practices we will be dealing with this. But I would remind you that it is absolutely essential for the KSČM to adopt this standard, whatever the good for the future, that it will not eliminate the possibility of employees to be members of the Supervisory Board. This is simply a matter which is the limit for the final vote at third reading for us. I say this here at the beginning at first reading, so that we also formulate the debate in such a way that we will really monitor the interest of working in specific equity companies, whether they are owned by individuals or municipalities, regions or states, so that they can be represented there. Because if that were not the case, we would, of course, have to consider it a step that is contrary to our constitutional order and restricts workers' rights to participate in the administration of what they create. That's for starters. With regard to the individual provisions of the draft Commercial Corporations Act, the KSČM will, of course, actively promote the changes that lead to more efficient corporate governance in order to contribute to the expansion of the possibilities of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u15	Thank you. I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention here to the fact that here I have heard some proposal for an extension of the deadline, but this must be done in the debate. The Chamber of Deputies may extend the period by 20 days; it may extend the period by more than 20 days only with the agreement of the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u16	I agree with the plaintiff that there should be an extension of 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u17	I will also formally ask the rapporteur to say this because we have to say this in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u18	So I propose that the time for committee discussions be extended by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u19	Okay. I don't see anyone else logged in. Sorry, I can see. prosit, Mr. Benda Marek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u20	Mr. Vice-President, I'm going to sign up. I originally prepared my opinion for my club to return to the applicant for revision, but I have to appreciate the Minister - this is probably the second time I appreciate him today - so I don't overdo it again - that he really was after his predecessor who kept writing something and mostly nobody knew why he was writing it, and no one knew what it was for, so the Minister is willing to communicate. And what was said here in the introductory words that we're really going to try to narrow the amendment down to what is absolutely necessary, that we're not going to do exhibition just so someone can say, "I've corrected the corporate law in so many and so many paragraphs," I appreciate that the minister has agreed to this thesis. I think we can win enough on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think we should take out the part that concerns housing cooperatives, respectively. SVJ, and to address the proposal that Minister Dostálová should perhaps bring and take the complex of housing issues. So if it's extended by 30 days, I think we can somehow finish it in that first semester. I would Filip recommend that the draft law, in addition to the constitutional law committee, which should undoubtedly monitor the legal issues, be directed to the Economic Committee. Because I think it would be more important for our colleagues from that sphere of economy to give us an answer, to what extent they consider it advantageous or disadvantageous, or to what extent they consider it a matter which is or is not useful for the functioning of companies rather than for us to judge it purely as a legal problem. So then I would like to ask if a commandment to the Economic Committee could still be proposed as a second committee. I'd consider it useful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u21	Thank you. Like a guarantee committee? [[Voices from the O.R. No.]] Normally, okay. No one is added to the debate, and I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u22	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I just really thank you very briefly for the fact that it seems to be heading towards the release for committee discussions. For the Ministry, I can promise maximum cooperation in discussing this proposal. As I firmly believe, the proposal will eventually succeed, because there are a number of things that reduce the administrative burden, and that is important for us. So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u23	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. I shall deal with the proposal for an extension of the 30-day time limit, which shall be agreed by the applicant. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 111, 164 Members and Members signed in for 137. The motion was accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? Mr. Pávek MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u24	Thank you for the floor. I believe that commercial corporations clearly fall within the competence of the Economic Committee, so I propose an economic committee as a guarantee committee. And if it doesn't pass as a guarantee, I suggest the Economic Committee as another committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u25	Thank you. Is there another suggestion? If not, we will vote on the commandment as a committee to the guarantee constitutional law committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 112, 164 Members and Members of Parliament signed up for 121. The motion was accepted. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u26	I'm sorry, but I'm not sure that the counterproposal wasn't to be voted first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-015-017.u27	Yes, it should have been. I made a mistake. I'm sorry. I find the vote confusing. We will vote on the counter-proposal, and this is a commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Voices from the O.R.]] It's a new vote. Who's against it? In voting order number 113, 164 Members and Members signed in for 29, against 68. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the commandment as a committee to the guarantee constitutional law committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 114, 164 Members and Members signed in for 137. The motion was accepted. I note that the bill has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but I have here a motion for a commandment to the Economic Committee. Is there another suggestion? It's not. I will have the commandment voted on as the next Committee on the Economic Committee. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 115, 164 Members and Members signed in for 137. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Economic Affairs as another committee. We've dealt with this press. I'll read the apologies. Mr Petr Třešňák from 18.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Klaus from 18.15 to 19.00 for personal reasons and Mr Milan Chovanec from 18.00 to the end of the sitting day for health reasons. The next point is
