ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 245 and 246 of the House prints 113 and 114/ It is an annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2016, House press 113, and annual report on the management of Czech Television in 2016, House press 114. Before the midday break, we interrupted the merged general debate on these two points. Mr Valenta's speech was suspended. I ask that the rapporteurs of the electoral committee, Mr Petr Dolínek and Mrs Barbora Kořánová, take the seats at the rapporteur's table. [[There are voices from the bench: Kořanová.]] Mrs Barbora Kořanová. I'm gonna say it a few more times, and I'm gonna be able to do it. We will therefore now continue with the suspended merged general debate, where I am giving the floor to Mr Valent, who was interrupted before the midday break. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I won't keep much longer, I'll just finish my performance. In conclusion, I would like to ask two basic questions. The first may sound like this: Is the user today able to assess the real economic situation of Czech Television solely on the basis of the reports of the Czech Television Council? My answer is that if these reports are viewed from the perspective of the user of the accounts, I must say that there is a need for considerable economic and legal knowledge as well as experience in the management of broadcasters in order to obtain from them the relevant economic data necessary for parliamentary decision-making and objective parliamentary decision-making. [[18.00 hours]] The second question is similar. Is the user able to adequately assess the quality of management of Czech TV based solely on annual management reports? And my answer. Available information in the annual reports on the management of Czech Television is not provided with sufficiently well-founded information on the basis of which the user could adequately assess the quality of the management of Czech Television. And if, according to these reports, the Czech Television Council also decides, for example, when granting a financial annual bonus, if you want the annual remuneration to the Director-General of Czech Television, it is necessary to say publicly - well, hello. Two and a half million crowns, namely 2,420,000, a full annual bonus of ten times the monthly salary of the Director-General will be awarded to Mr Dvořák on the basis of a vote on the Council and this year. When I heard that the criteria for granting such a high to outrageous remuneration were - maintaining a balanced budget, quality and level of broadcasting and programmes, fulfilling management duties and the level of the audience's audience share on the television market - I was very surprised. Especially the last criterion I was most interested in. In the past, when I argued from this point of decreasing audience of Czech Television, thunders of lightning flew at me that Czech TV is a public institution and the audience should not be watched by this institution. That's what commercial stations are available for us here. I think that was the case at the time, for example, by Mr Martin Kolovratník and some others, especially those on the right. Well, so be it, but he doesn't fully fulfill his management responsibilities. At least dozens of complaints from citizens do not suggest this to the Czech Television Council. I have already mentioned the artificial maintenance of a balanced budget in my report. And not only the complaints of dealers, suspiciously concluded and disadvantageous contracts, but also the managerial inability to correct the often rude, arrogant and humanly insulting appearance of some television workers illustrates the current situation on Czech television. So many from my side a few short notes on selected phenomena related to reports on the management of Czech Television in general. However, I certainly did not mention all that is on my mind. But I will not take the wind out of the sails of other climbers, who are certainly responsible for this point being prepared. Thank you for your attention and I believe that we will not approve this report together and will also end once and for all with complete formalism, which is the House process of approving all reports relating to Czech television for many years. This is not only to the detriment of the Czech Television itself, but especially to the detriment of all concessionaries of the public service media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u3	Have a good evening. So now another Member will speak in the general debate... ah, one factual one, before I have said it. So the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u4	Of course, I don't want to take anybody's right to perform and listen patiently. However, I want to say that, in particular, these reports that we are discussing now have already been discussed and approved twice in the electoral committee. In the last House and in this House. And, of course, when I look at the time and the number of applicants, it's possible that we won't get to that, but I'd like to consider all the performers. I think those who are ready to vote against will vote against, and we who have the opposite opinion will not convince them. They won't convince us either, so we'll see. However, Vice-President, I would like to announce that before the final vote, our club will take a break to be here in sufficient numbers, because this is not the usual meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And some meetings, which were arranged at 18.00, 18.30, 19.00, simply could not be canceled. However, colleagues are prepared to come to the vote itself when the vote approaches. I'm calling it ahead enough so you don't feel like it's some kind of obstructive behavior or anything. It's hard to guess when a break like this would take place. I say, only after the end of the debate with all the expressive, factual comments, if any, final words. Then I'd ask for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u5	So let me get this straight. She is a merged debate, so before the vote on paragraph 113. Because there are 113, 114, merged debates - after the end of the merged debate and after the final words. That's pretty clear. And now I will ask for the speech of Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Lubomír Španěl will prepare himself. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies quickly. So Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologizes for today's meeting from 18 to 19.30 for working reasons, and Mrs Karla Šlechtová from 18 o'clock for family reasons until the end of the meeting day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank my colleague Stanjur, by your means, that he has fairly admitted here that the ODS Members give a crap about the views and arguments of their fellow Members in the Chamber of Deputies, that their opinion is clear that it is completely unnecessary to have a debate and that they are simply going to have a resting party here and come to the vote. However, I think that we are faced with a rather crucial decision, because sooner or later, according to all the information that has been said here, there is really going to be a situation on Czech television, which also colleagues from the ODS will have to deal with actively here, and by having to engage themselves in this debate and in resolving the future economic situation of Czech Television. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me read here the text of the statement I made here at the House Press Centre about six months ago. This statement, which, by the way, the Czech Television filmed, but somehow forgot to broadcast it, is one of the results of the work, which was also attended by colleague Ivana Nevludová and colleague Marian Bojko. Our activity consisted mainly of obtaining information from public sources, such as the register of contracts or minutes from the meeting of the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and we also drew on interviews with former and current Czech Television staff. Eventually, we consulted with economists, auditors and lawyers. In particular, because we have been drawing from publicly available sources, I find it rather striking the willingness of members, for example, of the pirate party, who are famous for their fair and incorruptible fight against corruption, to raise their hand for the final reports on the management of Czech Television, when there is information that clearly indicates the possibility of corrupt behaviour, which I assumed was very sensitive to by the members of the pirate party. So now the text of the declaration itself. This statement, which the Czech Television filmed, and although it was information that one of the constitutional officials filed a criminal complaint towards Czech Television and towards the management of Czech Television, not only did it not broadcast it, but in no way tried to obtain further relevant information. It is no secret that Czech Television can finance its current operation by around 2021. The entire House knows, the workers and TV management know, the Czech Television Council knows, everyone knows. Everyone's pretending they can't see it. When the current CEO took over the Czech Television in 2012, the institution had a financial reserve of approximately CZK four billion. Since then, despite the annual roughly six-billion-dollar income from licence fees, the value of all her assets has been steadily decreasing. And to make matters worse, today, i.e. in 2019, it already has hundreds of million liabilities due in 2021, 2022 and 2023, and according to some information, even in 2024. Briefly summarized, Czech Television lives on debt, its assets disappear somewhere, but management and the Czech Television Council claim that everything is okay. That this is the result of long-term balanced and healthy management. If our households and companies were to manage this healthily and balanced, there is famine in the Czech Republic. The financial reserve, i.e. less than four billion already mentioned, will be definitively irrecoverable by the end of 2021, and Czech television will get into financial trouble. It's the only thing that could be considered serious. But the whole reality is much worse. There are many very specific indications that there is serious economic crime on Czech television, in which not only some members of its top management are probably involved, but also members of the Czech Television Council. And even, which is particularly alarming, also members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, even in the highest positions. Whether the whole activity is active for all participants in their involvement or only - and please only take this in quotation marks - and thus abuse their public functions is not yet entirely clear. However, the fact that they know about the facts suggesting illegal conduct and do not do so is beyond any doubt. There is therefore no way to prevent the suspicion that the process of financial loss, but also of other assets on Czech television, is controlled and is intended to result in its rapid sale. And as we all know, fast sales are usually below-priced. [[18.10 hours]] Since I have already exhausted all the real possibilities of preventing the further liquidation of Czech Television, I have no choice but to give appropriate incentives to law enforcement authorities in this situation. In these are described individual cases and supported by specific data. Damages range in hundreds of millions or even units of billions. If suspicion is confirmed, which is very likely, we will witness economic crime not only with great damage, but above all with the unprecedentedly large and well-organised involvement of people operating in many spheres of our society, in the leadership of the most influential media in the country, in its audit bodies, in the top levels of politics, but also in artistic circles and business. Such a connection makes the whole thing a matter of extraordinary social importance, and this will also be in line with the police services and other institutions to which I will pass on my findings. If there is no immediate and rapid solution to the current situation, in a year or two at the latest, we will only have the following options available. 1. Basic restrictions on the operation of the CT and related redundancies of ČT employees. 2. Instant sale of Czech TV into private hands. 3. Transferring television under the administration of the state. I mention this option practically only for order, because it will in fact not be feasible for time reasons. 4. Instant and significant increases in licence fees. This option is also relatively time-consuming, but at least for me it is completely unacceptable for another reason. I do not consider it possible to ask citizens to bear the costs of bad or even illegal management, which also consciously involved senior constitutional officials, i.e. people whom citizens have chosen and pay to represent their interests. There are many opinions on Czech TV in society. One group of citizens claims that without public television, the world would end, the other one would like to sell it again, and that it would get rid of it forever. Both of these opinions are legitimate and we can and will probably also discuss them. The economic collapse to which Czech television is undoubtedly heading today, but it is not in the interest of any of these groups. Something like this would only come in handy to someone who would like to buy it and pay as little as possible for it. Sales of the company in economic difficulties and in time constraints are always advantageous only for the buyer, which we have seen in the past in many other, originally prosperous and suddenly strangely bankrupt enterprises. In this context, I would just like to remind you that there are still some of the most lucrative land in Prague in addition to technology, real estate and broadcasting licenses. So whatever opinion we have on public television, none of us are interested in having an economic collapse. That is why I am asking all those who have information about the matter, namely television workers, to assist the law enforcement authorities as much as possible. Czech television is now in a situation where it has been privatized by a relatively small and well-organized group of individuals who have not paid a crown for it and yet use it to fulfil their political, but above all economic interests. This must be stopped immediately, because this is contrary not only to the interests of all of us but also to the law. This is the end of the whole statement, which no media has informed about in any way, and the text has gone somewhere in the CTK where we sent the whole text. One thing has changed since then. The criminal notification was indeed filed and I, as the notifier, was informed by law that the competent authorities had begun to take action on the matter. Of course, I'm not gonna quote exactly here from the criminal report, because I might be putting the investigation in jeopardy. However, I think that a brief description of its small part, containing only basic information that is available from public sources in most of it, cannot endanger the investigation and at the same time sufficiently shows not only what is actually happening on Czech television today, but mainly that the Czech Television Council has long failed to fulfil its legal obligation, which is primarily the control of the legal and efficient management of Czech television. Example 1. Exchange of economic and operational system for Czech television. Since 2013, according to my information, Czech Television has not paid support for the economic and operational system of SAP R/3. However, this system is still in operation, which means that the ČT will have to pay a penalty in addition to the upgrade, in the order of millions of crowns. Furthermore, this means that the system does not reflect any legislative changes that have taken place since 2013. At the same time, Czech Television purchased the economic and operational system HELIOS Green from Asseco Solutions for 32 700 330 crowns. The selection procedure for this shipment was cancelled several times and re-written until the company was won. However, attempts to put the system into service revealed that it is not functional enough and that it cannot handle the environment of a giant such as Czech Television. The management of Czech Television therefore decided that the implementation will be assisted by Leading, s. r. o., despite the fact that an amendment was concluded with the original supplier, i.e. the company Asseco Solutions, a. s. And how did the whole thing go? The costs have already exceeded the substantially competitive amount, in the form of many additional contracts, concluded this time except for one of course again a very suspicious exception without tenders. To date, internal employees of Czech Television are mainly working on the implementation of the whole system, thus increasing the originally competitive price again, by the internal costs of these employees. It's already alarming. But if anybody thinks that's the end of it, it's a big mistake. The whole system still does not work fully, as the director of Czech Television confirmed. Two systems have been running simultaneously in the CT for several years: SAP R/3 without support and problematic functioning HELIOS. In practice, it works by continuously tilting data from unsupported SAP into HELIOS. This, of course, disproportionately burdens the employees of Czech Television. But the main problem is elsewhere. Such a procedure means lasting migration of a huge amount of data. And every IT expert will confirm to you that it is practically impossible for data not to be lost or errors to occur with such amount of data. And here I remind you that these are data related to operational statements and accounting. What does it mean if we translate everything into an understandable form? It means that the CT somehow manages, somehow charges, and no one will probably ever know exactly how everything went and goes, because many data are lost. Taking into account available total economic data on the Czech Republic, it cannot even be ruled out that this is a deliberate and planned process. That this is a law-abiding procedure, but it is obvious in any case. However, the most interesting thing about the whole thing is what the Czech Television Board reports on this process for several years. They don't say anything. Either the Czech Television Council doesn't know anything, and then it fails substantially, or it doesn't want to know anything, and then it fails even more. Example number 2 is the company Leica Gallery and the conflict of interests of the CEO of ČT Dvořák, which we also discussed in several times mentioned meeting with the CEO of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Television. Czech Television CEO Petr Dvořák is a proven co-owner and chairman of Leica Gallery's Board of Directors, where his wife is the second co-owner of the company. The fact that the CEO of the Czech Republic is also a member of the statutory body and co-owner of the company that trades in art means that he deals with activities related to the activities of Czech Television is contrary to the law. For additions only, the said company has an annual turnover of tens of millions of crowns. If anyone is wondering if Czech Television is by any chance helping its CEO's company, for example by posting ads on its activities, you can, just as I did, enter the name of this company into a search engine, write Leica Gallery ČT 24. And I suggest you do it sitting down, because the search result is truly stunning. These are numbers moving in thousands. Yes, so many times Czech Television has been advertising the company's CEO of Czech Television and his wife in its broadcast. It is also interesting how much Czech Television has faked its CEO for this advertisement. According to the statement of the Director General of Czech Television and the President of the Council of Czech Television, it was a total of zero Czech crowns. That's a really nice discount. [[18.20 hours]] And the most interesting thing again is what the Czech Television Council reports on the mutual trade cooperation between public television and its director's company. Yes, you're guessing right, they're not saying anything again. The Czech Television Council is not worth the slightest attention to this multiple violation of the law, where Czech TV is the victim, and therefore all dealers. The Czech Television Council probably doesn't have time for this because it has more important things to do. For example, how high bonuses agree to the Director-General for proper management or for excellent setting of control mechanisms in the context of Czech Television's management. The remuneration of the CEO in the context of the economic results of Czech Television is another interesting thing. In addition to his salary, he received an exceptional premium of CZK 14.5 million, and then, probably as an equivalent of the railway deputation, free advertising for his company on the Czech television broadcast. I think, as a manager's reward for loss-making, which there is clear evidence, and which has been confirmed by colleagues here, from whom I really didn't expect it, that's not bad at all. So these are two very briefly described cases of many, which contain a rather extensive criminal report, which I mentioned about six months ago. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the current Council of Czech Television does not fulfil its function as a supervisory body, in a long-term and absolutely fundamental way. As representatives of the public, we are obliged to address this situation as required by the law and as promised by all of us in the parliamentary promise. I believe that if anything is in the interests of all the people, it is economical and legal management of public money. The situation in which we are now remembers also the Czech Television Act, which allows the Chamber of Deputies to call off the Czech Television Council and choose a new one. I think it would now be appropriate to quote a part of this provision here: The Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Council fails repeatedly to fulfil its obligations under this law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row the annual report on the activities of Czech Television or the annual report on the management of Czech Television. I therefore propose not to approve the Czech Television Council's reports on the management of Czech Television in 2016 and 2017, because these are documents which are highly likely to cover criminal activity. Subsequently, appeal to the Council of Czech Television and elect a new one as quickly as possible, which will be able and mainly willing to do what the law requires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u7	Now, I have one point of fact here, so Mrs Miroslava Němcová will perform. Mr. Secretary? Madame de facto, Minister, do you also wish de facto? So, Mrs Němcová, then the Minister will be prepared and then, as a standard, Mr Španěl. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, about the information that was given by my previous speaker regarding the possible conflict of interests of the CEO of Czech Television by being a member of the Board of Directors of the Leica Gallery. So I would like to say, because I have obtained information about this, that during the time of Petr Dvořák's participation in the Czech Television management, Czech Television has not entered into any commercial contract with Leica Gallery Prague or otherwise supported its activities or the operation of this gallery. Czech Television broadcasted regular news reports, 16 of them, and similarly informed about the Václav Špála Gallery from 2016 to 2019 or 11 contributions about Fait Gallery in Brno. Hundreds of contributions and reports of this type can be found, it is a common agenda of news in the cultural area. I would also like to say that in addition to Petr Dvořák being on the board of this gallery, it is necessary to add that he is also a member of the Board of Directors of the National Theatre, the Czech Technical University or a member of the Community of owners of Povltavská 5, and informed the Council of Czech Television about all these facts in his CV, which he presented together with his candidacy as CEO. So much for this information, which refutes what was said a moment ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u9	I will now ask for the speech of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared for the de facto. So far, these applications are here. Minister, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u10	Thank you. It's just, I still feel like we're still spinning in circles, and I'm trying to understand what there are reservations about the management. In fact, there's still a problem that's intensely suggesting here, and I'm trying to figure out what it is, but-- you understand? What I see here is always the same. The basis is 2008, is that yes, or 2011 when the state of the Czech TV account showed, or I think it was in 2008, when the state of the account showed 3.68 - sorry, in 2011, the state of the Czech TV account showed, say 3.7 billion crowns. It is falsely said that it was the result of some great management of those who were there before because Dvořák started in 2011. But the fact is that it is not, because the amount of this cash flow was created by something completely different, by increasing the licence fee and also by limiting advertising. But it didn't start to apply until 2011. Until then, TV had realized 1.5 billion on those contracts every year. After that year 2011, it only implemented 0.6 billion. So that's where she collected the 3.7. That's one thing. That's how the money got there. And the second thing if it's said that then somehow it worked out, but from the numbers that I have at my disposal, what I understand about it is that, despite the money being there, it's not true that it was eating. There was really 90 per cent of the licence fees, 10 per cent of the business, the money was used, and I can say this in more detail if it is not enough, as I said here today, and they were actually used to pay the studio in Brno, that the children's channel, which today is one of the most watched in Europe, had become so successful in the meantime, was being repaired by the Kavčí Mountains, which are very neglected, there was such a situation that everything had to be exchanged, and let's say also investment in Ostrava... [[Time.]] So I still don't understand what the breakthrough is, the breakthrough--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u11	Time. Now, on the point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný, so far, last point of fact. Mr Lubomír Španěl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Through you to your colleague The Němcová just so much that it is a pity that you did not participate in the seminar because you would know that all the arguments you have made here have also been heard at the seminar and have been refuted in a relatively simple and logical way again, because apparently, both here through the President and the Minister of Culture can find in his records from this meeting that the director at the seminar claimed that he had informed the Council of Czech Television and the President of the Council of Czech Television of his conflict of interest had not confirmed this. And I'm still using a word that's very mild. I personally asked the President of the Czech Television Council and the other members of the Czech Television Council, and it never said that they were informed of this conflict of interest. It also leaves me so coldly calm that the director is a member of the National Theatre Supervisory Board, because it is not an organization that his wife would co-own and for which he would make some sort of commercial money. The point is that he's a member or chairman of the board of directors of an organization where his wife makes commercial money, and that's not okay, that's a clear conflict of interest. All the arguments that you are making here, including the number of commercials broadcast in the form of product placement on Leica Gallery, are currently very hard to verify, because at the moment we informed about this at this seminar, the numbers began to fluctuate sharply during the normal search and I am not sure if the information you received is true. I don't think they're true. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u13	He will respond - the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek applied to the facts. Please, Minister, your two minutes. Last application so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u14	It's good to get this straight. I was looking at the supervisory committee report, if we're talking about Leica Gallery. And that's where I found out there were two business contracts, one for 1,000 crowns and one for 1,500 crowns. So in eight years, we're going to find two business deals between Leica Gallery and Czech TV, and I don't know if it was filming there, one for CZK 1,000 and the other for CZK 1,500. Those are the only business contracts for eight years that were on Leico Gallery. That's all we're talking about, that's all I could find.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u15	Mr Lubomír Volný will now respond to the factual remark. And for the record, Mrs Červíčková cancels her apology because she is here. Mr. Freeman, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u16	I would like, through Mr President, to thank the Minister of Culture for reminding me of one of those points that I did not respond to in my introductory speech. Yes, Leica Gallery didn't pay Czech TV for advertising. Leica Gallery got this commercial for free. I've recently learned from you today that maybe 2,500 crowns. What is the real value of the advertising received free of charge by a company whose owner is the wife of the CEO of Czech Television, we will learn only in the case of the processing of some clear expert opinion. Until then, I see it as a conflict of interest, when using the product placement method in the Czech Television broadcast, the company of the wife of the CEO of Czech Television obtained an unauthorized performance free of charge. And I see a clear conflict of interest, because the Czech Television Council never confirmed that it had been informed of this conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u17	Mr Zaorálek, the Minister of Culture, will now respond and prepare for Mrs Nevludová's actual decision. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u18	Yes, but I've read the information, and now correct me if I'm wrong that the board says she's always had information about it. It's not true she hasn't been informed. And you understand, it's eight years from now. I was in that gallery once, so I remember her. Go check it out. This is a small photographic gallery, quite famous in Prague. He's one of those four. Mrs. Dvořák, as far as I know, worked there long before. And go take a look and tell yourself how much money there's going to be. That's a little funny. This isn't business. It's a little photo gallery. And the contracts I've been talking about speak for everything, one for 1,000, one for 1,500.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u19	I now have three factual points, so Mrs Nevludová, President Volný and Mr Plzák. Madam, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u20	Thank you for the floor. Let's get this ownership thing straight. Leica Gallery owns the company LGP Services and there Mr. Dvořák has it halfway with his wife, each owner is 50 percent. Maybe they haven't met yet, because I've been looking at the Collection of Bills that have profit and loss accounts and balance sheets there. They're missing the 2018 balance sheet, the profit and loss report, so they probably haven't arranged a general meeting at home yet. However, I also found during further examination that Mr Dvořák should perhaps replace his accountant, because there is a copy of the annex from year to year and in 2017 the accountant did not even copy the header, there are some data that remained there from 2016. So it's probably just for fun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u21	Now, on a point of fact... Minister, you will have to wait a moment, because first there is Mr. Volný Member, Mr. Plzák, and then Mr. Minister. So Mr Volný for de facto, Mr Pavel Plzák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u22	Thank you. I would like to ask you, Mr President, the Minister of Culture, to quote us now from the record available to him from our seminar, where and how the Director General was asked whether he had informed the Council of Czech Television about the conflict of interest. And I would like him to quote me here exactly when it happened and by whom that the Czech Television Council confirmed that it was officially informed of the conflict of interests of the Director-General. You have it at your disposal, you keep arguing, so I'd like to ask you to read it to me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u23	Otherwise, you can address the Minister directly, and the Members address themselves through the President. So the Minister and the Minister can address us directly. So now, Mr Pavel Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u24	Thank you. My colleague Volný said what I wanted to say. After all, there were a lot of witnesses who witnessed a direct question of whether the chairman of the board and the other councillors had been informed whether he knew about this conflict of interest, so the chairman of the board said - I have heard about it somewhere. But for a direct question, he said he wasn't informed. And everyone who was at that seminar can testify to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u25	Now, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u26	I'm only going to say one thing that seems essential to me. When I looked, the information from Leica Gallery's annual reports means that the gallery carries out a half-million-dollar loss every year despite all the sponsorship. So he loses half a million each year despite sponsoring. I think this might be good enough for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u27	I don't have another factual point yet. And she jumped. So, Mr. MP Lubomír Volný. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u28	I'd just like to say that with half a million dollars lost, very successful businessmen were able to manage that half a million dollars loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u29	So now I have no further factual point, so I am giving the floor to Mr Lubomír Španěl and Mr Milan Feranec will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. Mr Janulík will be prepared for Mr Španěl because he has applied to the facts. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I go into what I have prepared, I will also respond briefly to Minister Zaorálek, who said in his morning entry that Czech television is a rarity in the number of channels. But, Minister, through Mr President, has anyone asked the concessionaires how many channels they want to set up? Okay, so let's give them 20 channels, and the concession fee will be CZK 1,000 a month. We can order anything and then force the law to pay for it. So that's not how I'd see it. Today there is such an overpressure of channels that I do not know why Czech TV should have more and more channels. Now, get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say something about Czech Television's reports, especially about the management report, based on the impressions of the conference or meeting with representatives of Czech Television, led by the Director General, and there were several representatives of the Television Council. There were many questions, I will skip over all, which dealt certainly with a very interesting party in Karlovy Vary organized for the money of dealers or perhaps various conflicts of interest and suspicious ties to some companies. I was personally attracted to other people. Not that the others are meaningless, no way, but it's for a different, more extensive debate. The question was raised during the debate and sounded as simple as this: How does such a report emerge about the economics of Czech Television, something like a timeline? To be honest, there would be nothing special about the question itself. Interesting was the answer given by the chairman of the board to another colleague, although I know the name, but it is now irrelevant. He said it this way: Management of Czech Television always prepares the outlines of the report. - You have to admit, this sounds very credible. [[18.40 hours]] However, it did not just remain on the curriculum. The management of Czech television will provide the numbers, it sort of resulted from the discussion, that was not exactly the way it was, but just to bring it closer. Finally, management will add the lyrics to the report. That was exactly what was said. The Council is said to be discussing this and pointing out. At that moment, I was alerted, and I couldn't help but suspect that something was wrong. This is to be a control body that oversees a billion-dollar institution? As a businessman, for example, when the tax office checked, they didn't ask me for any curriculum. I've had a hard look at my books, and if they found a mistake, I've been mercilessly fined. Then another question was raised from the auditorium, or rather a call for the present members of the board to briefly describe each one's share of the management report. Everyone who was there, so you know that the councillor obviously didn't want much, but after a while, they were timidly into it. Many answers were in style: I have other tasks on the board, rather to work on. Honestly, it can be understood that there are no economists on the council. But why, then, do they make these reports their work? Those who actually produce these reports have basically not learned all day. Now I had a sentence that my fellow censor knocked me out. I'll just say it on the basis of Mr. Faltýnek's speech, since you're already smiling. You said a board like that was studying the 20-minute management report -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u31	Please address each other as Members through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u32	- through Mr President. And I myself am a member of the election committee, and President Standa Berkovec will forgive me for saying that we are dealing with the report well, so be it, two hours, I don't think so. So, yes, now I'm gonna say the sentence. I ask, " Are these messages a farce so the wolf eats and the goat stays whole?" Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that Czech Television manages the money of dealers, i.e. with the money of most citizens of the Czech Republic? For Professor Válek, through the President - households. These citizens have to pay because they are required by the law. The question is whether the board itself has the power to control the management of this money for citizens as governed by the law. Why did I and many others present at the seminar feel that the director of the ČT and the chairman of the board were defending the same goal? It's like it's not even a control and a controlled subject. I ask: Hasn't the time come to entrust control of the Czech Television's economy to the Supreme Audit Office? Hasn't the time even ripened to change the way public media finance is financed? What can I say in conclusion? Yes, many questions have been asked, either no answers or evasive. I personally was not convinced by the seminar, and therefore I will not support the reports on ČT's management. And I firmly believe that other Members across the House will find courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u33	That was Mr. Španěl. And now here I have applications for three factual notes. So first, Mr Janulík, Mr Volný and then Mr Dolínek. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u34	Good evening, colleagues. Well, I wasn't at the seminar, but, of course, I also read the records. Even Minister Zaorálek wasn't there, but with all due respect, I find it very comical that the Minister is doing such a great job of defending some sort of pidigalery around here somewhere - that's one point of view. In my opinion, which is gynecology, I'm going to say, you're saying that the gallery had a loss and all, and it's not that much of a conflict of interest. Well, it either is or it isn't. A woman is either pregnant or not pregnant! She just can't be very pregnant or very pregnant. It just is or it isn't. This is a conflict of interest, like that really par excellence. And I don't understand that the CEO, who, I mean, I think he's a pretty smart guy for doing such a stupid thing. Why? Oh, my God, does he need this? It's my question. Why does he do such a thing, it's such a trivial thing to track. And on the other hand, you say, but they're there fifteen hundred crowns and so on. Well, I'd like to have a commercial like that and a product placement for that one-man little girl of mine on Czech TV. I'd bend for that. That would blow up three of my annual turnovers to get me there. So I think it's pointless to step on it, that it's just the thing that's clear. This is where we're talking about the money, nothing else, the profit and loss account. I ran some organizations, too. And when I look at the profit and loss account -- well, my friends, I'd like to have a veg like Director Dvořák, and run a seven-billion-dollar budget, like lala and no one's really checking up on me, and I'm gonna do whatever I want there. It's just every manager's dream in a state-owned or semi-state enterprise that you've got that kind of income that you're going through because we all have to pay for it, because that's the law. And then - [[Attention on time.]] And so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u35	Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Petr Dolínek will be prepared. Mr Martínek, Mr Kobza. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u36	Thank you. I would like to thank my colleague Janulík, because he has prepared the ground for me beautifully. On the other hand, I would like to warn him not to become accused in a case of prejudice, because Brusel may explain very quickly that even a man can get pregnant. And maybe even partially. However, just so we all know what we're all talking about here, I'll read you the Code of Czech Television article. 22.1. The conflict of interests of employees and external collaborators of Czech Television is inadmissible. Persons working for Czech Television must exclude personal interest from affecting broadcasting or not transmitting certain communications or programmes. Anyone who might put himself in doubt, doubting a conflict of interest on a particular question, is obliged to notify his superior and await his decision. The Director-General shall inform the Council of Czech Television of such a fact in the case of his/her person and await its recommendation. - Where's the recommendation? A conflict of interest already arises where doubts may arise if there are doubts as to the impartiality or bias of the person involved in the preparation of the content of the programme, regardless of whether there are any spectators or entities about which information is obtained. In particular, doubts about impartiality or bias arise when a person receives information - no, a moment - when a person receives or receives certain benefits or benefits from a member, contractual or conflicting relationship, or otherwise participates in such an entity. That connection also occurs if it can relate to the immediate human circle of the person involved in the preparation of the report. For example, family members, life partner, possibly. the closest members. So I would like to know where the Czech Television Annual Reports state the decision on the recommendation of the ČT Council towards the Director-General of the Czech Television, who informed about his conflict of interest. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u37	I will now request Mr Dolínek's speech and Mr Martínek will be prepared for a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u38	Thank you. I always regret the wives of those politicians, managers and directors that if they were cleaning, it's the only job to satisfy everyone. Because Mrs. Witowská was at a slum when her husband was head of the Transport Company in Prague, if she has the right to interview at all. And I don't think anybody can question Mrs Witowská as a professional. My wife was a spokesperson for Česká spořitelna for many years when I was active in the city and the city had billions there, a transport company billions. I don't know if my wife, the press secretary, could have made sure that the billions were in Prague. She had them in front of me, she had them after me, and then someone could come in and say "satra," his press secretary secured the billions there. I think everyone here will confirm that this is completely stupid. Hardly. [[18.50 hours]] So I'm just saying that I feel very sorry for the partners of those who are in those public positions, because then we get into this situation where we are, although I understand that some formalism should be fulfilled. If it wasn't, it needs to be dealt with, but please let's leave aside the partners who often need to do some work because we don't pay the partners in the salary of the managers. And as for what has been said here by a fellow Španěl. You know, those reports are being discussed on the committee as long as the committee members want to discuss them and have questions. Mr. Španěl has spoken here more recently than in his entire stay on the committee in two years. So let's just imagine what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u39	I will now request a speech to Mr Tomáš Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u40	Thank you. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity that we have experts here on conflicts of interest such as Mr Janulík. And maybe I should ask to get that clarification, since we already have the YES and Mr Janulík movement here, if he thinks there is a conflict of interest, when we have, for example, a prime minister of a country whose company, which is a beneficiary, is completely sucked into the absolute number of ministries in the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic using contracts, sets people where they need to be, who decide on those contracts. Whether this is a conflict of interest or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u41	I will now request Mr Jiří Kobza's speech and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared, so far the last two factual applications I have here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u42	Thank you, Mr President. As a man who had a small company and had been in business since practically 1992 when I returned to Bohemia, there was one thing that stopped me here at the information I heard here. And if Leica Gallery was getting advertising space at a very friendly price, I'd be very interested in what the Financial Administration said. Because I know that all the services you put in your accounts must be at a reasonable price, and if they are not, then up to a reasonable price, it is added. And what I'm hearing here, if that information is, of course, based on the truth, I have to admit, I'm quite surprised, because at least as far as my business is concerned, the Financial Administration hasn't been very close to us, and there we really had to document everything and everything had to be delivered. So I'm really surprised at this. And if we're based on the Financial Administration, which de facto covers tax evasion, then where are we, gentlemen and ladies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u43	I will now ask for Mr Luboš Volný's speech on a factual basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u44	I would like to see you through, Mr President, to Mr Dolínek. I am not trying to inform here in any way about the conflict of interests of the wife of the CEO of Czech Television. I inform about the conflict of interests of the CEO of Czech Television, who he has not demonstrated to the Council of Czech Television, because, as we have read, there would have to be a recommendation to address this situation from the Czech Television Council towards the Director-General of Czech Television and should exist, so I see it, a clear and official document proving that the Director-General has informed about this conflict of interest - not of the conflict of interests of his wife, but of this personal conflict of interest - the Council of Czech Television, which was supposed to make recommendations on this. And the rest of my time, I'm gonna use it to ask colleagues on the part of pirates who are specialized in conflict of interest, as they try to prove to us here in almost every performance. They have an image of the anti-corruption party, the motto of which was "Let us on them" although sometimes in Prague today it looks more like "Let us on them" which you succeeded. And I'm simply asking you not to be hypocrites, and when you see and hear here information that there is a conflict of interest and that there is potentially corrupt behavior, that you do not protect Czech TV just because it is ideologically related to you. To be equally objective and measure all the same subway. Just do your job as you would for the Prime Minister of this country. Continue with both. I don't mind either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President Tomio Okamura has asked for a factual comment. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u46	I will respond to Mr Dolínek from ČSSD so that everyone understands, because we will enjoy the video when we distribute it. You said and bragged, Mr. Luboš Španěl from the SPD is getting off less than you on the committee or something, it's not important, so you said it, and we see how it is about work. So here I am saying - I perform much more often than all ČSSD MPs! So we can see what's going on with your job! You don't work here at all, according to your circumstances!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr Vice-President, you have raised another factual remark by Mr Petr Dolínek. Quiet in the House, please. Mr Petr Dolínek made a point of fact before his colleague Feranc. You have your word. If you want to talk from the bench, I'm gonna have to banish you into the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u48	Thank you. I am sorry, Mr Vice-President, through Mr President, that there may have been a misunderstanding. I didn't evaluate the work of individual members. I think President Stanjura here and quite explicitly yesterday or the day before yesterday said what's going on with the procedural vote, and to play the statistics, it's such nonsense. I am in favour of the fact that statistics do not really show the work of a Member. I merely said that when a Member of the Španěl here announced that we were barely paying attention to these reports, that it was formalism on the committee, just as the rapporteur said that we only deal with them as long as there were questions about it as long as it was discussed, and then President Berkovec had to vote. And Mr Španěl's speech on the report here was more extensive than on the committee. If my colleague The Španěl was opening these questions to the committee, so it may have been that, for example, the discussion of the report was interrupted, your formalism, as you call it, would not be Sunday, as you feel, and I do not feel that way, because I have always been answered for everything, and maybe in a month or two days, the report could be discussed further, and that the questions you ask here would be answered, that they are difficult. But, you know, the committee has one more crucial role to play. Management and the Czech Television Council are sitting on this committee. So that's where we can really get to the bottom of things. There are rapporteurs who know the reports very well, but they are not employees of the institution, nor are they on the board and cannot know all the procedures. There is a minister who responds within his knowledge and possibilities, but that is why they are committees and therefore the committee recommends something. So that was my reaction. And I don't want to compete with Mr. Okamura, because he's always very brilliantly prepared to perform in advance, and that's not how I work. We all have our own access to the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u49	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Lubomír wants to respond to the Španěl. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u50	Mr Dolínek, through Mr President, when I started my speech, I said that I have completely new impressions, knowledge and information from the seminar in progress. As much as I consider committee discussions or council to be formal, take it about that none of us, although not a specialist, is able to evaluate the seven-billion-dollar economy in no half-day or hour, please. And when I talk, leave it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u51	Now I see one point of fact, Mr Roman Kubíček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I am getting a little tired of this debate because, instead of reporting on the activities and management of Czech Television, it has turned into one that is working more or less. I would simply draw attention to the two circumstances that we can do in this Chamber of Deputies. We have two prints parked here, printing 360 and 229, which is a change in the constitutional law in relation to the Supreme Audit Office. And if the Supreme Audit Office could control the management of Czech television - and I do not anticipate whether with positive or negative results - we would not have to have such debates here. I draw attention to the fact that anyone who has met with any report from the Supreme Audit Office has always been accurate, clear, though not everyone liked it, and I insist that if we allow an extension of the authority of the Supreme Audit Office, we will not have to deal with such situations, and I think that we will also be thanked by the CEO of Czech Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u53	Now with another point of fact, so far the last, Mr Petr Dolínek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, so far the last deed I have here. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u54	I'm sorry. It's not to the news, it's to the system as my previous speaker spoke. Social democracy would welcome, for example, the 360 press for next week. He's not on the agenda for this meeting, but we can include the press in exceptional cases. He meets all the needs that are because he passed the committee before the second reading, which means that at the moment we can talk about it. But the worst things are rush stuff, which is why I think we could do this, but it's better to have everything ready for the November meeting. I think it needs to be said that there is a consensus, but it needs to be said that there is time for that law. So I hope that all clubs, as well as ČSSD, will see it as a priority, so that we can get rid of the law in the shortest possible terms so that Czech television and over 5.5 billions can really do it. annually from taxpayers' money to be controlled by the SAO. There is no conflict, I hope, across the House at present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact by Mr Roman Kubíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. He has passed the inspection committee, he is settled including the amendments and we have fulfilled what we have promised all parties. However, it is still parked in the Constitutional Legal Committee, which is why I do not insist on inclusion next week, but I would prefer the inclusion at the next proper meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. So we have been clear to the SAO and we can continue with Mr Milan Feranc's speech. My colleague Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u58	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the annual management report in my contribution. I hope that my contribution will not raise so many factual remarks, just out of respect for those who will still speak behind me, but if it does, I will be very happy to answer. The debate on the economics of Czech Television leads to one basic question: Is the budget of Czech Television or is it not balanced? We've been hearing this since this morning. What's the answer? When I take it from an accounting point of view, or de iure, he is balanced, because the cost is equal to the revenue, I deliberately say costs, revenues, not income, expenditure, that's a different category. But he really isn't balanced. That's what I'm saying. He's unbalanced. And even this kind of management can lead to a problem for Czech Television in some short term. It's a major problem. I'll explain why I'm saying this. I didn't get it from any audit. I looked at the company's balance sheet and profit and loss account, for those who don't know it, it's the tables in the annual management report on page 105 to 109 in 2016, and there I found simple numbers. I compared the amount of investment against depreciation from 2016, 2017, 2018. Such a basic rule applies, it is called simple reproduction, which means that investments should be at the level of depreciation. And when I look at the trend, in 2016, write-offs of 733 million. CZK 522 million investment. CZK - 75 per cent; in 2017 756, 415 - 54 per cent; in 2018 786, 401 - 51 per cent. It's dropping. And we know that depreciation, even if it's an accounting expense, is cash flow income, that's the clean money I'm getting. It would not have mattered if the investment had to be postponed, something failed to compete, we did not obtain a building permit, but then the difference between the amount of investment and depreciation would have to go into financial assets, it would have to increase financial assets. Where else, if it's money cash, is it income, where should they end up? But the problem is that financial assets, long-term or short-term, are falling. 2 billion in 2016 670 miles. CZK 2 billion in 2017 340 miles. CZK, in 2018 1 billion. 925 miles, in 2019 1 billion. 217 miles. On the basis of these logical figures and logical economic considerations, I argue that the budget is not really balanced and this method of management can cause a problem that will have to recover either some injections from the state budget or some drastic increase in licence fees. This assumption of mine would not have to apply if two conditions or one of them were to apply. The first condition that the numbers I pulled from the profit and loss account are not true. I don't suppose so. The auditor, Ernst & Young, checked it out, probably not. Second condition, where it would not apply, that normal economic laws do not apply on Czech television. I don't expect that either. It's a public institution, but it's still a company - costs, revenues. So once again, from this point of view, the company actually lives on the substance of the financial assets that were there. But Czech TV manages the money of dealers, with public money. And through the House, the public chose the authorities to control it. They're Members, it's the Election Committee, it's the ČT Council. The management report is important, but it says how we spent money in the past. More importantly, all of you who have been moving around a little bit in the economy, in the business, you know, the budget is how we can spend the money. The Czech Television budget is approved by the Czech Council. I'll show you, this is what the budget looks like, it's a publicly available material approved by the board, and on the basis of it, Czech Television is managing. [[illustrates the relevant material]] It's 34 pages, that's nice. The problem is that there are a lot of text, a lot of graphs, little numbers, very few numbers, ten very, very modest tables. When I look at a summary of the budget of 14 lines, revenue from business activity of about 9 lines, a breakdown of operational overhead costs of 29 lines, the balance sheet of this large company is on 14 lines and the profit and loss account in the budget, in the basis for approval, is about 8 lines. It's every businessman or s. r. o. that's really more complicated. And I'm considering that the budget is 6 billion. 670 miles. costs, I would not dare to approve a budget that I know so little about. I've approved a tenth of a hundredth of the company's budgets in my life, but I'm sure we've been doing a lot more than that. A lot more. I, for one, must commend the Czech Council for its transparent behaviour. That's right. I even found a record where they're discussing the budget. It's an entry from 12. 12. 2018 and there is also audio recording. I listened to him, it was very interesting. And for me, it was a shocking discovery that the Czech Council is discussing the budget of 6.67 billion. 25 minutes - stop, stop, stop. [[Strongly.]] 25 minutes, from the discussion where one councilman asked, 6 minutes. Maybe they're geniuses. I could never do it like that. Maybe they're geniuses. Now what about it? [[19.10 hours]] My colleague Faltýnek here said: let's stop worrying about the past, the management reports, it's already been accounted for, it's been spent, let's talk about the future, how we can do it better, or what elected representatives of the dealers can do a little better, whether there's at least some control. I am not in the business, I am not in the business at all, so I took the liberty of preparing an accompanying resolution on the Annual Report on Czech Television's Management in 2016. Then I will join him in a detailed debate. And the resolution would be: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. Calls on the Election Committee to discuss the Annual Report on Czech Television's Management in 2018 and subsequent years (a) he thoroughly examined the management of Czech Television, including individual cost items; (b) even using the services of an external consultant independent of Czech Television, analyzed the long-term sustainability of Czech TV's management, without the need to increase licence fees; (c) asked the Czech Television Council to check compliance with the Czech Television Public Procurement Act; II. Recommends to the Council of Czech Television, when approving the budget for 2020 and for the following years, to examine closely and with due care the various budget appropriations, in order to make effective use of the funds received from the concessionaires.' It is an appeal to our elected representative, a representative of the public, to really pay attention to this when discussing such essential things, because, Councillor ČT, I really think that 6 billion 670 million Czech concessionaire money is worth more than 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u59	Thank you, Mr Milan Feranc. He raised one factual remark by Mr Pavel Plzák. Before I give him the floor on a point of fact, I note that for a few minutes or tens of minutes the Minister of Culture, who is going to open a world festival of writers, is looking forward to returning to the full debate. So we wish him success in the opening. And my colleague Plzák has the floor to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u60	Thank you. I really have a point of fact about the performance of the previous speaker. Who you were at that seminar, you know, and it's completely contrary to what my colleague Feranec here told us, and I believe him, because he said it here financially, that the property is falling. The CEO said that the property of Czech television is rising. So either the numbers are wrong in the annual report, or the CEO is lying to us. That's one thing. And the other thing. I confess, I didn't examine the board's records. And I'm also very surprised that the board has only been dealing with such important things for 20 minutes. I wonder if anyone here knows what time the annual report board has been discussing. And if it's been such a short time, it's suspicious, too, because to the Director-General during his time, if you don't know, they've awarded an extraordinary reward of CZK 14.5 million. If, after such a short time of discussion, that council has attributed that kind of money, it's a real shame for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact by Mr Roman Sklenák. And before it comes to the counter, I apologize to my colleague Ivo Vondrák between 19.30 and 21.00 on account of the hearing. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u62	Thank you for the floor. I don't think it makes much sense to respond to the performances, but at least to the last one. When my colleague Plzák said that the Czech Television Council dealt with the discussion of the annual report very briefly, this is an absolute misunderstanding. The Czech Television Council is making up the annual report. If there was a final meeting where she was approved, and it took a short time, it certainly could have been, but of course they had to create the report before. And of course, as the councilmen said many times, they spent tens of hours on it. And so is the budget discussion. That's like when we get some press here, so we study it at the office, at home, consult, and then we discuss it here in plenary, and maybe it's a very short discussion. But I can't say the MPs dealt with the press for two minutes, so they bailed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u63	I thank my colleague Sklenák and we continue with the factual remarks of my colleague Plzák, Feranc and Volný. First of all, Mr. Plzák, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u64	Mr Sklenák through Mr President, you have not listened to me. I said that the budget was dealt with in 20 minutes according to Mr Feranc's figures, so I wonder what time it was when they gave such a great deal of extra reward to the Director-General, if you know that, they were dealing with the production of the annual reports. That's all I said. You didn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Feranc's point of view. He's disturbing her, in which case, colleague Lubomír Volný. Mr Ferjenčík will prepare for a factual remark. My colleague Gajdůškovášková is still waiting. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to get the previous speaker through you. At the seminar we were told that the Czech Television Council was making up its report in part according to the specialization of individual councillors, which means that they were not working collectively to create the whole report. Each of them was assigned to create part of the message. And I suppose they really didn't evaluate the report for just a few minutes, as they evaluated the billion-dollar budget. Anyway, if the Minister of Culture is still here with the stenographic record of the seminar, you can check it out. The Czech Television Council divided the individual tasks according to the specialization of individual councillors and they were responsible for part of the production of the report. They didn't create it at one time and at the same time. So I would quite welcome information on how many minutes they really discussed approving the report. Because if we are here to approve some report on the activities and management of Czech Television, which the Czech Television Council approved in ten fifteen minutes, that would be a real disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Ferjenčík, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to the relevance of Mr. Feranc's information about the 20 minutes. So the government of the Czech Republic discussed the state budget, which deals with 1,600 billion, which means not six, but 1,600 billion, tops three hours. So just how long the final meeting lasts is completely irrelevant, and it doesn't say anything about the energy that the institution has devoted to the document. After all, there is much more important time to devote to this document during its preparation than during the last meeting for which it is formally approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now my colleague Vlastimil Válek and Lubomír Válek, again with factual remarks. My colleague Gajdůškovášková is full of patience. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u70	Very briefly. I cannot agree with my fellow speaker through the President. It doesn't matter. The three hours weren't enough. That's what the budget looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u71	Thank you. And now, my colleague, Lubomír Volný, with a point of fact. Ambassador, I'm measuring your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u72	Thank you. When I made a vow as a regional representative, I believe the lawyers came to us from the Legislative Council of the Government and told us various examples as part of the training, when the Police of the Czech Republic were avoiding the entire council precisely because they had pulled up records of how long the council had been negotiating some reports in the finals. And for example, for the Police of the Czech Republic, something was approved in the finals in a few minutes, a reason to accuse individual members of the council or the council of the whole. So I think that if the Czech Television's multibillion-dollar budget has been approved within a few minutes, it's just not okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Pavel Růžička, will prepare my colleague Kořanová with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, I'm also measuring your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u74	I would just add to my previous speaker that she also accused the entire council because of the fact that one representative said that he warned us, Deputy, that we were selling the house below price, which is similar here when someone says that a crime is being committed and that a criminal report is being filed, and we will approve the reports, so I don't know if it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u75	Thank you, and now also Mrs Kořanová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to remind everyone that we are discussing the management and activities of Czech Television in 2016, so please do not mention here 2018, 2017. House, virtually. The electoral committee has already discussed the 2016 reports. Unfortunately, they didn't get on the agenda, so basically we're doing the thing that the House neglected many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u77	Thank you, Mrs Kořanová, for returning to the agenda. My colleague Gajdůšková, Ondřej Babka will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, Madame Members, let me begin by saying that I really have reason to stand behind the Czech Television as a medium of public service. On the other hand, I have no reason to defend the management of Czech television. But since I couldn't be at the seminar that we're talking about, because at that moment I had a big discussion panel on health and health conditions, I asked for information on what Czech TV was all about. And, as Jan Werich said, everything is different from what sounds primarily from the mouths of the members of the SPD. Of course, they can provide the answers, but I want to talk about something else. Czech TV, respectively. the public service media, their independence, must be protected as a principle, and it must be protected by anyone who feels like a democrat. The independence in the Czech Republic is guaranteed by media councils, the way they are proposed and elected, and the way they finance through radio and television charges, because, colleagues and colleagues, who pay, they command, don't they? So if we pay the public service media for each household, then Czech Television, Czech Radio is responsible for its activities only to its viewers through advice. And to cancel or reduce the charges for radio and television broadcasting, as has already been said several times, would mean that the public service media would have to be, if it had remained a public service media, simply financed differently, probably by the state through the state budget. The debates on the state budget are quite a short line on how to influence something. So do we want a state television? I admit I didn't. Another option would be privatization, i.e. private capital financing, owned directly by a private owner, and then I guess independence can't be discussed, because even advertisers dictate the composition of programs, their classification, etc. To this end, it should be recalled that Czech Television has about one third of the media market, the rest is already commercial today. But that one third means something like a reference framework. Maybe it could be compared to something like a gold share, but I think it's a more accurate comparison of the reference framework, something that I can compare to the other things that are offered to me, especially as a viewer. But this reference framework is also important for journalists of all other media, whether it is printed or private television, or something else, because if I have guaranteed objective, balanced information, if I have guaranteed the quality of the programs, if I have guaranteed the spectrum of the offer, then of course the other media must adapt and cannot afford to manipulate or miss some of the things that the viewer, citizen should get, should know. Public service media also have a clear task according to international criteria - to ensure objective and accessible information to all citizens. This is one of the criteria, one of the conditions that society considers itself democratic. The tasks of Czech Television as a media public service include not only broadcasting, but also the creation and production of diverse genres of programmes. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to read the comments I have requested from those who are also concerned with how the media works. I would like to read the statement of the Acting Association, respectively. Her President Mr. Mgr Ondřej Kepka, actor and director: "Dear Chamber of Deputies, I know that these days you are addressing the issue of unapproved annual reports by Czech Television. I think that the long-term disapproval of the annual reports of Czech Television leads to the destabilisation of this institution, which we should all appreciate very much and maintain its operation as a symbol of our democracy. Public media is a pillar of democratic society. The current Czech TV is certainly not without faults, because there is no other way. They try to cover the whole spectrum of different colors of society with their news coverage, their entertaining, sports, documentary and dramatic shows, and so surely each of us, of you Members, sometimes feels that she wasn't doing something right, and surely we can, you can be right. But being perfect in such a wide frame is not possible at all. Let us pass through our personal subjective criticism and support the principle of Czech television, which every citizen of our Republic can rely on. There is often talk of the amount of the licence fee. I can assure you that there is no better spent CZK 135 per month. For this price one lunch in a regular restaurant our citizen can see a number of new Czech series and documents, our children can watch a very successful program ČT Dčko for a month. Anyone who wants to be interested in current events is watching 24 hours of news daily, trying to be objective. Which of the commercial TVs will broadcast live broadcasts daily from fruit growers, from beekeepers, reports from our factories, from the theaters? Which of the usual TVs will broadcast discussion shows, publicity at the appropriate level? And if this is not even an argument, there is still a very successful and monitored program of CT sport. As it seems, when similar transmissions from hockey and football broadcast commercial television, we can see today. I often travel and watch what public television in other states looks like. I think there are few areas of our activity where we could rather set an example for other countries. Czech television may not learn from others, but others might learn from it. Mgr Ondřej Kepka, actor and director, president of the Acting Association." [[19.30 hours]] Colleagues and colleagues, I particularly agree with the conclusion. As a member of the Senate Media Commission, I had the opportunity to look into the functioning of other public service media in other countries and at least Czech television is comparable. At the same time, I'm not saying that I enjoy every show and broadcast. I'll just remember two examples to revive. I remember, for example, one big conference in the Senate, which we organized together with the Švédky, with the Rakušanky and another foreign participation on the economic effects of domestic violence. The Swedish Ambassador was to speak at the press conference. The Czech TV didn't give a damn about it at the time because it had to transfer the footage from the trial with Mr. Pistorius. I'm not going to discuss this any further. Example two. I organized something like a literary competition for schools, or an understanding contest for a written text. We all know it's a big problem that our students, our students, don't understand. And when we offered it to the regional newsletter of Czech Television, then he told my assistant when the senator jumps off the skyscraper, tell me, Prague will take it away from me. Prague doesn't care about that. So just as an illustration. It's true it was a long time ago. And it's true that things have changed a little bit. But in spite of this negative experience, I have always defended and will defend the existence of independent public service media as an indisputable principle and its guarantee of funding by paying directly the citizens' fees. The second thing is how people pay for it, how they manage it. That's what we've been talking about for a very long time. However, I think we need to set up such a system, such measures that, despite questioning the economy, even if there were any errors, it would be possible to question the credibility of the public service media and attack their independence. Management simply needs to be sound as transparent and economical. That needs to be ensured. That is why I have also signed today's proposal to control Czech TV's management through an independent control office. Colleagues and colleagues, at this point, I intercede when it comes to freedom of speech and when it comes to space, democratic space in this country, in order to approve the reports that we have presented, to discuss the future, as has already been said here. We just need independent public service media. And here's one warning message from today. According to a new report by the European Federation of Journalists, the media are under pressure in the Czech Republic. She went down 27 places in the 40s in five years. And finally, an instruction from one expert seminar on media in general and the functioning of the media. Colleagues and colleagues, do you know the difference between public service media and commercial media? berit of it as a rhetorical question at this point. But experts say that the public service medium sells the program, commercial media sells the viewer. And I don't think any of the citizens want to be sold. That is why it is good that Czech TV has eight channels that cover programs from news to sports, education of children, etc., an artistic channel. And I wouldn't blame them. On the contrary. For the 135 crowns a month, it really provides the maximum service that the public service medium can provide. Please consider, consider and approve the reports we have now submitted. Let us approve, then let us talk about the 2018 report and certainly talk about the future further, how to improve the situation in relation to the economy. But let us not take steps that would call into question the respect for freedom of speech in this country. We'd all pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u79	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Lubomír Španěl will prepare Mr Ondřej Babka. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I already said I wouldn't respond, but as I listened to some previous speakers in the foyer, who claimed how the board worked on the management report mainly, so I would like to remind myself that I was at the seminar, I listened once again to what the particular councillors, the particular living beings who were present there, responded to the question of how they participated in the work on the annual management reports. Please, who weren't there, listen to this. I'm guessing there was a single councilman there who knew a little bit about the management report. Otherwise, everyone said they had other assignments. Please, let's listen to each other. And to Mrs Gajdůšková through Mr President. We all want good and good public media, free. But that doesn't mean we can't make sure that the money management paid by the concessionaire is controlled. And I promise I won't really react anymore. But let's listen to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u81	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ondřej Babka, Mrs Miroslava Němcová will be ready. Before my colleague Babka comes to the counter, I state the apology of Mr Jan Zahradník from 19 o'clock until the end of the day for personal reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating two, respectively, today. four documents on the management and functioning of public Czech Television. Personally, I do not have any more formal or factual reservations regarding these documents after they have been studied. Moreover, and this is important for me, their adoption has been recommended by the Election Committee, which has certainly given appropriate attention to their content and the necessary time. I respect, accept and vote in favour of the recommendations made by my fellow Members in this Committee. At the same time, allow me to comment on the work of Czech Television in a broader context. One. I perceive in the public space around me, in the ranks of journalists and the media as well as in the ranks of Members speculating on the need for public television, virtually. Public media at all. I study the media and I know that the existence of public media in addition to commercial media is essential to the complexity of the media system. And I'm deliberately not talking about protecting or threatening democracy right now. I consider this argument to be more or less ideological and actually inadequate. I repeat, the complexity of the media system in European tradition requires the existence and functioning of independent public media. [[19.40 hours]] The second point, however, is not meaningfully inferior. It is about how public media works today, not only in the economic sense, but especially for me in the criteria of professional journalism. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I focus on when I watch Czech TV, listen to Czech Radio, register the work of the Czech Press Office. I therefore appeal to the staff, the management and the board of these institutions to make professionalism the main criterion according to which they assess the results of their work both journalistic and managerial. My reservations about Czech television are thus directed towards the professional level of information processing. The trend of quality reduction and political tabloidization, which we can monitor recently and in specific cases, is not acceptable in my view in the long term. The current situation, however, is perhaps not the fault of moderators, as is often said, but rather the error of editors and TV management, which does not create clear boundaries for the way moderators on screens repeatedly and constantly present information, comment on events, ask tender questions, interrupt their guests. I believe that, as we watch political conversation, we are not to know the political opinion of the questioner, the moderator, from the way we conduct the conversation. However, in Czech real estate the opposite is true and in a large number of sessions Czech television is the political opinion of the moderator to the viewer clear and unambiguous. However, this is not journalism of the public service media, i.e. the media, which is to be the standard of quality and objective journalism. That is why we are all composed of seven billion crowns, which is not enough, by means of the television fee. I would like to stress that I am not alone in these opinions, as it is based on a recent discussion at the meeting of the Czech Television Council on the professionalism of news. As I said at the outset, however, these reservations are not grounds for rejecting the 2016 and 2017 annual reports that I will support, and I believe that this day-to-day debate will contribute to reversing the negative trend of public service media perception and will not allow public service media to be discredited for much of future generations due to short-term hesitation. důvěra is easily lost, but it is difficult to recover. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u83	I thank my colleague Ondřej Babek. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, Antonín Staněk will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u84	Thank you for the floor. Good evening to all colleagues and all colleagues. I will try only briefly to sum up what I think has not yet been said and what is contained in the reports. Therefore, if we are discussing them, not only our reservations should be mentioned, but also something that is contained in the reports and has not yet been addressed. Before that, however, I would like to deliver an opinion on the position of the Civic Democratic Party MEP. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that representatives of the Civil Democratic Party on the Election Committee have looked into both the reports on the Czech Television's management and the report on the activities of Czech Television, both in 2016, and in 2017. And we have already spoken in advance at the club, although the report for 2018 has not yet been discussed by the electoral committee, so we have already talked about this report. I and my fellow Members from the Election Committee have made recommendations to the Civic Democratic Party MEP for the approval of these reports, both in 2016, and in 2017, and in 2018, and the Civic Democratic Party MEPs have accepted this recommendation. Members of the ODS will therefore vote in favour of the approval of these reports. Now, allow just a few comments on the debate today. I will really try to choose only what I consider, from my subjective point of view, to be the most important. First of all, a comment on management. The alternative audit, which Mr Juříček had drawn up, was discussed here during the morning and partly in the afternoon. The chair of the ANO Group, Mr.Faltýnek, told the Chamber of Deputies that this material, with which Juříček introduced us, was not introduced to the ANO club, the discussion about it was not conducted, none of them saw it and none of them knew it. It follows to me that it makes absolutely no sense to take this material into account, I consider it irrelevant, not only because we know only his client, but we do not know who made it and we do not know what methodology he followed. Therefore, I will limit myself only to saying that there is no point in dealing with something that no one has seen and knows, and I will not be dealing with it at all. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] For me, what is included in the report on the economics of Czech Television, that is, an audit, which is from a professional company that is signed under it, is published there, and each of the Members can read it. Its conclusion is that the auditor assessed the financial statements of Czech Television for both 2016 and 2017, without reservations. It cites that the financial statements provide a true and fair picture of assets and liabilities, costs and revenues and the results of the management for the year in question and comply with Czech accounting regulations. I think we should take this into account, we have to take into account, because we cannot say that an auditor who regularly controls the Czech TV business is not interested in us, and we will come here with some paper that we do not know where it came from, and we will focus more on it. Second point. Let me say - I don't like it. Talks about salaries -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u85	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask my colleagues for some peace. If you are discussing something else, please, in the lobby, and if you are interested in speaking on this subject, then sign up for the debate. I really mean it. Or I'll stop the meeting. Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u86	Thank you. I wanted to say that I do not like debates on salaries and so on, because I consider it to be a private matter to some extent, but I understand that we simply need to consider the issue of individual salaries of Czech Television employees in the economy of Czech Television. And since there were repeatedly things that weren't true, at least I have to mention this. Compared to the increase in average wages in the Czech Republic, wages in Czech Television increased significantly slower. The year-on-year change for 2016 was an increase in average wages on Czech TV plus 1 percent, nationwide it was plus 4 percent of average wages. As for 2017, Czech Television plus 2 percent, nationwide plus 6 percent. 2018 Czech Television plus 7 percent, nationwide plus eight. Those aren't numbers that somebody can make up, paint somewhere, and now they're swordplaying with them, those are numbers that can be documented. After all, everyone who kept some payroll records must know that this is the hardest thing to check, and I am based on this record of Czech Television. So much to clarify how it looks with those murderously high salaries and the abuse of licence fees that Czech Television employees discuss on their rich wages. The third point concerns how Czech television is doing not only from the perspective of Czech citizens, but also from the perspective of foreign, and even from the expert comparisons that are being made. The Kantar TNS survey of mid-2019 says this: Two thirds of the Czech Republic's population consider the Czech Television broadcasting to be objective and balanced. 70 percent of citizens of the Czech Republic consider Czech Television to be credible. Channel ČT 24, the news channel, has been the most monitored news channel among all public broadcasters in Europe for several years. And then there's another prestigious comparison. That is, the work done by the University of Oxford, along with the Reuters Institute, which charted the credibility of the various public media and, in particular, their news channels. And in this case the news channel Czech Television ČT 24, evaluates it as above average, trust in it is above average and can be compared to channels such as BBC News, ORF, ZDF heute. It is therefore higher than, for example, the confidence of viewers in public news in France, Spain and other countries. [[19.50 hours]] I think that whether one of us is looking critically, less critically, more leniently, or less leniently, it should take these surveys into account. As a citizen of the Czech Republic, I am delighted that international comparison is based on the broadcasting of the public media of our country, that it has a very decent position, and I will not, as a Member or as a citizen, throw myself down to the position that the public media is doing something wrong here when the results speak of something else. I want to say from my point of view that I understand that there is a special trenches war going on here, because if I compare the discussion of the reports on the activities and management of the Czech Radio, please remember who has spoken with it, how long has the Chamber of Deputies been doing it, how long have we discussed whether the tables on the Czech Radio's management are on one side, on two sides, on three sides, whether the items from them have been discussed by the Election Committee for two hours or half an hour, whether the Chamber of Deputies has them approved in half a minute, and therefore they are good. What's going on? As it is possible that Czech Radio floats through butter like a knife, and I myself supported the reports both at the Czech Radio MP's club, so I voted for them here. But what is happening compared to Czech TV? I have the impression that there really is an obvious and clear effort to keep český TV in check. It is a significant medium, with more impact probably than Czech Radio, has more influence and it needs to be kept tense so that it listens more. In other words, all this time, the rapporteur has been talking about this, and many have touched it. How come the news about Czech Television has not been discussed and the news about Czech Radio has been discussed? I think it shows that it was some kind of stick on Czech television that was supposed to say to her: "Slowly normalize, get yourself in order, listen to us well, because if you, most of us in the Chamber of Deputies, are represented by a government coalition - I'm leaving the Social Democrats aside, because I don't think they're joining this campaign against Czech TV, except for the exceptions - so if you don't listen to us, then you'll see how we settle our accounts with you. These accounts can, of course, be settled through the discussion of those reports and their non-approval. While the Czech Radio was almost unobservable here, as they passed, not on Czech Television. And if it doesn't pass in this way, there's another one here, the more sophisticated one, which means that in the spring the seats in the Czech Television Council will be released, six seats will be allowed. The choice is secret, now anyone who will vote in favour of the report or against the report will be publicly traceable, but in that secret choice there are various agreements and different procedures offered, and by this secret choice and by the permission of those who will probably guarantee that Czech television will be more obedient, that it will become normal, so this choice can be achieved somewhat more elegantly. But whatever the way it is, either the first one that goes through the news or the second one goes against the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, because public institutions, both Czech Radio and Czech Television, are irreplaceable. And I think it is our job to control them, of course, to subject them to criticism if we see fit, but to not doubt their existence in any way, and in what way they can, so that these institutions can be firm in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Miroslava Němcová. Now I have three factual points. The first is a colleague Pavel Juříček, then Jaroslav Foldyna, then Pavel Plzák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u88	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've said here several times that the accounting report or the annual report is fine. It's perfectly all right. After all, I have said several times that Ernst & Young has done a perfectly good job. I use Ernst & Young myself. But this isn't about whether it's okay, it's about how the management is and what the outlook is, and that's what I'm talking about. I am opposed to what Mrs Němcová said, through the President, because I repeated that Ernst & Young produced a clear annual report on an accounting basis, meaning 2+2 are 4. But that doesn't mean it's not covered by some of the things I've said here that it's just not okay to do business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u89	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual remark of Jaroslav Foldyna's Member will be prepared by Mr Plzák for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u90	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to comment on that... Mrs. Němcová spoke more or less of the programme section here. I wouldn't want to question her at all, however subjective it is to each of us, someone likes it, someone doesn't like something. We can talk about the news, even there, at all the debate between politicians, some like the news, some don't. As the President says, there are no stupid questions, they're just stupid answers. So once again, I would say that Czech TV has a quality broadcast, we can discuss it. But what we're arguing about here is the management report. And yesterday, the principal was here. There has been a discussion here, and it has also been said here, and I see that the YES movement has basically either left, and maybe it will come again, and I would be delighted if it came again. It's a decisive movement that essentially decides on these reports. So what did you agree with the director yesterday, Mr. Juříček? If you could explain it to us, because I'm quite surprised that you're not actually here for such an important vote anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u91	Thank you. Mr Pavel Plzák now with a factual remark. Then my colleague Juříček, one more point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u92	Thank you. Two comments on the previous speaker's performance. We were given a bit of ideological training on some standardisation, but I would understand if we criticized television's activities. But I don't think there's much going on here. We criticized the management. And that's not the economy, because the TV fee fund is really going down. It's going down, it's going to eat, it's going to cost 600 million, I think. And you have spoken through the President about the interests of our citizens. But the interest of our citizens, and ask them, is not to increase the licence fees. And we were given clear signals at the seminar that the council was going to ask the House to increase the licence fees. We just want to prevent it, and we want it to be the way TV has managed so far, so that it doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u93	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Juříček. Then, with a factual remark, I have Mr Plzák again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u94	Yes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by my colleague, Mr Foldyna, through the President, and I am happy to answer. Mr. Dvořák asked me to meet him. I told him yes, there's no problem at all, I'm a perfectly transparent person. So I challenged him to meet me yesterday. I suggested we meet in the act. He refused that it was too public space, that it needed some closed space, so we found a club minus 2 upstairs, so that's where we met. First point-- now I'm not sure I can make it two minutes. [[- Please continue.]] Thank you very much. The first point was IT, because there they admitted that they made a mistake on their website, that they published contracts that were generated there several times, and that I actually figured out that they were putting wrong contracts on the web. So we figured out what's going on with the Helios app and its prices. [[20.00 hours]] The second was just the things I talked to them about, which means, I have to admit, I was a lot tougher on Mr. Dvořák than at the seminar, because it was between the four eyes after all. There I read him individual items, which means people's increases, since 2014 he has accepted about 200 extra people. So it's not about the average wage going up and everything. I have, of course, read to him the ratio of decreasing financial assets - I also spoke about it today. I blamed him for having it from (?) other services 408 million. I blamed him for, of course, dropping his assets. [[Time warning]] And I could go on like this, because I had an appointment with him for about an hour, I didn't measure it, and the result was: Mr. Juříček, please come and help us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u95	Mr. Ambassador, if you'd like to sign in again. I don't know if I exactly measured your time when I was taking over. Please again. Now please - Mr Plzák, then Mr Stanjura, then I register Mr Juříček. So, Mr. Plzák. No, in that case, please, Prime Minister Stanjuru, with a factual remark. I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Pour apologizes to us today from the 20th hour until the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u96	Thank you for the floor. I've been disciplined for a long time, and I've stuck. I can't take it anymore. I can't stand it. Manipulation, displacement, repetition. We're in 2016. It was approved by the electoral committee, in the last parliamentary term it had most of the movement YES, Social Democrats, KDU. It was approved by the Election Committee, most of which are held by the ANO movement, social democracy and communists during this parliamentary term. Very hard words on members of the Czech Television Council. I looked at when they were elected. They were all elected during the time when the ANO movement was part of the government's majority. You sent all those people there! So I guess you're criticizing yourself when you choose those sharp words to their address. From 2014 to last year or this year, you yourself have gradually filled the Czech Television Council. We're going to have a tax package tomorrow and a 100 percent increase in the cost to the cadastral because it's inflation. 100 percent! And you're here to defend it. Mr. Juříček will say every year - I found terrible holes and terrible savings in that budget. Oh, please, let's be reasonable, let's approve! That's what he says to the budget every year. And then he votes for the budget. So, Mr Juříček, through Mr President, I believe there are reserves, we are in 2016, but let us approve. Be consistent. By 455 billion, the government of the ANO movement has more available than in 2014, and it is not enough! 455 billion. And this is where you'll train us! I can read balance sheets, too. What do you want? According to the law, the audited report - it's great, perfect, but you're not voting for it. Or how am I supposed to understand that? So either change the law, you'll be predicting whether the Czech TV can manage the surplus in five years or not... [[Time.]] That's okay. Then I won't support it. But this is just manipulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u97	Thank you. Mr Juříček made a factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u98	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, no manipulation, these are numbers, these are facts. As I was saying, there were other items that we discussed with Mr. CEO Dvořák, which I had already suggested. This means commitments, what investment will be, how will they cover it. Of course, Mr Dvořák gradually climbed under the table optically looking for a way to prepare the 2020 budget, if I could help them and so on. I have to say, we broke up very correctly. I also spoke to him in a very correct and transparent manner. He thanked me for that by smska me. I also thanked him for smska him that I hope he took something out of it, that he would somehow start saving up. However, today, about a few hours ago, it came out that the proposal to organise the seminar came from the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Please, I'm showing everyone here that it's not true, that it's a lie. [[He's pointing.]] Here's a clear request from the Director General to call a seminar. You can all read it here. And then he issued another - the meeting of the Director General with Mr Juříček was officially held in the public premises of the Chamber of Deputies, which is true, the topic was the reservations of the Member from the seminar and doubts about his private audit. Please, I'm still not talking about having a private audit, I'm talking about what I found, and the private audit that I entered, to myself, or to myself, was just to find out whether I was biased or not, to confirm the numbers I published this morning. [[Time warning]] And that was it. You can evaluate for yourself whether this is correct behavior based on the fact that I got text smsk from him that we treated each other very correctly. [[Time warning]] [[- Please, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u99	President Stanjura with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u100	We are discussing the report on activity and management for 2016 and Mr Juříček argues with a tweet or a status from today. That has nothing to do with each other. But I'm taking his word for it, and I'm challenging him to a detailed debate about every chapter book and we're going to search together for savings. If we find them there, and they'll make a loss for nothing, I believe you'll vote against the state budget. 'Cause it's not supposed to be wasted like that. I remember yours - and next time I will find it, Mr Member through the President. I'll find your performance, which I applauded, as you've been looking for savings in the past few years. And again, you have 113 billion more revenue as government, and it's not enough for you. And you're saying that the cadastral has 100 percent higher costs and that everything is effective when it's 100 percent! And you support it! When we voted on the Committee on Budgets, so that we do not increase the fee for the cadastral by 100 per cent - how do you think Mr Juříček voted? He voted against, which means an increase of 100 per cent, from year to year. And let me just remind you that the licence fee - and I am against the increase, when someone comes and we vote on it, we will vote against it, to be clear - so it has been the same since 2008. And do we have to count inflation over the years? Should we count average wage growth over the years? What else do we have to count? Should we count the rising price of television rights for, for example, sports broadcasts? What do we count? That's why I'm saying it's purposeful. The audit is great, but I can't support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u101	Thank you. Now, Vice-President Filip came forward with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u102	Thank you. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, I understand the debate, I have politicised, but I would like to ask the speakers, I could not do this when I was managing the meeting to get them back on the subject. We're talking about this is the 2016 management report, but we're talking about completely different things here, because somebody decided that they're gonna make this debate go away so it doesn't show what's going on in the report itself. So I ask you to get back to it, and we may be able to finish the debate quite in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u103	Thank you, too. Now, please, for the general debate of Mr Staněk Antonín. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u104	Thank you, Mr President. It is an advantage of a person who is patient and waits to see. That way, I will largely be able to free myself from some of the things I have prepared in my speech, because the previous speakers have already said them before me, and out of respect for you, Members of Parliament, I will not repeat these things. However, a few comments on what has been said here and on the subject that we are debating today. I think it is quite clear to all who have seen the invitation to the seminar for Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the director-general of Czech Television was the one who asked for this seminar, and that if it were not for this seminar at which the members of the Czech Television Council presented themselves as they presented themselves, I think that few of us would have the arguments that we are putting forward here today. [[20.10 hours]] I remember that, similarly, a seminar was convened for Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic with experts on constitutional law, where Members were to be informed and taught when there was a violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, when there was no and how it was with the position of the President. At that time, a few Members came to this seminar, the reason being given - Monday, the parliamentary day. Almost 50 Members came to the seminar on Czech Television. The President himself called it an extraordinary success, and the seminar was very intensively visited. Personally, I very much appreciated Mr Faltýnek's speech through Mr President, who called on us at the outset to focus on the management, that is, the topic for which the seminar was convened. And I must say that during all this time, there was not a single topic that we could say was politicized, that it was about something other than management, and all the Members who were present at the seminar were prepared and asked substantive questions to members of the Czech Television Council. I must say that these were not questions that would attack the position of CEO of Czech Television. These questions were addressed by our elected representatives, who have in their description of their work and in their responsibility to take care of the good economy so that the activities and management of Czech television are in accordance with legislation, the laws of the Czech Republic, good manners and everything that all citizens of the Czech Republic want. I've been to a seminar, and everyone who's been on it and doesn't have the information mediated has to confirm one frightening fact. The President of the Czech Television Council replied to most of the questions that he did not know and gave the floor either to the Director-General or to one of the representatives of the Czech Television Council. And the real answers were that anyone who wanted could find an answer very general, very superficial, but such an answer. But anyone who wanted to know the answer to a specific question didn't know. I regret one thing - that the time between this seminar and today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on management reports was not used for at least one of the two questions that we have asked the President of the Czech Television Council to be processed and answered. Just as the Director General of Czech Television came here to lobby, so that the President of the Czech Television Council would come and say, for example, Mr Member, you had the question of how much money the Czech Television received for the products of the presentation of the gallery that were mentioned here. The answer could be 100 crowns, 1500, 1,000, but it would be the answer. Instead, I read in the paper that the questions of Members of the Czech Television's economy were purposeful, intentional, and basically we were the difficult ones, the difficult insects, who took the liberty of asking questions about specific matters. I am sorry, because I would appreciate it if the President of the Czech Television Council or any member of the Czech Television Council or the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who is an advisory body, had come and told us: here are the answers, we were able to prepare this for you that week. We didn't know anything about it. We only learned from the media that we were harassing. It wasn't our idea, it was the General Director's idea to call this seminar. You know, we're talking about the management of Czech TV. A lot of contributions were about the management of Czech TV. And I haven't heard from any of us, any of my previous speakers, question the need for the independence of public media. No one's ever said that here. No one ever. We're being pushed. We're being artificially moved. And it is created in society that this Chamber of Deputies is preparing to get rid of public media. It's a wake-up call! It's a lie! Say, give one valid argument, one quote anywhere, that someone would attack the independence of public media. Do you know who's attacking this? The Czech Television itself is attacking this by how it manages, because sooner or later, at least from what we have heard and what has been said at the seminar, it has to get into the situation that it will come here to the Chamber of Deputies with a proposal to increase the licence fee. I'm sorry, I'm a minister who doesn't know his budget, but only a fool couldn't count 135 kroner. Mr Stanjura, through the President, has said exactly how many years the fee of CZK 135 has not been lifted. How long can we endure with this amount if we saw that even in the situation of a certain economic stagnation, when the finances were as they were, there was no increase in the fee but still no reduction in the number of employees? All state institutions, ministries are constantly being pressured to be effective, to reduce the number of employees. There was no such thing. So when do the deputies come in here and say "we want to increase the licence fee"? Because, and I'm sorry, I only took possession of the 2018 report, but it doesn't seem to matter. So if you look at page 24 in the report, the structure of public media revenue, you will find that the state budget finances almost 100 percent of the television in Finland. And you're saying that the media's public rights are violated in Finland? Similarly, there is a state budget in the Netherlands and in other countries. But the 135 crowns really won't be enough. Therefore, don't be surprised that we Members who were at the seminar that we were familiar with are concerned that sooner or later we will be talking about increasing the licence fees. It says here who pays is in charge. Okay, they're paying for the household. He's in charge of the household. But since we have representative democracy, they are Members of Parliament, they elect the Czech Television Council. But we have learned, and it is natural, of course, that the Czech Television Council is not an expert in all matters, and that it has therefore chosen the Supervisory Commission as an advisory body to provide it with an expert basis in terms of management. And I'm asking who the members of the Supervisory Committee are. We will find their names on the Czech Television Council website. But here it was said, we're checking out, we're dealing with names, who the board members are, we're voting for them. But no one is able to find out who the members of the Supervisory Committee are. Do they have any connection to the management of Czech Television or do they not? I don't know. But I can be suspicious of what I've heard, and I've seen that it could be. So this is a thing that is really very, very disturbing. I want to know who prepares the key documents for members of the Czech Television Council. [[20.20 hours]] [[After a small pause, he responds to a fellow Member.]] A dramatic pause because I wanted to say that I waited too long and it really took me a long time to learn the key thing. It was Mrs Němcová who, through the President, gave us a great threat here. It is not about approving, not approving reports on the activities and management of Czech Television. We are attacked that we want to question independent Czech media. But we'll be in a situation in a few months that we'll be dictated who we can and who we can't vote for on the ČT Council. Because that's where it sounded. We have six members of the ČT Board to choose from. And that's the space for some of those hoaxes, some backstage deals, it's gonna be a secret choice. This means that candidates who will be proposed will be questioned if they are sufficiently democratic, if they are sufficiently loyal to Czech television. That's what I was afraid of! I fear that the Chamber of Deputies is under disproportionate pressure not to decide according to its consciousness and conscience, but to what is artificially expected of it. That is why I think a number of people here are talking about being prepared to consider their position on the approval of the management report. And I say one more thing. Please, we do not lie to the citizens of the Czech Republic! Let us not make them feel that the Chamber of Deputies wants to appeal the Czech Council by not approving two reports! I think one of my previous speakers has clearly read that the Chamber of Deputies can - I stress the word may - appeal to the Council of Czech Television in two cases. Either he finds him incompetent or he doesn't approve two consecutive messages. Yes, it can. And I say again, no one here said he was going to do it. No one here said this was gonna happen. And the Chamber of Deputies decides. Two hundred MPs. So what's there still to be panicked about? We simply responded to how the ČT members were prepared, how they prepared for the seminar, which was attended by 50 Members, who were prepared, who asked and wanted material answers. I am not going to deal with the individual information that was basically said at the seminar because you had the opportunity to meet it and get acquainted with it, whether through various statements, etc., as it was said here. I just want to say, in all cases, we're concerned about economics. And I think that we are talking about how the Czech Television funds are spent, we are doing the Czech Television service. We are doing 85 percent of the employees who create programs in the Czech Republic that are hidden deep beyond the cameras without which the Czech TV would not be. And one thing bothers me, and I've been asked several times as Minister by different media about how much the Minister's income is, how much the Deputys' income, how much the Ministry's management income, etc.: Why did the Czech TV, which takes the example of the BBC, refuse to publish the salaries of its editors? With words, the director said it publicly somewhere, that he believes the company is not ready for it yet. That's outrageous! This is an outrage, which is simply disrespectful to shareholders, virtually. to the taxpayers, to the citizens of this country. So don't be surprised that after such a seminar, there are simply doubts. I'm sorry, but it's nothing against Czech television and the independence of Czech media. I categorically reject such accusations. It is about having the economy clear, transparent, what Czech television and its editors want us to do. Members, ministers, public officials and everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u105	Thank you, too. Mr. Martínek, it's not your time to speak, I'm sorry. It is now registered with Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual remark, and before she reaches the microphone, I will introduce you to Mr Špičák's apology, which apologizes between 20.00 and midnight for family reasons. And Mr Baxa and Mrs Mauritzová cancels their apology. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u106	Thank you for the floor. It's just a very shortcut. Through Mr President, I would like to ask my colleague Staněk who he spoke for. He mostly used the word "we." I wonder who he spoke for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u107	Thank you, and Mrs Černochová cancels her apology, and Mr Staněk is making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u108	Thank you for the floor. I would like to assure my colleague, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, that there are various turnovers in speaking. And either I can speak in ich-form, I can speak in another form, but I speak on behalf of citizens, on behalf of voters, I speak on behalf of those people who have also sent me email messages and who do not agree with the way in which the Czech television is presented and how it works. So if you asked my colleague, through the President, whether I speak for the Czech Social Democratic Party - as its Member, I spoke for myself in this case because I took the oath of a Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u109	Thank you. These were factual points, and now I am asking Mr Martínek, who is in the debate. Mrs Nevludová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, although I no longer want to perform, I must, because I do not like to discuss us without us and because I, as one of the Members, participated in a closed seminar, although for a different reason than other Members. I prefer to have a public hearing, so I did not ask questions at a closed hearing. However, I can correct some misleading information that has fallen. Let's lean on real facts and numbers. The concession fee has been unchanged since 2008, its real value is falling, and yet today Czech TV produces 16 percent more than eleven years ago. He's sending out two new programs. He has a new modern TV studio in Brno and he runs without debts. Perhaps here to Mr Staňek. Let's talk about other financing options. Let us ensure, as in Finland, the impossibility of influencing Members of the budget firmly established by the Fund, which will be financed from the State budget or otherwise, but so that there is no possibility of political influence. Likewise, when you talk about canceling the concession fee, you have to say that you're probably planning to raise taxes because the money in the deficit budget can't be taken anywhere. So is the public choice. We always vote for the public election as pirát, so we'll be happy if you join us. The choice certainly doesn't have to be secretly. Last year, Czech Television was the most watched broadcaster on the Czech TV market. The audience has had the highest satisfaction rating in the last five years. Thematic programmes such as ČT 24, ČT:D and ČT Sport are among the most successful in Europe in terms of market share. According to the prestigious European comparison carried out by the University of Oxford together with the Institute Reuters, confidence in Czech news is above average in Czech and European comparison. ČT invests its free funds in extraordinary projects such as studio in Brno, digitalization of news or production capacity. These are investments that the Czech Television, i.e. the Czech Republic, will ensure the possibility of producing television and film production in decades to come. The value of the long-term property of Czech TV is increasing year on year. Long-term intangible assets increased between 2011 and 2016 from 2.5 billion to 3.4 billion and from 8.7 billion to 9.2 billion. The current expenditures of Czech Television do not exceed the revenues of the year. The state of the free funds was CZK 2.24 billion at the end of 2017. The law prescribes that television fees are primarily intended to finance the production of original Czech television and film production.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u111	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and welcome the Members who have arrived at the O.R., but I will ask them for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u112	The Ministry of Culture then called on Czech Television not to exceed 10 percent of its annual expenditure. The Czech Television Fire Rescue Corps was set up by a set-up charter in 1971 at the direction of the city's fire protection corps. The HZS ČT unit is incorporated into the Integrated Rescue System of the Czech Republic. It provides tasks of the IZS in the firefighting district of the capital city of Prague according to a valid fire alarm plan of the capital city of Prague. The activities of the congregation and its activities are determined by Law No. 133/1985 Coll., paragraph 67. Finally, I would like to point out that if you are not interested in political control of the media for personal interests, but are really interested in improving transparency and control of the Czech TV's economy, you will have the opportunity to vote on the draft amendment extending the powers of the SAO to the entire management of the public media, which was already mentioned by Mr Kubíček, who is also involved in the pirát. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u113	Thank you, too. There are now two factual points, Mr Staněk and Mr Válek. Mr Staněk cancels his application, so please Mr Válek. Mr Válek also cancels his application, so I beg Mrs Nevludová, who is now enrolled in the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I have already mentioned today, I have dealt with the reports on the management of Czech television very thoroughly. Not only did I read them, but I read the minutes of the Czech Television Council meetings, listened to the sound records of the individual meetings of the Czech Television Council, read tenders from publicly available sources, their terms of reference, read the contracts concluded subsequently. [[A group of Members stands in front of a table of stenographers.]] I know we're not discussing the 2017 and 2018 reports right now, but the following quote concerns the report in general, which is why I was very surprised by Mr Luboš Beniak's communication, a member of the board, which was 26. 6. 2019 at their meeting of the Czech Television Council said this: To understand these reports, one must focus on documents. A person who doesn't have a proper education will never understand where the money goes. He also stated that the 2018 report contains far more letters than numbers to make the educated person more understandable, and the uneducated person cannot be helped because if we wrote War and Peace there, they would not understand it anyway. End of quote. To me, this is an incredible expression of contempt for a concessionaire who pays fair fees a month and has no right to know where the money goes. This statement merely proves that the reports are of no value to their users, and it is irrelevant whether they are Members or dealers. They just don't have the talking value. There has already been enough talk about the permanent decline in the value of the property of Czech Television since the entry of Director Dvořák. I focused mainly on a few public procurements. The President of the Czech Television Council, Mr Bednář, assured us who were at the seminar on the management of Czech Television that they carefully controlled these selection procedures. I will quote his words in order to give you an opinion as to whether this claim is based on the truth. I quote: "Next, the Supervisory Committee carries out checks on the selection procedures. Each year, the Supervisory Board will review several dozen tenders and they are selection procedures of a variety of types. They are selection procedures for those, one might say, large orders, for example in tens of millions of crowns, but they are also so-called small things, and as I was explained, when I stopped a little bit, why such seemingly small things need to be controlled sometimes, it was explained to me that this is precisely what is necessary to make no impression in the institution that something is not being controlled. That when a contract, like up to CZK 100,000, that no one will control it, this impression must never arise, and that is why those in the list of activities that the Supervisory Committee does, are often things that might seem to somebody that are worth 60 grand, something for 150 grand, and besides that, there are millions of amounts, so that the Supervisory Board simply has to randomly select all possible selection procedures that exist - all possible procedures - and in addition to the task of the Supervisory Commission itself, we are tasking it by giving it a task, approving the plan of the Supervisory Commission's activities. Every quarter we determine exactly what to do. When any member of the Czech Television Council is unclear about something, he may suggest that the Supervisory Commission examine the costs of developing programmes or a specific programme to check certain things, and it has never happened before that the Czech Television Council would say no, it will not be controlled. Each member of the Czech Television Council has the right to propose whether it is controlled, this or that, and the Supervisory Board will check it out and give us the result of the inspection. A representative of the Supervisory Commission, its chairman or its representative shall attend all meetings of the Czech Television Council. Every time we have a meeting, we get information about the last steps the Supervisory Commission has taken in this sense. Of course, the Supervisory Committee controls the purchase of technology, the sale of assets, these are special things where we are particularly careful when it buys or sells some property, so of course we require a thorough inspection of the Supervisory Commission. Investment of all kinds. I have here, of course, a list of all the things the Supervisory Committee does. I don't want to keep it for too long, it's a lot, but as I'm saying, I can pick at random here that, for example, recently, the Supervisory Committee has checked, for example, the reconstruction of the exchanger station, that electrical lines, the purchase of SONY cameras, the delivery of a minibus for the transport centre, etc. These are, these are just the things she controls for us in this way." I quote literally. [[Noise in the hall.]] "Reconstruction of the roof, that it is, there are a lot of things -"
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u115	Fellow Members, fellow Members - I will interrupt you, Madame, to ask for more peace in the Chamber or, if necessary, Members to settle in the benches. Thank you on the right, on the left. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u116	"The reconstruction of the roof, that there are a lot of things that require some costs, and that supervisory commission these, the selection procedures and all the investments around it, of course, checks according to our instructions and I must say, or the Supervisory Commission states that the law on public procurement has not been violated, that all the relevant regulations have been complied with. Well, that's some information for us about how it's managed. I, when I sometimes hear or read somewhere in the media, that somewhere someone says something that the management of Czech television -"
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u117	I'd ask for more peace again. Please, if you'll just move the meeting out of the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u118	- is not controlled by anyone, so please, it is not true, the Czech Television's management is controlled by the board, this supervisory commission." End of quote. I didn't stutter, I quoted. I was intrigued by the question that fell at the Czech Television Council meeting of 28. 6. 2017 to the fact that Czech Television is switching to a new economic system and where a member of the board was required to inform the Czech Television Council about this new system, the time frame for implementation and other details. [[20.40 hours]] The answer was that the Czech Television Council would receive information at the end of September or at the beginning of October 2017. Even though I went through all the entries and records by the end of 2017, I couldn't find this information. That's why I looked up this contract and related materials myself. I read in the documents that the economic system HELIOS Green was competing. Only one company participated in the tender, which subsequently also won the tender, namely Asseco Solutions, a. s., with a bid price of CZK 30,700 330. However, I was struck by the fact that, despite this high price, other modules, maintenance, services relating to this system are being competed. I believe this was to be dealt with comprehensively with everything. I have written from the central register of contracts that these are the following contracts: 26. 12. 2016 contract for 548 000 entitled Maintenance and Support of Wage Module IS HELIOS Green 2017; 4. 1. 2017 contract for CZK 32 700 330 entitled Contract for granting licences and related services, supply of modular information system for supporting production, operating, economic and management processes; 3. 1. 2017 4 500 000 entitled Contract on the provision of services - economic and operational information system, support for operation and development; 28. 12. 2017 270 000 titled Providing support services for the electronic system of file services, maintenance and further development of the ČT; 28. 12. 2017 contract for CZK 1 690 000 - licensing of the electronic system of file services, implementation and provision of maintenance services; 28. 2. 2018 1 008 000 entitled Maintenance and Support of the Payroll Module IS HELIOS Green 2018 - 2019; 28. 3. 2018 contract for 1 658 818 entitled Delivery of MSSQL licences for ERP; 26. 3. 2019 628 530 CZK The provision of maintenance MSVQL for ERP. We therefore reach contracts of a total amount of 43 003 740 crowns. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] I was also surprised that even with such high amounts for the implementation of the new economic system, not only did Czech Television employees participate in the implementation, but another, new tender had to be issued, on the project support for the implementation of the information system, which was won by Leading s. r. o. So the next question is why was this tender issued when the same activity was already concluded by the company Asseco Solution. When reading the contract terms won by Leading and the qualification criteria required in the competition, I found out the following. Quote qualification requirements: The supplier fulfils the qualification requirement if he has carried out at least two services of a similar nature and scope in the last five years. [[Mr. Foldyna brought a glass of water to the speaker's desk]] A service of a similar nature and scope means a service consisting in managing the project implementation of HELIOS Green modules, economy, production, orders, accounting, logistics, property and controlling for at least 200 users within a contract with a total value of at least 10,000 for each service - 10,000 000 000, this amount is quite important in this case for what will follow. This company certainly could not meet these requirements. I did not find any sales from sales of goods and services in 2015 either, in 2016 only in the amount of 2, 159 000 and in 2017 and 2018 I did not find the reports in the Collection. Probably because the general meeting of the owners of the Lapčíkův family company did not take place so that these statements were sent to the Collection under the Accounting Act. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop. Very poor hearing!]] In the Leading offer, which is free to download on the profile of the contracting authority, Czech Television, information appears when the company states that in the field of corporate information systems -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u119	Madam, I will interrupt you once again and again ask your fellow Members in the Chamber for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u120	So this company's offer indicates that it has been in business information systems since 1993, which contradicts the accounts. If only 2,159,000 were faked in one year, they could not meet the conditions of 10,000. By the way, engineer Dušan Lapčík is a former CEO of Leading, who signed over the executives in January 2011 to his wife. You know who is a former member of the Board of Directors of Asseco Solutions, to whom this membership -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u121	My colleague, I'm gonna ask you to rest in the hall again. Now it's quiet, so please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u122	So this Mr. Dusan Lapčík was a member of the Board of Directors of Asseco Solutions. So what I said at the Czech Television Council seminar that I feel like a small house for someone who worked at the Asseco Solutions and at the Leading company at the same time, I stand by it. Then I was asked to present as an I.D. what I found that they could deal with it. I'm saying this publicly now, so I hope I don't have to send anything anywhere else. I only traced one contract to the central register of contracts with this company to 1,950,000 dated 25 January 2017. According to registered partial orders that bind to this contract, this performance is already in the values for 2017 CZK 1 734 250, for 2018 CZK 560 000, for 2019 CZK 1 018 500, which totals CZK 3 312 750. This means that the contract is overdrawn by CZK 1 362 750, or there is another option that there is simply no other contract in the register. The seminar also included information on transport services of the amount of 2016 69 618 000, for 2017 68 490,000, for 2018 70 068 000. Once again, I focused on selection procedures for transport services. I found quite a few funds for such a large amount of money. [[20.50 hours]] We received this answer at the seminar from the financial director of Czech Television. I quote, hello, ladies and gentlemen, and from me. The costs mentioned. I assume that the transport and travel charges, in the annual accounts in the annual report, are about CZK 60,000. I guess I'll start by explaining what we're going to find in that item. And it's also explained in the annual report. It is all the costs associated with the employees of Czech Television, when they leave outside their workplace, which are Kavčí Mountains in Prague, on filming. It is the business trips of employees with which transport is connected and the place of work. There are dietary replacements involved, diets that they receive from the Labour Code. They are associated with this if it is longer than one day's journey, accommodation at the place of work. So all of these costs related to the reimbursement of the costs of staff posted on a business trip are included in this item. There are also possible foreign business trips.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u123	Again, I would ask colleagues in the right side of the hall to remain calm. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u124	As far as public procurement is concerned, from what I have listed, it is clear that some types of costs such as hotels, diets are so specific that it is not possible to compete with all hotels around the world, hotels all over the Czech Republic, so they are purchased here according to the place of business. As far as transport is concerned, ČT has a competition agreement for taxi service in Prague, because we use taxi service primarily in the territory of Prague and the surrounding area. There is a competitive contract and a company that provides us with these services. The director Dvořák also answers this question: I would just use that time to add that if these are transport services used in the filming, such as the Beskydy series Dr. Martin or the series in the Ore Mountains Rapl, then these services are competed separately for the project. There is always a tender for the delivery of specific services and it is also a service of bus, train, air, all possible. This overall contract - and this was also a question on the electoral committee - is such an overall contract, it cannot be competitive, so I don't think there is a company that would supply the full range of all these services as described. But standard selection procedures are ongoing for these individual projects. Why did I quote this again? So you can get a picture of providing taxi services both in Prague and outside Prague. 25 days. 5. 2015 was concluded a contract for this service with SEDOP Taxi Prague, where passengers, in this case Czech Television, are entitled to order individual services with the carrier up to a total value of 20 million without VAT aggregate throughout the entire duration of the contract. The contract shall be concluded for a fixed period until this limit is exhausted. 19 days. 12. However, 2016 was signed an amendment to this contract, where the contract is terminated early on the ground that the carrier cannot continue to provide the services required by passengers in quantity and quality, and this contract ends 28. 2. 2017. A new competition for the provision of these services was thus launched. The price was calculated for a four-year period worth less than 13 million. The sole party to this proceeding was HALOTOXI, s. r. o., with which the contract was signed on 10. 8. 2017 for an indefinite period. The contract includes, inter alia, that the carrier undertakes to have at least 60 vehicles for the entire duration of the contract, of which at least 40 are middle class vehicles and 20 are medium class vehicles or premium class vehicles, such as Audi A6, BMW 5, Mercedes E and so on, with regard to the models produced. The age of the vehicle shall not exceed six years and the maximum number of kilometres driven shall not exceed 220 thousand kilometres. The list of vehicles is set out in Annex 4 to this Treaty. I didn't find this attachment in the register. This information is important due to the prices for such luxury vehicles and will be related to other information. Much more important is the information that after four months of signing the contract, that is 22. 12. The amendment to this Agreement is signed on the grounds that HALOTOXI sold part of the company to HALOTOXI-TRANSPORT. These companies are connected by staff. The applicant for this contract must according to § 50 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) submit a declaration of honour that it is economically and financially capable of fulfilling the contract for the entire duration of the contract. In my opinion, this statement was either false or based on the applicant's dreams. [[Big noise in the hall.]] If we look at the Charter Collection, we will find out from the balance sheet and the profit and loss account of this company that the purchase of these vehicles appeared to have taken place in 2017...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u125	I understand, Madame. Once again, I will welcome the Members who filled the O.R., but I would ask you to remain calm for the last four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u126	So if we look at the Charter Collection, we will find out from the balance sheet and the loss account that the purchase of these vehicles by leasing companies appeared to have taken place in 2017, because the company was heavily indebted. This company ended up bankrupt in April of this year. The total value of the claims applied for is over CZK 26 million. In my opinion, what happened in the case of the previous participant of the contract should have happened to SEDOP. The company was unable to fulfil the award of Czech Television and withdrew from the contract and a new tender was issued. This was not the case with HALOTOXI. No new proceedings have been drawn up and the aforementioned amendment has been signed stating that the new successor company HALOTOXI-TRANSPORT assumes all rights and obligations under the original contract. The fact that the company meets the contract criteria according to the supplement verified the department of central purchase of Czech Television. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] And let's look again at the Charter Collection. And now it's going to have something to do with the fact that, according to the contract, the company is required to have 40 mid-class vehicles and 20 premium-class vehicles. In the assets of HALOTOXI-TRANSPORT we will find the assets as at 31. 12. 2017 in the amount of CZK 4.5 million. No long-term liabilities if I were to accept the fact that the company would negotiate credit agreements for the purchase of vehicles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u127	Madam, I would simply ask Members who may leave to do so in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u128	I was wondering how much the older AUDI A6 costs. So old age - year 2016 - price about 700,000. BMW 5 - 2013 - 450,000. If we calculate the value of 20 of these vehicles, we're at over 10 million in assets. Where are the other 40 mid-class cars? Where do we calculate the tangible assets the company has to have according to the requirement of the contract? There's no mention of possible subcontractors in the contract either. What, then, did the central purchase of Czech Television control? Why hasn't a new tender been issued? In short, there was clearly a breach of the Public Procurement Act. What, then, does the Council of Czech Television control when Mr Bednář said at the beginning that they control almost every crown? Does it seem to you that it is sufficiently fulfilling its control function? [[21.00 hours]] For me, there's more than enough arguments about why I can't raise my hand for these messages. My final questions in direct connection with what I said here today relate to the annual rewards of Mr. Dvořák's CEO. The Council approved these rewards for managerial results, compliance with legislation, implementation of project projects, quality of management decisions and quality of control processes. Control processes! Do you consider his work brilliant enough for these annual rewards to be fully approved? I certainly don't. I think there's a lot of reasons not to approve these reports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-004-902.u129	Thank you, too. It's fifty-nine. I would like to announce for the record that Mr Skopeček and Mr Munzar cancelled their apology during this speech. And it is 21 o'clock, so I would say that Mr Michálek is registered with a factual remark, and since we did not vote that we would act after 21 o'clock, in a procedural or territorial manner, or whatever, so the negotiations are now over, and I thank you all for your participation. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when item 206 is on, if I can see correctly. So thank you. Have a nice evening and see you in the morning. I'm interrupting this meeting for this day.
