ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u1	242. Statement of opposition to the process of the Russian Duma, which wants to legitimize the entry of the USSR army into the territory of Czechoslovakia in August 1968 I ask that the plaintiff of this paragraph, Mr Marian Jurečka, take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also be the rapporteur. The Member will probably agree. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, members of the government, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. Thank you and thank you for yesterday's compliance to include this item in this afternoon's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will try to justify it and also make a brief presentation of the motion for a resolution, which I sent to all of you today after lunch to your email addresses, which you have listed on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say that this point and the subsequent resolution I want to respond to the situation that actually escalated last week, when three Russian Communist Members realized a round table on the lower chamber of the Chamber of Deputies, the Russian House, and there were representatives of other factions, there was even a representative of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There has been a debate on the parliamentary initiative of these Members who wish to submit an amendment to the Federal Act on Veterans, where, among other things, they want to address the issue of, for example, raising certain services and the like. I understand that this is, of course, their internal business, we can't object to that at all. But it bothers us, therefore, personally, that this step is justified, among other things, by the fact that these soldiers were on the territory of Czechoslovakia at the time and did their tasks here in suppressing the attempted coup and in securing the stabilisation of the situation in the Czech Republic for a period of extensive military strategic operations of the troops of the Warsaw Treaty Member States from 21 August to November 1968. [[16.10 hours]] I think that the way those events were taking place at the time and that they were contrary to international law was also contrary to the will of the then representatives of Czechoslovakia, for which we have had many discussions. Last year, the House made it clear in its resolution that it was an occupation, that it was contrary to international law. This is also mentioned in the 1993 Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, where the issue at that time is also clearly defined in the spirit that it was an occupation at the time. So I think that, as the Chamber of Deputies, as a partner of the Russian House, we should adopt a resolution that clearly sets out our view of these activities. I have presented this resolution to you, and I will also allow myself to read it briefly and imagine it here. The resolution has eight points. I will say quite frankly that there is a similar resolution adopted today by the Foreign Committee of the Senate, and the Senate will deal with this committee resolution, I think, at the Senate meeting on 12 June. At the same time, even today, our President also expressed his opposition to these activities, so I think we are quite in agreement here. The first point of this resolution, which I propose, is that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is extremely concerned about the possible adoption of an amendment to the law on military veterans of the Russian Federation. We fundamentally reject the proposed justification for the amendment, which states the right of troops entering the Warsaw Treaty on the territory of Czechoslovakia on 21 August 1968 in connection with the task of suppressing so-called. an attempt at a coup d'état in Czechoslovakia. Point II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic insists that the occupation of the Czechoslovak army of the Warsaw Treaty was a violation of international law. Point III. The PSP of the Czech Republic notes that this would be a serious violation of the agreement on friendly relations and cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation from 1993. Point IV. The PSP of the Czech Republic expresses a serious concern that, after experience with the occupation of the sovereign territory of Georgia and Ukraine, it could be another attempt by the Russian Federation to legalize any similar violent act. V. PSP of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present this issue without delay at the meeting of the competent authorities of the United Nations and to discuss it primarily with allies within NATO and the European Union. VI. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses interest in political dialogue with the Russian Federation, but only on condition that the Russian Party does not allow the questioning of the principles of international law and the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Czech Republic from 1993.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u3	Ambassador, I understand. I didn't want to interrupt you originally, but I would ask all my colleagues in the room to arrange for peace in their neighborhood to move their own actions or phone calls outside the O.R. so that there would be no such disturbance to hear each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u4	Thank you. The penultimate point of the proposed resolution: VII. The PSP of the Czech Republic calls for the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic to give a joint statement expressing their disagreement with such steps that would lead to the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Act on Military Veterans. This would mean legitimizing the entry of USSR troops into Czechoslovakia in August 1968. VIII. The PSP of the Czech Republic instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Radek Vondráček to present this resolution to the President of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, Vjačeslav Volodin. So much for the resolution. Maybe I'll mention the last argument. It is also necessary to realize that immediately in the August events, but also after them until the departure of these troops from the territory of Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic, about 450 people died as a result of various and traffic accidents and more than 200,000 people left the Czech Republic and emigrated after the August events. So I think, even out of respect and respect for the direct victims, their family members and those affected in any way, we should not be silent as the Chamber of Deputies on similar activities by Russian Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u5	Thank you. Once again, I would like to ask for peace in the House. I will remind you that the motions for resolutions need to be read or submitted to them in a detailed debate. I also open a general debate to which five Members are currently enrolled. However, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura, then President Rakušan. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the efforts of some Russian politicians to admit the status of war veterans to military invasions of Czechoslovakia in 1968 are a disgusting attempt to legitimize the occupation. The only result can be damage to relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. 1968 was a brutal aggression and meant the occupation of Czechoslovakia. And I have already sent a letter in this text to the Russian ambassador in the Czech Republic on behalf of the SPD, and the letter is relatively short, so I would also read it here. "Dear Ambassador, I have noted with great concern the efforts of some politicians in the Russian Federation to grant the status of war veterans to participants in the Soviet army's invasion of Czechoslovakia in August 1968. This step will necessarily and rightly lead to a very significant deterioration of the view of Czech citizens on the Russian Federation. Events associated with the invasion of the Soviet army and subsequent occupation are a chapter of our mutual relations, where it is necessary to openly acknowledge their consequences, including dozens of victims on human sacrifices among Czechoslovak citizens. I have always defended and will defend the share and importance of the Soviet army to liberate Czechoslovakia from the Nazi occupation during World War II. I am very interested in fair and balanced relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. That is why, frankly and openly, I would like to draw your attention to the very negative consequences that can trigger such a move. Thank you for understanding." And also on behalf of the SPD, I propose a resolution, essentially the first three sentences from what I said. So I'm gonna repeat them one more time. It is therefore a resolution, a proposal from the SPD, and it sounds, once again, I will repeat the first three sentences: "The attempt of some Russian politicians to grant the status of war veterans to participants in the military invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 is an abominable attempt to legitimize the occupation. The only result can be damage to relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. 1968 was a brutal aggression and meant the occupation of Czechoslovakia." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u7	Thank you. I will also ask for a reading or appeal to the resolution in a detailed debate. Then there is Mr Holík's factual remark, if that is the case. Anyway, I'll read the note by the time he gets here. Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes to us between 16 and 19 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u8	So, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I wanted to say something here, our President was quicker and significantly more accurate. All I can say is, I remember the occupation, I condemn it. I was 15 years old at the time. I'm one of the few who've been there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u9	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr. Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, first of all, technically speaking. We, as STAN, fully support the motion for a resolution, which was read here by Mr Jurečka from KDU-ČSL. I would really like to remind you of the trauma that 1968 was to the inhabitants of Czechoslovakia. The 20th century was generally a century of various traumatic experiences for the inhabitants of our geographical area. The geographic space that had the bad luck of being on the brink of power wrestling with those powerful powers in the long run. 1968 was a huge disappointment for those who believed that in 1945 a brave Red Army came to free our state from fascist evil, and suddenly the same army entered our territory with a temporary presence, and that was temporarily not limited by any date. [[16.20 hours]] It is completely unacceptable for Russian foreign policy to currently have such ambition to rewrite and change history clearly. This is a forgery of history, because those who have entered our territory were occupations - and in no interpretation that corresponds to the truth, and don't be afraid that the truth is and the truth exists, there are not just different interpretations, and the Russian interpretation is simply false. They were not heroes, they were the ones who entered here to occupy our territory, to prevent the right to self-determination of one self-confident nation, which I'm sure the Čech and Slovák have always been. But I would also like to see the situation in the context of today. The Russian Federation currently - and we are watching it - has various powers of ambition. We have illegal, contrary to international law, the occupation of the territory of Georgia and part of Ukraine, an unprecedented violation of all international agreements, and we need to see the Russian pressure and the Russian step in this context as well. Just Russia, the Russian Federation today, is restoring its power politics, restoring it with all sorts of steps. First, by actually anexi of the territory, there will be, for example, anexi of Crimea, but at the same time, by attempting to interpret inconspicuous attempts at another interpretation of what has happened in that territory in their former interest areas, where Czechoslovakia has always belonged. And here there has simply been an occupation, and we, as Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, should insist on this definition - and I hope that the votes of all Members in our Chamber of Deputies - should insist unambiguously. In addition to the challenges raised in the resolution, I would also like to call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Petříček, to address this issue at the highest diplomatic level, because here we have actually reached the moment when the Russian Federation is unprecedentedly rewriting what happened in our area in 1968 and in the next 20 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u11	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister and Vice Prime Minister Hamáček have now signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to President Rakušan, the occupation in 1968 must be condemned and it must be clearly named. We agree on that. If there has been a call to the Minister, the Minister has done so. He made it very clear, and I want to thank him for that. At the same time, I also want to thank the President of the Republic, who called on the Russian ambassador to give him his reservations regarding the Russian party's progress. So the leading constitutional officials of the Czech Republic are already taking place and I think that we all agree in this House that 1968 cannot be described otherwise than as an occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u13	Thank you, too. We would now get to the duly signed up for the general debate. Mr Lipavský is the first to prepare Mr Žáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, the famous Orwellův quote is that whoever controls the past also has control over the future. Of course, today's debate is about the past, but we must look mainly at the future. Unfortunately, we see that the Russian Federation has long tried to relativize the truth by spreading disinformation, trying to relativize the weight of votes in various attempts to influence democratic elections and referendums. And, of course, when such a message comes from Moscow that negotiations of this type are under way, I think it is appropriate that we feel this very sensitively. I am a little sorry that we are discussing this point today, because we have a foreign committee meeting tomorrow, where the Foreign Minister, who is on a business trip in France today, was to be a guest, if I am not mistaken. That means we'd get the latest and the best information. However, when I look at the Russian Communists' proposal, which they discussed at the round table, but there were all the other MPs in the Russian Duma and there was a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it took place on the Russian Parliament, I think that is sufficient reason for us to deal with this issue here. We, like this House, have a special responsibility, because in 1993, we ratified the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, and this treaty clearly stated that the occupation of Czechoslovakia was an unacceptable use of force and the continued existence of Soviet troops in our territory until 1991 was inconclusive. So any questioning or relativization of the occupation of Czechoslovakia is not only a question of this treaty, and we must make it clear. We are also to address this issue because the tendency to question the occupation of Czechoslovakia is not new at all. There are quite a number of articles and voices where lies spread about the Prague Spring. The documentary films that appear in Russia are quite well described in the paper. There is a tendency to forget history and rewrite history. I don't think we should comment in detail here on how pensions are made for soldiers in Russia. This is a matter that the Russian Federation may adjust, but it was not their fault that they were sent here. They came here by order, it wasn't their will. Of course, Russia can do this in a way that does not rewrite history. I think that today we should adopt a resolution that will confirm our position and possibly invite the Russian Duma not to take any action in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u15	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Žáček, Mr Mihola will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let us ask ourselves how to respond to Russian provocation. I don't think there's any other way to call it. In this sense, I completely disagree with my previous speaker, because I think that since it is an unfinished past, it is necessary to go back to that past and put some things on the table that may also concern the current situation. Before I try to answer this fundamental question, how to react, let us review some of the facts. In response to the democratization process in Czechoslovakia called the Prague Spring, Brežněvův's Soviet Imperial leadership decided to fundamentally address the situation. From 20th to 21st August 1968, as we all know, the armies of five armies of the States of Warsaw Treaty crossed the Czechoslovak border. Despite all the efforts of Soviet agents in the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, at the Ministry of the Interior or in the State Security or in the army, no constitutional or party body officially invited armies of foreign power. From this point of view, it is even indifferent whether Alexander Dubček knew or did not know about the upcoming occupation as then the first secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. [[There's a lot of noise in the left side of the hall.]] By crossing the borders of the occupying army, it violated international law, the sovereignty of Czechoslovakia, and our country was occupied against the will of its own people, as is apparent from the previous paragraph. In addition to the immediate victims of the Čech and Slovák in the first hours and days of the occupation - their list I read with the pieto here last year - dozens more respectively were killed until the gradual departure of Soviet troops from Czechoslovakia by occupation soldiers. Hundreds of inhabitants of Czechoslovakia. Hundreds more were badly or slightly injured. Many women and girls have been raped, etc. Back in 1968 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u17	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace, especially colleagues in the left side of the hall, to move their meetings outside the O.R. if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u18	Even in 1968 and 1969, or shortly after the occupation and just before the onset of normalization, the Czechoslovak authorities joined the partial replacement of the damaged or their families. Of course, the Czechoslovak and Czech authorities continued this process even after the fall of the communist regime after 1989, so they replaced to a large extent the responsible Soviet and subsequently Russian institutions, which, of course, were fully responsible for the occupation. [[16.30 hours]] The August occupation of 1968, of course, also caused extensive material damage, was hit by transport infrastructure, roads, airports, buildings of various state offices, barracks, buildings of connections, transmitters, buildings of Czechoslovak television, radio, which were damaged or even destroyed, as well as the soil fund in the places where the armored technique of the occupiers was located. The symbol of these objects damaged by the occupation until recently was the National Museum. Repairs of these material damage occurred during the standardisation period within the framework of renewed international relations on the part of the Czechoslovak Party. Similarly, other large-scale damage caused by Soviet occupying soldiers between 1968 and 1991 as a result of the known agreement on so-called. temporary residence of Soviet troops. Only after the transfer of the Central Group of Soviet troops in the middle of 1991 was it possible, from the perspective of the Czechoslovak authorities, the authorities of the Czechoslovak state, to find out and document how the vastly Soviet army sailed Czechoslovakia and what environmental damage it caused. We are still dealing with them in some regions today. Therefore, if the proposed law is adopted in the Russian Duma, I propose breaking the existing political taboo of Czech-Russian relations, pulling from the dark archives documentation of the damage caused from 1968 to 1991, adding them up and in full together with the costs of so-called. The temporary stay of the occupying forces is to submit to the Russian Federation. A rough estimate - and we can also use some of the documents of the former Ministry of Financial Control - will be tens of billions in today's prices. Apparently, the time has come. In this case, the Russian Federation as the successor state of the former Imperial Soviet Union should pay the reparations for the stay and activity of the occupying forces between 1968 and 1991 in an adequate amount. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u19	Thank you, too. And now, President Vondráček has asked to speak with priority rights, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u20	I thank you for your word, I apologize to everyone I've outrun. I'm still gonna run the meeting, so I took advantage of my priority rights. I would like to thank my colleague Jurečka for taking the initiative and for placing the point. I think it is good to know the clear position of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on this issue and that it is an excellent starting point for further communication with the Russian Duma. And I would like to refer to what the Minister of the Interior said a while ago, that both the President and I think that all the representatives of the Czech Republic will take a clear position on this. However, in order to explain the situation, I also have the position of the Government of the Russian Federation, which is renegade. This is an initiative by a Communist Member in cooperation with other Members, i.e. a minority view. This is an initiative that has already been presented in the Duma three times since 2016. This is some effort to please voters or to grant a higher pension to some former military members, and the Russian Federation's government clearly says that the conditions for accepting the status of some kind of combat mission are not met. So, please, let us approach it this way. I do not have a problem with any of those points of the resolution, except perhaps paragraphs 4 and 5, where I think that we would - I therefore suggest that we then vote separately on the various points of the resolution, so that it is clear to us how sensitive the occupation for the Czechs is in 1968 and that it is essential for us to have a 1993 treaty and that it is incontrovertible and that it must take care of this in the Russian House and must lead this in the light. On the other hand, I would really like to point out here that maybe this debate is wider than it deserves to be an initiative. And we only have some information from the pages of the Russian Duma, as far as I know where it's coming from that there's been a round table. This is a very extreme and minority opinion within the Russian Duma. This is how I approach this and I will be happy to adopt the resolution in question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u21	Thank you. I have noted the request for a separate vote, but the resolution is not even individually loaded yet. Now, please, Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many things that have been said here, and I will follow this up freely and briefly, if possible. I would just like to add to what the President of the House has said here, so that we don't downplay it and simplify it. First of all, if there was one such situation in history and we hadn't noticed anything else, one might actually think that it was a mistake or a figment of some Members of reason, but I think that there is more than enough danger from the Russian side and that it can be expected that if someone doesn't enforce it now or someone will deny it to him that someone else will come back with it. Plus, I really think it's a pretty serious thing. When the Czech President, the Foreign Minister and we have it here as a special point, it can't be some kind of crap that we'd be waving our hands at, like it's no big deal or that we're not gonna be able to control it anyway. We need to be clear, the reaction must be clear, quick and decisive. And I want to point it out here, among other things, because you know, the most evil in history came from various confusions of terms, from different false interpretations and untruths. Try to browse through history sometime, and you'll really find out. So any such completely senseless, I would say impertinent suggestion is the seed of future evil, and that it has already been so many in history! Last year we reminded ourselves of 50 years since the invasion of the Warsaw Treaty forces followed by the occupation. The fact that it was nothing short-term indicates that we could not shake it for 20 years or more than 20 years and thus succeeded after the Velvet Revolution. [[th au]] The nation, which experienced the spring of Prague and sought democratization processes, was humiliated, but it didn't just stay there. The tragedy of August 1968 is crowned as the huge memento by 135 victims of citizens, civilians who lost their lives, and other victims followed in 1969. We must have great respect for them, and we also have - every year we remind ourselves - and we must never forget this. I would like to refer to who would like to be more interested in this, so it was on the occasion of last year's commemoration of the 50 years of the occupation, so the book of the husbands Kratochvílův, Daniel Povolný and Jiří Kratochvíl, which is called "1968 to 1969" with the subtitle "The 50th anniversary of the occupation of Czechoslovakia by the Warsaw Treaty Treaty 1968." Please, there are all those stories of the victims, so if you ever need it, or if you're in some kind of confusion, how many of them were there, it's in that book in a complete, clear way, everything is filed and brought closer, so that we really don't forget. And on this occasion, I would like to come up with a proposal that was discussed a year ago, and I think that now is the right moment, and that is the bill, or the amendment to the Act on State Holidays and Important Days and Days of Working Peace, as amended, where it would be newly written, it is proposed to introduce as an important day on August 21st as a memorable day for the victims of the invasion and subsequent occupation of the Warsaw Treaty military. [[16.40 hours]] I think it's brief, clear, accurate, and I've consulted with historian experts in particular. I can mention Professor Jaroslav Šebek for all of them, but there were quite a number of them. They supported me in this, and with these I have finally drawn up the wording which is in the justification of this proposal. The proposal is available to all Members' clubs here in the House, and because I think that the matter is quite clear that there is no need to meditate on it, to think for a long time that either a person is clear about it today and here, or he won't be clear about it, even if it was in a month, I think that whoever you want to express your consent to it here, and at the same time as a response to what is happening in the Russian House with your signature. No one is forced, everyone is invited. I would consider it ideal if we see it as an invasion and occupation, as well as in the calendar of important days. Because August 21st is one of the most tragic dates of our modern history. The invasion of armies of the Warsaw Treaty was without reason, meant the end of democratization and humanistic efforts to reform the socialist system in Czechoslovakia, but also, as I pointed out, the victims of the lives of innocent civilians. That is why I believe that this day should be remembered as a memory of these innocent victims and as a memento so that nothing like this will ever happen again. Thank you for your attention and please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u23	Thank you, too. I would like to ask for more peace in the hall during the speeches. Next, Mrs Němcová is enrolled in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to make a few comments on this. The first is that the Citizen's Democratic Party Parliamentary Club dealt with information at its regular meeting yesterday about what is currently taking place in the Russian Duma, and we gave our opinion yesterday at a regular press conference. Therefore, I would mention, in particular, that in a fundamental way our parliamentary club refuses to rewrite history, the repeated efforts that come from the Russian side, whether we look at the various provocations towards the Baltics, the Nordic States, but also the repeated provocations towards the Czech Republic, whether they are the Spaniard Night Wolf rides or similar activities. So we have dealt with this, we welcome the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which criticises the proposal of the Russian law. I will remind you that this law should be recognised by participants in the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia from 1968 as war veterans. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček said, thus highlighting the seriousness of the situation that such activity is in sharp violation of international law. Secondly, it should be noted that the Slovak party also responded to this, and then we were occupied by Czechoslovakia, so if the Czech Parliament were to be heard today, it also applies to Slovakia as well. Slovak Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini said that the Russian bill would be one of the topics of his forthcoming official visit to Moscow. He also stressed that he considered the occupation of the '68th year to be a gross violation of international law. If, therefore, for our Minister of Foreign Affairs, if it is a topic for the highest representatives of the Slovak Republic that they wish to carry forward, not only to discuss them on domestic soil, but to transfer them to a direct partner, i.e. to the Russian side, I think it is adequate for the Chamber of Deputies to communicate their position. For this reason, I also welcome the fact that this topic has come to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I thank my colleagues from KDU-ČSL who brought this proposal that we said yesterday at the press conference here. I am pleased that we can discuss it, and we support the resolution that has been proposed in a comprehensive way. Just to add this: The bill, as the President of the Chamber of Deputies said, is perhaps not so serious, so it must be said that the bill was presented by the Russian Communist Party, which held a round table meeting, which took place on 30 May, if the information we have from Czech sources is accurate. Representatives of all the factions - all the factions - attended the meetings according to information! - members of the Defence Committee and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Social Organisations. So the cross-cutting political spectrum and social organisations took part in the roundtable negotiations, and the result of the meeting of more than 60 participants was the approval of a resolution calling on Members to support the draft law. I am convinced, as has been said here, that since 50 years have passed since the occupation last year - and among us, I also belong to the memorials, I was 16 years old at the time, I am certainly not alone in the Chamber of Deputies, who realizes how immensely his life, the life of his loved ones, was marked by the lives of his family for the next 20 years. There was talk about the dead, there was talk about the hundreds of thousands who emigrated from our country, and to this day we must miss them because we have lost outstanding talents, brains and people who are not simply replaceable. But there was no mention of those who remained, many of which were closed at the time of normalization. There was no mention of those in desperate acts - and we remembered this year in January, the death of Jan Palach, the subsequent death of Jan Zajíc, and then acts of a similar nature - who, out of desperation over the marasma of the former Czechoslovak society, chose the most horrible weapon and led themselves out of the world to protest precisely what was happening in our country. You need to remember them, too. To all lives during which people in those 20 years could not apply all their abilities, education, and talents to lead a normal, normal single life, as we enjoy it today. I mean, as a memoir, we have to say the obvious word that it was an occupation, that it was an act of war, that it was a violation of international law. And my personal amendment to this is that I believe that this test balloon, whether it has any deeper significance in Russia's internal life or not, is a test balloon that Russia is again verifying, as far as it can interfere with the territory of its influence, whether it can reach back to where it was before 1989. And we must say clearly that we will never allow it. I would also like to say, and it is my conclusion that I think that the last point, the eighth point of the motion for a resolution, says that we are asking the President of the Chamber of Deputies to inform the President of the House of Deputies about this resolution, and maybe we can use the other way, if we consider it reasonable, but that is not a recommendation at all I propose that this be in the resolution. I think it is right that it should be the President of the House, but given that the Organizing Committee today, about two hours ago, approved the way of the Vice-President, the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, to participate in the 2nd International Forum, which is called the Development of Parliamentaryism and is organised by the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of Russia in Moscow, it will be about a month, 30. 6... 3. 7. this year, it would be good, after informing the President of the Assembly of Parliament on the Russian side, to take advantage of this opportunity also the first Vice-President of the House, given that there will be about 120 delegations from all over the world, Parliamentaries, so it would be good for them to hear the voice of the Czech Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Vondráček, now with a factual remark, will then be prepared by Mr Zaorálek. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u26	Thank you for the floor. We're not in a dispute. I just really want to put it right, I didn't say it wasn't a serious matter. I think it's a serious thing, it's a good thing if we call you back. And if the Russian Federation wants to have a good dialogue with us and it wants to - and I believe it does - and it wants to deal with us in terms of our history, it must respect the position of the Czech Republic on this point that it was an occupation. I consider it appropriate to turn myself directly as President - I respond to the next question. Please, I didn't say it wasn't serious, I just hope and believe it was a minority initiative. And there is also the position of the Government of the Russian Federation. This has already taken place once before, as far as I know, and 355 did not vote at all, 2 abstained, and perhaps only 93 was in favour. So I believe that this proposal, which is for us, and we can rightly negotiate, is provocative, so that it is only a minority matter. And even that round table is a thing that happened, but it's not an official position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u27	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Langšádlová's factual remark, then with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman, I'm concerned about you. I simply want to understand that you expect the Russian Federation to conduct a good dialogue with us. Please, look around. Look what's going on around us! Since the '90s, a frozen conflict in Transnistria. 2008 - cast of Abkhazia, South Ossetia. Followed by the occupation of Crimea. Followed by Donetsk and Luhan region. You know, I've been with my colleagues in Sweden and Iceland these past few days. The first thing you hear from the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is their minister: we are threatened by Russia. They give their residents manuals on what to do in the event of a crisis and war. And if you ask them who they feel threatened by the Švéd or the Islanďan, the first thing they'll tell you is that it's the Russian Federation. Look how they're interfering with their territory. The Švéd, the Islanďan, the Nor... And you can go backwards. You can see what they do in the countries of the Western Balkans. Take a look at how the interventions in all elections and referendums look. Like open your eyes and realize what's going on around us! You can't be serious about this, can you? Like don't underestimate what's happening around us! These are completely real things, real steps. And when these threats are mentioned by our intelligence services, or, for example, General Pavel, who knows well what he is talking about in terms of NATO leadership, please, please do not underestimate as one of the highest constitutional agents the threats we face, not just as we are the Czech Republic, but also the other countries of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u29	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u30	Thank you. Mr President, members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am happy to hear the opinion of my colleague, Miroslava Němcová, and may I tell her by your means that if I am empowered to do so, I will convey the position of the Czech Parliament to my colleagues in the Russian House. I do not know the content of the meeting and I have already taken steps to learn about the roundtable meeting, so I have sent a question to the Vice-President for Foreign Policy of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation. But on the other hand, I must say that we have not dealt with this here, on the contrary, we praised colleague Petříček when he praised or did not protest the law on veterans of Ukraine. And I could quote the call that speaks of the status of war veterans and the guarantee of their social protection, adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament. The problem is that Ukraine, both against the Russian Federation and against its former states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, i.e. in the territory of the former Soviet Union, is talking about veterans who participated in the fights from the countries and territorial struggles of Algeria 1962 to 1964 etc., but there is also, iron, Czechoslovakia on 20 August 1968 to 1 January 1969. That's in the Ukrainian proposal. That's why I didn't vote to put it on tonight. I complied with my colleague Jurečka when he came to me to place the point. I think I didn't argue with him whether it was half an hour after the opening, or not, and I let it happen with the fact that I respect that we should probably prepare the resolution in the Foreign Committee first and take care of it. Since this is not a relationship with the Russian Federation, it is given by the 1993 friendship agreement. And I really want this contract not to be terminated, because that would put quite a lot of things at risk here. We have a complex social security law with the Russian Federation and those who work there or work as experts on various matters, or our companies are there, so of course it has an impact on relations between the two states on the level of individual rights of the citizens of the Czech Republic, or the citizens of the Russian Federation who work with us in any way. So I guess we need to consider this text. We will, of course, adopt the resolution. And I must say that the question of our relationship, I mean the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, as of August 1968, is quite well known. And when we were 30 years ago, and I am proud to say that I was able to formulate some resolutions of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which dealt with the situation in 1968, with Zdeněk Klanica, and we did not spare the political leaders of the former KSČ who failed at that time. So I'm just saying that I have no problem with this point. I will do what the Chamber of Deputies has to do to me, if they do so by a resolution, and I will introduce them to our resolution. But let me remind you that it is important for me, too, that this relationship, which is now established by the 1993 treaty, should be maintained and acted upon. As regards other proposals, such as war reparations, let those who voted in favour of the negotiations on war reparations with the Federal Republic of Germany talk about them. Since Greece has done so, Poland has done so, and we have not yet done so on the proposal of our Member, Mr Jiří Valenta. And I note that the damages still belong to us. And it's true that we're not talking about it, and we're also usually looking back on the fact that there's some kind of agreement that's been going on for 20 years, and we've had some reservations about it. Yet this question has not yet been opened. And I think the damage was much greater - material and human lives. So please, if we want to do something, I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to be consistent in our proposals, because then it seems that we do not have an equal relationship with our past. So much for me. And I am merely reminding and suggesting a break before the vote on the amendments. And I would like those proposals to be assessed by the Foreign Committee tomorrow so that we do not get into a crisis, not against the Russian Federation, but that we do not get into a crisis situation with Ukraine. That's where the law is. I'm pointing out that he's actually in there with the Verch Council proposal. So, of course, this needs to be examined from a point of view in relation to Germany, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria. The only country that didn't participate was Romania at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will just make sure that you update the motion for a suspension before the vote, after reading the amendments. [[Vice-President Vojtěch Filip: After reading the resolution.]] After reading the resolution, okay. And now, Mr Zaorálek, Mr Bžoch will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u32	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. And let me, therefore, contribute to our debate by stating a few facts that I find essential for the debate and which have not yet been mentioned, or merely been suggested. I consider it absolutely essential for our ongoing discussion that the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we have probably read here and we know it, the concern that has been formulated from the Czech Republic, we already have an opinion and we have an answer, because the Russian ambassador speaking for the Russian Federation has made it quite clear in his statement that the Russian Federation confirms the validity of the 1993 Treaty, particularly the preamble, in which it is said that both sides want to put an end to the totalitarian past associated with the unacceptable use of force against Czechoslovakia in 1968 and the subsequent inconclusive stay of Soviet troops. I consider this communication of the Minister, the State Department, actually, and ambassadors to our debate to be truly essential. And why do I think that? I can explain that if we get to what we're actually talking about here today. Guys, that draft of the communists that was discussed on that round table of 30. 5., here, as I think it has already been said, is not the first time, he was already presented in 2016, in 2018. It is about admitting to those who have completed 70 years and older soldiers who have been through such events in Ethiopia, Cuba and Czechoslovakia in 1968, some social support - that is not important - some social support. And for it to be granted to be veterans, they'd have to go through some kind of struggle. That is why the proposal claims that here in Czechoslovakia in 1968 they had to face coups and have to stabilize society. And that is the important moment, because this proposal - I would like you to listen to me carefully - this moment and this Russian government rejected it in 2016 and 2018! And listen to the argument that the Russian Ministry of Defense and the Russian government rejected. They said that these in Czechoslovakia could not be granted this, simply because - and that is interesting to me - that this act was not decided by any state authorities at the time, which was one of the prerequisites for paying somebody's contributions to such events as a veteran, and the other for having to fight here, but according to the Russian government, they did not deal with Czechoslovak troops or any counter-revolutionary groups. That's the argument used by the Russian government in both cases. And since the Russian Federation is now telling us by the mouth of the ambassador that it is behind what is in the preamble that it was unacceptable to use force, I am deduceing that there is a decent chance that the Russian government will repeat this position. All the more so, that relatively, almost in hours, Slovak Prime Minister Pellegrini will meet with Foreign Minister Lajčák, even Russian President Putin, and I may say that they also have this item on the agenda, and my guess is that something similar will happen to Miloš Zeman when he was there when he was visiting, and we were dealing with a similar problem that Russian television, perhaps remembering it, published a show in which she spoke about 1968. And Putin demented it back then and officially said this wasn't a Russian position. That means I might as well appeal to the fact that not only Putin, Jelcin, in the past, declared the occupation of 1968 morally inexcusable. That is why I am convinced - I do not want to anticipate and I do not want to say that there is no point in discussing this, I am just telling you all the arguments why I believe that at this moment, especially after what the Russian ambassador has said, I see for myself that this is relatively - I do not want to say that this is a certainty, but I think that is quite clear. In my opinion, the Russian party cannot afford simply to support with these official statements a proposal that is going back to the problem that we have already solved in the 1993 Treaty. [[He speaks with an ever stronger voice.]] That is why I am saying right here for myself that I cannot identify with some of the points of the resolution that is being tabled here, because, in this situation, turning to the UN, NATO and the European Union, I just find it hysterical! Don't be angry with me, my friends, but we must have some confidence and some dignity! We're like equals and we don't need to run somewhere, begging for someone to stand up for us! We're not that bad! [[Member Jaroslav Foldyna applauds.]] That is why I say that the points of the resolution in this sense are not in order. And I'm just, don't be mad at me, but putting it on the foreign committee is the same as putting something here on the medical committee. Health, however, no one dares to judge foreign policy, as everyone seems to have. But let's vote it out, I can settle for rejecting some points, at least those who agree with me, or put it on the Foreign Committee. The will of the House is the law. I respect that. I'm just pointing out that it would be good to respect the rules of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u33	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Benešík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u34	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. The problem is precisely the reason that it is official that the soldiers here performed their tasks in suppressing the attempted coup and in securing the stabilization of the situation in the Czech Republic during the extensive military strategic operation of the Warsaw Treaty Member States from 21 August to November 1968. And what President Zaorálek said is symptomatic. It's just that the official justification of the Russian government is not that it wasn't. The key message was that they didn't just meet here with proper resistance. But the fact that it was an occupation, the Russian side kind of fabulouss and paints. And that's the big problem we have here. And I would like to say that at the time of normalization, that's what foreign diplomats called me, there was a joke among them, namely that Czechoslovakia is the most unruly country in the world, because Czechoslovakia doesn't even interfere with its own affairs. In a number of areas, the commander of the Western Circuit, a Soviet officer, had greater powers than the entire political representation of Czechoslovakia at the time. And I am very pleased that neither does the President appreciate this, nor does the Senate underestimate it, and I think it is now time for the Chamber of Deputies to say clearly that at least we feel equal because I have the impression from many of the Russian Federation's representatives that they do not take us so decisively.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u35	Thank you. And now, Mrs Němcová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u36	Thank you for the floor. I, Mr Vice-President, wanted to respond in my point of fact to the words of Mr Zaorálek, unfortunately he is not here, but that is okay. I would just like to say that I believe that the normal rules - fair rules - are being followed here - are being followed by the Chamber of Deputies. I don't understand his final scream. Because what's not normal about it if there's a meeting in the Russian Duma involving the Czech Republic? The Russian Duma is a legislative body of the Russian Federation, a legislative body, part of the legislative body of the Czech Republic is the Chamber of Deputies. There's supposed to be an opinional conflict on these two fields. We have presented here our reasons why we think it is right to react, no matter how serious the party is, more seriously, no matter who gives any opinion, we simply cannot let these attempts pass unnoticed and become a sort of rag that the Rus will ever wipe their feet about us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u37	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Holík. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u38	Dear colleagues, let me, through the President, respond to the words of my fellow Němcová. We're dealing with a Russian Duma decision here, or two crazy MPs? I am telling these crazy Members that I do not respect them. But the Russian Duma hasn't given any opinion yet. Then why are we dealing with something else?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u39	Thank you. And I would ask that we also watch our language, if necessary, in our speeches to the Members of other Houses. And now, please, with Mr Jurečka's factual comment, then Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u40	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the previous speaker. I wouldn't suggest that point if it weren't for representatives of other factions, including the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, who took place on the round table that took place on Parliament's floor. If someone had spoken at that meeting and said that they did not agree with such a justification for this amendment. No one's heard from anyone, and until this morning, there was no reaction at all. Today, yes, perhaps the ambassador of the Russian Federation in Prague has heard from him in the last few hours. But remember, if there was a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation who said - beware, it is in contradiction with our international agreement or interstate agreement between two states. That didn't ring a bell. That's why I don't think it's just a question of some crazy two, they were the three plaintiffs, like you said. That's why the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u41	Thank you. And now, Mrs Němcová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u42	Thanks again for the word. For Mr Holík, who I wish to respond to in my point of fact. In my opening words, I read what was happening in the Duma, not saying that it was the Duma's decision, not even in my factual remark. And for your information, I repeat: The Round Table on 30 May was attended by representatives of all parliamentary factions - representatives of all parliamentary factions - members of the Defence Committee, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and social organizations. A total of 60 participants approved the resolution with a call for an amendment to the law. That's what I'm talking about. If you're talking about two crazy communist Russian MPs, that's your interpretation. I have seriously described to you here who took part in this meeting and what support the amendment has taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u43	Thank you. And now, please, for the general debate, Mr Bžoch, Mr Luzar will be prepared. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, there is Mr. Gazdík's apology from 17.30 today for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, it's a good thing we're talking about this today. It's a good thing we have that point here today. What happened in August 1968 was a crime, it was an occupation, it was a violation of the international treaty, and it was an invasion of troops into our territory. That's what we all agree on across here. And the only thing we don't agree on is a debate that's outraged here, who's ever said anything in the Russian House. I don't know, I wasn't at the meeting. Of course, we also support the motion for a resolution proposed by Mr Jurečka, with the fact that there are only two complaints, virtually. We're not voting for two points that we think doesn't belong there right now. It is important to discuss this, it is important to remember this history, it is important to tell the House what we think about it, it is important to send out this signal to the Russian Federation. With regard to the resolution that we will not vote for, there is a call for the Czech Government to present it to the UN and NATO authorities, because we think that nothing has yet been done to deal with them there. And the next is point four, when it's like Georgia and Ukraine, because we think the situation was just different. However, I do not neglect what is happening. Of course we perceive it, we perceive Russia as much as the opposition. We know how Russia behaves. However, at these provocations, I don't think we should jump at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u45	I thank you, and now Mr Luzar, Mr Valenta will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my concern, ladies and gentlemen, is this detail, which was discussed in the words of the previous speakers - the evil Russia. And did you notice the lyrics that were coming from this place? That was back there - we're fighting against the evil Russia. The evil Russia. I'm not taking your worldview, but I'm going back to the foundation we're discussing today. There was a round table on Parliament's floor. Take a look at your emails, colleagues and colleagues, how many round tables and various debates are going on in this Parliament. Are you willing to put your hand in the fire that there are no words on these round tables and debates that you would be ashamed of, even if you were present, for you were invited and out of decency, because you are interested in the subject, you go there and look? How many minutes of these negotiations do you have written that you protested what was said there, possibly. have you abstained from voting if there has been a call to the Government or Parliament? Let's say. I'm sure SPD colleagues here could tell you about their seminars, which they then defended in their positions, and they were unhappy about how they all fell apart on them. Suddenly they turn around and do the exact same thing. Let's remember the seminars and round tables that were here. So let's also think about the level of debate in different parliaments and discussion groups around the world. Russia doesn't, of course. There's been a problem of history rewriting. That's a very serious problem. At this year's celebrations of the liberation of Czechoslovakia, after all Europe, we witnessed the fact that it was forgotten and liked to rewrite who freed us. We don't remind ourselves of that, or we use it politically. That was the bad Russia. We forget the Soviet Union and others. We're talking about what they've allowed themselves to do, that they want to appreciate or retire or improve those soldiers who followed orders, and that they're rewriting history. That they did it stupidly, I'm sure they did. The Russian government has already heard from it, and here I have heard the only relevant argument that there is an official statement from the Russian Federation ambassador who is making a clear point of view, and the quote here was accurate. There was another reminder. In fact, the same or very similar proposal was adopted by Ukraine, where it has already made it clear that the soldiers who are Ukrainian citizens today and were here in '68 have these advantages. Where did you stand, colleagues and colleagues, for not protesting this law from Ukraine? Where have you been? Why didn't you notice? Why didn't you protest this and want help in the UN and NATO to make amends in Ukraine? Or are you just reacting to some article in the paper that someone wrote and that they fit in the store, so let's go with it? I think that you are responding only to the article in the paper, although my colleague Jurečka spoke so precisely here, Mr President, that I thought that he was even at the meeting because he knew exactly who almost said it and how it was accepted and whether someone was protesting there or not, he spoke quite fundamentally that he had the information. Of course it is a certain exaggeration, my colleague Jurečka certainly was not there and read only the same article as me. We're talking about what our painful history is. 1968. We all feel it as a painful history of the Czech nation, and I feel it as a very painful history of the communist movement in general. And it has greatly damaged us in our future and in our thinking about how to form the world and how to go to a better future. [[17.20 hours]] But I want to get back to one more thing. There's been talk of a... poor ghost, here's a note. I remember, and I had the opportunity to see, like every year, proposals to honor the Mašín murderers. And there are many colleagues and colleagues who might even like to sign on to this proposal. Isn't that from a similar keg? About trying to rewrite history and trying to turn rounds of history and say they weren't killers, they were victims, they were heroes because they had a noble goal. I think that if we go back to reality, there was some debate in a foreign parliament, there was a round table that adopted some recommendation for the legislature. It was clearly said here that the government rejected this, I think the government of the Russian Federation refused this, there is a clear position here from the ambassador of the Russian Federation. If we have anything to contribute, yes, let's do the things that have already happened, that is, Ukraine. And I wonder which one of you, colleagues, will find the courage and face up to the condemnation of Ukraine in this resolution. Whether this bill will require the withdrawal and removal of these soldiers, because of course that is also the case. That is why I am intercede to this proposal that has been made here, and this hearing has been suspended and transferred to the foreign committee's premises, as has been said here, and to the foreign committee with knowledge of things and arguments as it has been done there and what official positions are, where appropriate, recommended this House to adopt a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u47	Thank you. I'm making sure you're not making any proposals at the moment. And I have here, with the factual remark of Mr Lipavský, then Mr Benešík, then Mr Zaorálek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luzar's speech could be taken into the textbook of the argument fouls, because the evil Russia has not been spoken of much. In his speech, Mr. Filip built a so-called straw shot, which is a false argument that you make, and then you beat him instead of the real thing, that maybe the treaty is to be canceled. And so-called whataboutism, it means that you point to the others, which Mr. Luzar showed us when he was talking about how many round tables are held here in Prague, it really amused me. The reality is that the occupation of 1968 extended the communist horror of the KSČ's operation here for another 21 years. And I think it is no shame that the House will take a clear position on this issue, that it will send out a clear signal, correct, unhysterical, on which we agree. And, of course, the other things Mr. Luzar here says, it seemed to me that he's from the realm of fairy tales, because we don't really care who has what pensions he's really made up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u49	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Maybe I'll read it forever. It was clear here that we were not going to interfere with their proposals to solve the social systems of retired soldiers. That's not the problem. The problem is the justification. And I don't know that Ukraine had such a reason. We do not want to talk to Ukraine or the Russian Federation. But what the Russian Federation is using in that justification is that those soldiers were doing their job in suppressing the attempted coup d'état, and so on, and so on, that's the core problem. That's our point. Not that the Ukrainian or Russian government will add to the retired soldiers. That's really their business. But it's about how it's justified. And I don't know that anyone in Ukraine would say in the justification of retirement or improvement, that it wasn't aggression and that it was brotherly help. At least part of the Russian political scene claims this, and the bill thus justifies it. And that's what bothers us! And that's the big difference!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u51	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u52	I would like, and I have years to support, through Mr Benešík, the President. Because what we're talking about here is that we want to say out loud that trying to revolutionize and trying to get out of the clutches of bloody tyrants who were killing Czech fellow citizens here from 1948 to 1968 wasn't counter-revolution, wasn't suppressing counter-revolution, but it was an attempt to regain freedom. Nothing else! And that's what we're here to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u53	Thank you. And now, Mr Valenta is in the debate. Mr. Foldyna will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the beginning of my performance I would like to respond to an otherwise highly esteemed colleague Benešík. He is slightly mistaken because I, here in this resolution presented to me by the People's Party, read point 7 and it is clearly written that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the highest constitutional officials to make a joint statement expressing their opposition to such actions that would lead to the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Act on Military Veterans. So even in that resolution, you have that you are protesting the law on military veterans, not any other conventions by the Russian Federation. There may also be, but on other points. But ladies and gentlemen, let me make one very brief remark to the point. In part, Vice-President Filip and then my colleague Luzar spoke about the problem. I submit that I personally consider the occupation of our country of the Warsaw Treaty troops to be an obvious act of violation of international law. In my opinion, it shouldn't have happened. After all, this whole invasion, in my opinion, has done the whole socialism as such essentially a bear service and has also disrupted very friendly until then, and I underline the relationship between Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union, meant between the simple Czechs and the citizens of the Soviet Union still very well remembered by war events. Paradoxically, I am also pleased that this issue is being discussed in the House today, and even for the fact that some political party representatives are performing so forcefully today with their major proclamations. Sadly, however, in addition to other things, their righteous anger may also be undergoing a high degree of hypocrisy, and some previous speakers stumbled upon it in their speeches. I'm sure we remember that war veteran law in Ukraine. Vice-President Filip spoke of him, and I will only partially supplement and elaborate. It was a huge subject, causing a huge commotion, and even an international commotion. And this law, you know, only modified, in quotes, benefits, and the status of war veterans granted to banderos strongly collaborating with the Nazi regime, which resulted in dozens of millions of dead victims, both civilian and military. And what did Secretary of State Petříček say? He, after a strong wave of criticism, has long been silent about the matter, and only later has he made a long statement stating - now I quote - that "the law discussed is an internal matter of the past and that the complex aspects of history must be resolved by each country itself"? In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic embarrassedly claimed that the problem of banderians is a matter of examining historians. I'm asking. Is the invasion supposed to be the subject of an investigation by historians in 1968, or does the Russian party have to resolve these matters in connection with the 1968 invasion, including the military veterans law, on its own? No way. And if you think so, then withdraw all the motions for your resolutions. As a shameful sticking of the head into the sand not only of the Czech government, but of the Chamber of Deputies, this approach was also criticized by the President of the Republic Miloš Zeman. Jewish organizations from different states of Europe and the world were also strongly opposed to the law on the recognition of bander veterans as war veterans with all the advantages associated with them. I personally intersected not only Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček, but also Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. After all, we all know that the banderos massacred Volyňské Bohemia, mass murdered Polák, Žid, women, children, even infants. Please nicely, I repeat, it was Čech and Slovák, which I would like to say also this matter concerns us, in addition to the occupation in 1968, and also concerns us. [[17.30 hours]] národ, know, Moscow, Poland, Maďar, Judaism are your enemies. Take them out. Destroy the Žid, the Polák, destroy them without mercy. Even such words were spoken from Ukraine. Now, please listen carefully - these words were spoken in 2015. And what was the reaction of our House a few months ago to the war prize of bandereos and the admission of military merit? Basically minimal to none, or rather not saying anything, and it was just waiting for this shameful problem to go away on its own. Ukraine is heavily armed today against the Russian Federation, and why continue to weaken it with some resolutions, isn't it? And in this I see the hypocrisy of some, and each of us sitting here knows who it is. And I wanted to draw particular attention to this in my contribution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u55	Thank you and now, with the factual remark of Mr Jurečka, then Mr Žáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u56	Thank you. I would like to respond here to both previous speakers, Members of the Communist Party Club. Just briefly. I have not read one article by far, so let my colleague Luzar, through Mr President, say which one. First of all, I've read several of them, I've read the Foreign Ministry's statement, and I've also called the people at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to verify these things so that I really have the information as close as possible from the source. So so much only that I would never dare to propose such a crucial thing here in the House's attic on the basis of reading one newspaper article. So I just don't work. I'm not aware that anyone here has said anything about bad Russia. I certainly did not, as a petitioner, proposer of this point. The meeting of various round tables on the House floor has been mentioned here. I am not aware of the time that I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for six years that information has come out of a round table like this that could lead to a contradiction between the agreements concluded between the Czech Republic and other states and that could lead to the questioning of historical events at such a level as is happening in this case. So much. And I don't think it's a bad thing, and I don't think it's even necessary for us to interrupt it and put it at the Foreign Committee meeting, considering that the President is also calling the Russian ambassador to meet on this matter. So I think the Chamber of Deputies is such a sovereign that we can still discuss it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u57	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr. Mr. Žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u58	Thank you for the floor. One feels that there are more arguments here that belong to the Duma and not to the Czech Parliament in relation to what we are talking about. I think that Soviet propaganda, virtually. Communist propaganda before 1989, both in relation to Ukraine, bander, and the relationship of the Soviet Union, has very strong supporters here. But first of all, it's a distraction from what we're talking about here. I agree with my colleague Benešík, who clearly, pregnantly formulated our relationship with the law, and I might add that the Ukrainian law has there, that it does not concern those who committed war crimes. Will the Russian law also apply to all those soldiers of the occupying armies who came in August 1968 and later and who committed war crimes here? Has Russia or the Soviet Union previously tried to bring these people to justice? We have the dead, we have remembered them, and we should also want those criminals who committed the crimes and were not few to be clearly identified. That's what today's debate is all about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u59	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u60	Hello. I would turn to my previous speaker, Mr Žáček, by means of you. I was listening to you. You're saying that murdering bander and UPA between 1941 and 1944 is prosoviet propaganda, that it's not real? Did you say that in the Chamber of Deputies in front of hundreds of thousands of victims of these things? Can you repeat that one more time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u61	Thank you, and Mr Žáček will respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u62	Although I also consider this to be a diversion in a completely different direction from what we are talking about here, I will point out that the situation was so complex that the crimes that a fellow Communist colleague mentioned here, for example, were committed on the ground of Ukraine, Belarus, but also Russia itself by the Soviet partisans. And there's a very valuable literature for that today, even translated, published by Academia. Mr. Colleague, read it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u63	A point of fact - Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u64	Mr President, on your behalf to my colleague Žáček. My colleague, shame on you! Shame on you, because to justify the banners for what they did not only to the Czech nation, by currently fighting against Russia, the fact, be ashamed! And to my colleague Jurečka through you. Mr. Colleague, when you consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as you say here, did you consult with him and your resolution? Because the text and the points that are there, I'd be very happy to hear you say to which official or who from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs you consulted. I'd really like to know his name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u65	Thank you. At this point, I have an application for a debate - Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u66	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would like to say at the beginning of my speech that I would like to sign up for this proposal by my colleague Mihola and colleagues from the People's Party to write on the Czech calendar as an important day on 21 August. August 21, 1968 changed the lives of thousands of Čechoslovák and generations of Čechoslovák. My life changed, too. It was an occupation, and there's nothing to discuss here. In 1968 and subsequent years, the Czech nation and the Czechoslovak nation were twisted, the character of this nation, and it is evident that we still carry the twist with us. A twist in the form of hypocrisy, which we hear here, of course, sometimes. Today, guerrillas and guerrillas are performing on May 10th with a clear view. I never heard of them until 1989. It's weird. Speaking of the bill in the Russian House, which is being lectured by a retro group of Communist Members, not by the political guarantee of the Russian Federation, but by a group of retros of some foolish Members who suggest that the occupation of Czechoslovakia be lightened by an act and their soldiers were rewarded by their country. If the Russian Federation had accepted this, it would have accepted the burden of bad deeds of the former Soviet Union. They'd be foolish and crazy to accept it. I'm sure that's not gonna happen. We're talking about Abkhazia, Ossetia, etc. in the context of Russia. Speak also in the context that the Czech Parliament refused to recognise Kosovo in 2008, and it was your Minister Karel Schwarzenberg and your Prime Minister of Civil Democrats who recognised Kosovo in violation of the position of the Czech Parliament, but also in violation of international law that was violated. Resolution 1244, which has never been repealed, applies, and we are hypocritically trying to infiltrate the russophobia here in some foolish law that some MPs in Russia are trying to do, a minority group - I believe that this law cannot be passed because it is against historical events. In 1993, the Russian Federation refused to accept the occupation of Czechoslovakia as some kind of brotherly aid. [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] When Mrs Němcová here speaks of the Night Wolves, you may have seen them on TV, my colleague, through Mr President. I talked to these people. None of them, none of them here spoke of 1968 as a legitimate intervention of Soviet troops. I would like to tell you that they come here every year on May 9, or in May events to honor the flowers of 140,000 of their grandfathers and great-grandfathers who fought for my life and for yours! And for yours! And that you don't appreciate it, that's your business and your conscience! They don't say anything about 1968. [[17.40 hours]] And it's shameful that we're still trying to twist history. Yes, it was also said here, what an outrage it caused you... those bander veterans in Ukraine. I didn't hear anything like that from the right spectrum. You didn't perform here, that you were outraged, that they cut off the heads of Volyně Čech. That didn't upset you. But the Russian Night Wolves on motorcycles will upset you. They come and go, they just put down the flowers. Sorry, I repeat, I am in favour of adopting this proposal by my colleague Mihola, who will determine August 21 as an important day in the Czech Republic, because it is an important day that has changed our country. And, of course, I reject some retrospective group within the Russian Parliament trying to rewrite history. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u67	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. Is there an interest in a final word from the plaintiff? It's not like that. So I am opening up a detailed debate and it is the first Mr Jurečka to join. The President of the Fiala shall then apply with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u68	Mr President, colleagues, I have previously explained and read the proposed resolutions in detail in the general debate. So I originally put this forward as one motion for a resolution that has eight points, but after a clear proposal by Vice Prime Minister Hamáček has been made here, so that it can be voted gradually, I have no problem at all. So I am applying to these proposals here in this detailed debate. You've all been e-mailed today at 14-14 to your congressional mailboxes. So you've got it in front of you. So I don't think I have much more to add to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u69	Thank you. I'm just here for the record. I, not the Vice Prime Minister, made the proposal in the general debate in order to vote on these points individually. But that's just a formality. So, Mr. Chairman of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution, which Tomio Okamura has already read here in the general debate. Just let me have one short sentence first. The SPD, of course, criticized at a press conference that Ukraine wanted to turn bandere into war veterans, and that Stepan Bandera became a Ukrainian national hero approved by the Ukrainian Parliament about two or three years ago, and that the Czech Republic continued to cooperate with such a country. So if we co-initiate the debate in the same sense as today's point, we're ready for it. Because when we criticized it at the press conference, of course, all the media kept quiet about it. But let us go to our motion for a resolution. Let me read it again. It is a proposal from the SPD, and it reads: "The effort of some Russian politicians to grant the status of war veterans to participants in the military invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 is a disgusting attempt to legitimize the occupation. The only result can be damage to relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. 1968 was a brutal aggression and meant the occupation of Czechoslovakia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u71	Thank you. I'm asking who else is interested in the show. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for my procedural proposal, which I announced in the debate, and this is the proposal to interrupt the adoption of a resolution on the foreign committee, so that we can read the various resolutions on this point to discuss them on the foreign committee and vote on them. I have said the reason for which I propose this, and that is the complexity of the relationship that ties those international treaties not only to the Russian Federation, but also to the other States of the Union of Independent States and the four states that participated in the entry of troops at the occupation of Czechoslovakia at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u73	Thank you. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask for some peace in the hall, and I'm gonna ask you to take your seats. This is a voteable procedural proposal, which I will put to the vote immediately. [[Knocking from the benches on the left side of the hall.]] And someone's knocking. So I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you all to rejoin your I.D. cards. I will repeat, we will vote on the interruption of this point in a detailed debate until the end of this discussion on the foreign committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's the vote number 819. 170 Members are registered for 18 against 63. This procedural proposal has not been adopted. I have a few factual points here. It's probably just a push of the button, though, isn't it? Or was anyone interested in a performance with a factual remark? No, I'm doing it, great. Let's keep going, then. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Interest in the final words by the appellant? It's not. We will therefore vote on motions for resolutions. I would therefore ask the plaintiff and rapporteur in one person to take us through this vote. We'd probably vote on individual... [[This is Mrs Balcar reporting.]] To the vote? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u74	Thank you for giving me the floor. I'd just like to say that I got held up, and I got high, and I voted in favour. And I don't want to question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u75	Thank you, for the tape. Please refer to the individual points on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u76	Thank you. So I will take the liberty, as has also been proposed, in the order of the detailed debate, to choose the procedure by voting on my proposals, which we therefore take individually as eight individual motions for resolutions. And then, as a single proposal, the proposal that Radim Fiala made in the detailed debate. So if that's possible?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u77	I totally agree. I'm asking if anyone objects to this procedure. And maybe I'll choose the option of voting this procedure as a procedure, if that's okay with you. So who agrees with the procedure proposed by Mr Jurečka? Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting 820. At the moment 175 Members are registered, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u78	Thank you. So the first item in my motion for a resolution: "I. PSP of the Czech Republic is extremely concerned about the possible adoption of an amendment to the Act on Military Veterans of the Russian Federation. We fundamentally reject the proposed justification for the amendment, which states the right of troops entering the Warsaw Treaty on the territory of Czechoslovakia on 21 August 1968 in connection with the task of suppressing the so-called attempted coup d'état in Czechoslovakia."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u79	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 821. Registered 175, for 163, against one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u80	Second motion for a resolution: 'II. The PSP of the Czech Republic insists that the occupation of the Czechoslovak army of the Warsaw Treaty was a violation of international law."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u81	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 822, logged in 176, for 163, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u82	Third resolution: "III. The PSP of the Czech Republic notes that this would be a serious violation of the agreement on friendly relations and cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation from 1993."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u83	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 823, registered as 176 Members, for 164, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u84	Fourth resolution: "IV. The PSP of the Czech Republic expresses a serious concern that, following experience with the occupation of the sovereign territory of Georgia and Ukraine, it could be another attempt by the Russian Federation to legalize any similar violent act."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u85	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 824, logged in 176, for 59. [[Against 14.]] The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u86	Fifth resolution: "V. PSP of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present this issue without delay at the meeting of the competent authorities of the United Nations and to discuss it primarily with allies within NATO and the EU."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u87	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 825, logged in 177, for 39, versus 68. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u88	Resolution 6 "VI. The PSP of the Czech Republic expresses interest in political dialogue with the Russian Federation, but only on the condition that the Russian Party does not allow the questioning of the principle of international law and the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Czech Republic from 1993."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u89	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 826, registered 178, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u90	Seventh order: "VII. The PSP of the Czech Republic calls for the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic to give a joint statement expressing their disagreement with such steps that would lead to the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Act on Military Veterans. This would mean legitimizing the entry of USSR troops into Czechoslovakia in August 1968."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u91	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 827, registered 178, for 151, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u92	My last motion for a resolution: "VIII. The PSP of the Czech Republic instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Radek Vondráček to present this resolution to the President of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation Vjačeslav Volodin."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u93	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 828, registered 178, in favour of 166, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u94	And then we have a resolution that Mr Radim Fiala signed up to: "The effort of some Russian politicians to grant the status of war veterans to the military invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 is a disgusting attempt to legitimize the occupation. The only result can be damage to relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. 1968 was a brutal aggression and meant the occupation of Czechoslovakia."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-017-242.u95	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 829, logged in 176, for 142, versus 8. The motion was accepted. This has dealt with all the proposals put forward. I thank you all and end this point. We will continue according to the approved agenda item
