ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u1	146. Government bill amending Act No. 259/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws, and Act No. 92/2018 Coll., amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /house print 204/ - third reading [[9.10 hours]] I ask that Jana Maláčová take the position of the rapporteur's chair for the plaintiff of Labor and Social Affairs, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Lukáš Kolářík. The amendments are set out in the Parliamentary Press 204/2, which was delivered on 17 April 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as Parliament's press 204/3. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. And once again, I beg you to remain calm in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you that printing number 204 was originally to abolish the entire legislation of electronic incapacity approved in 2017. But that purpose is outdone today. I'm not gonna recapitulate the whole development. It is much more effective to use the original 2017 amendment and to supplement it with the press 204 to meet the requirements of employers and doctors. We have held negotiations with both stakeholders over the last six months and held a number of detailed discussions and workshops. While employers have the most accentuated the requirement for a fully functional eIncapacity optimally since 1 July of this year, doctors' representatives have wanted as simple a way as possible to introduce an electronic failure with additional time to prepare, ideally in one stage, starting on 1 January of next year. The later amendments responded...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u3	I ask you once again to remain calm so that we can proceed with dignity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u4	Thank you. The later amendments responded to the ongoing developments and were prepared following the demands of the two groups. They also took account of the amendment contained in the House press number 333. Following numerous negotiations, it turned out that the most appropriate way to introduce an eIncompetent person is to change in a single step, with effect from 1 January next year. Within this one step, the most important requirements of employers were accepted. In particular, the so-called anchoring requirement was taken into account. proactive notifications, this means that employers can ask the Czech Social Security Administration for automatic notification of temporary employment incapacity for individual employees. It was also met by the requirement of medical organisations for a simple authorization to verify the identity of treating doctors, carried out by the same means as in the health care sector. In agreement with the Ministry of Health, the legislation on the authorisation of sickness insurance authorities to use access certificates to providers of health services issued by the State Institute for Drug Control has been added. Of course, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs actively participated in all these positive changes as a competent authority and were incorporated into Mr Roman Sklenák's amendment. However, more amendments have been tabled to House Press 204. These are listed in Parliament's Press No 204/2. Since some of these amendments have the character of complex amendments, let me only support Mr Sklenák's amendment. If this amendment is accepted and approved by Mr Sklenák, it is only under these conditions that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can guarantee a fully functional eIncapacity, on 1 January 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u5	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and I am opening up a debate on this point. Mr Bauer, to whom I give the floor, is the first to enter it at this time. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, on social networks, Jana Maláčová, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, yesterday, let herself be heard that an eneschopenka person is entering the final act and that, as Members, we are to raise our hand for Mr Roman Sklenák's amendment. The Minister also opposed popular creativity and urged us, Members, not to risk uncertainty and to vote in accordance with its recommendations. I acknowledge that the Minister has a very self-contained sense of humor, but I would like to say that they are not really Members, and it is not a parliament that has a mess in the case of an incompetent person and who has put uncertainty into its introduction, to put it mildly, perhaps I would say chaos. It is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the leadership of the current Minister and along with him the entire current Government. I wouldn't want to reminisce about the incredible annabition that me and my eneschopenka girlfriend have been through. We've heard it here several times, but I'll just briefly sum up the current situation. Today, we will approve an eIncompetent in the press, which was originally to disturb it, and at the same time we still have a third reading of the law that introduced the eIncompetent for change, but we do not support it anymore. That's the House press number 333. Normally, as an opposition Member, I might welcome the Minister's efforts to admit past misconduct. This error was that the Ministry, after the previous messed-up work, pushed for the introduction of the first stage of electronic exposure to incapacity in the middle of the year, even though the project was still not ready. Perhaps under normal circumstances I could appreciate that the Minister preferred to postpone the implementation of the eInability in time so as not to risk bluffing and burden doctors, employers and especially patients with problems with the functioning of the new system. But the Ministry had enough room for such a time and material shift to be anchored in the relevant bill and sent it to the standard commentary and legislative process, as used to be the custom here in the House. However, this has not happened, and so again, at the very core of the material, we will be discussing at the last minute which amendment which government Member is or is not eligible. What is crucial, however, is what I believe, whatever version of the timing of the eIncompetent, the system will not work well even in the middle of this year, but probably at the beginning of 2020. You know, he convinced me of the course of the last meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and the course of the subsequent round table on the floor of the Committee on Health. So I could not participate in this round table, but according to the available reports, it may have been slightly overwhelming for the representatives of the ministry, because the ministry clearly failed to communicate with doctors, the professional public and the health department on this round table. Perhaps some colleagues from the Health Committee can complete their experiences here on the microphone. Even before adopting a legislative solution, it is not clear how eIncapacity will work in practice, especially in hospitals and larger health institutions. It is unclear how doctors will identify themselves, how internal systems will work in hospitals, how this process will be compensated for by doctors. It is almost unbelievable, but a few days before the approval of some of the variants of eIncompetents, proposals for pilot projects have just fallen, which should verify the practical functioning of eIncompetents. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs simply failed to prepare electronic incapacity and the government coalition continues to take doctors, citizens and employers for its hostages. The ODS has long supported electronization wherever it makes sense. But it must work well, be safe for citizens and benefit them. For these reasons, we also support the electronic display of non-workables, but we cannot agree to the introduction of chaotically and without knowledge of practice. If I am to borrow the Minister's words, e eneschopenka may be entering the last act, but its creators were unable to agree on what scenario will actually be played a few days ago. I would recommend more honest work, communication and testing before eIncompetents premiere in sharp traffic. We, as the right-wing opposition, will not support a government sklendrian, which is why we are likely to refrain from voting, with the exception of Mr Kolářík's proposal. In view of the situation, I believe that the support for this proposal will also be considered by government Members, especially those of the ANO movement, unless they want to lose face at the last minute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised a factual remark by President Kalousek. I remind everyone that at 9:30 we have a fixed point 148, so we are probably not going to finish the debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to see the Minister's speech on the networks go as much as any other unfounded insolence, but it does not bind me to Mr Bauer and say that using terms of folk creativity and chaos in this case to the legislators, when we all know that confusing creativity and chaos ruled and ruled in this matter at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that is already a chump, Madam Secretary. This is the arrogance of an official who unfortunately hasn't done his job well and is now trying to attack the legislator. You just don't do that. I dare say that as a longtime civil servant and as a politician. She knows the history of amateurs who built the ark of Noemův, and she also knows the great designers and experts who designed the Titanic. If you were doing a great job at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, I understand your arrogance, but in the chaos that reigns in your office, I would recommend a little more humility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u10	Good morning and thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member of Kalousek through the President, perhaps because you are not a member of the Committee on Social Policy, you do not have enough information, otherwise you would not be able to speak the words you have spoken. I have to stand up for the officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. On the contrary, they are trying to comply with this House and to prepare such evidence that was based on the demands of individual Members. Unfortunately, the demands of the MEPs were very often changed, and they differed, and I certainly did not envy them the role of MPSV officials. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u11	Thank you. Mr Kalousek wants to respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u12	If I were to say what you have accused me of, my colleague, through the President, I certainly would not be right. But we don't listen to each other. I wasn't talking about the officials of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. I was talking about the bureaucratic arrogance of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who runs the office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u13	There are no real remarks, and Mr Válek is in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u14	Thank you, Mr President. There's a lot of things that end. Now, in the last 14 days, two projects are ending, which are very similar. He's also with his wife for the last time. One of them is the Avengers series, it's also science fiction, and the other is an electronic disability. Both seem very similar to me. I mean, since the Avengers have more real background after all, I wasn't at the seminar and I went to the Avengers, so I'm sorry about that. But I hate being destructive. That's why I'll try not to be. I'll try to be constructive. As a Member, I have had one request in the long run concerning two parts. The first part was whether or not she was really going to be an electronic incompetence online. That means, I'll fill out an electronic disability and the next day, ideally still the employer will get it and he'll know the information: my employee is on disability. The second question I had, if really the systems of hospitals of state, private, whether the systems of rehabilitation institutions, i.e. all the workplaces where they expose themselves to disability, are set up to accept the program. I will return to the eRecipe, when eRecept tested for ten years at the Masaryk Cancer Institute, then tested for three years in different types of operations, finally voted it out and the votes of the TOP 09 Members were in a number of cases and in this case they were in favour, and yet we agreed, and I am glad that we agreed that the year will be tested without sanctions eRecept. All of this has been done and the recipe can still be displayed in writing in defined cases today and it turns out that it is absolutely necessary, and still a part of the doctors can issue the recipe in writing and still not completely resolved all situations. The electronic disability is as serious a material as eRecipe. Therefore, all of this needs to be tested extremely, extremely carefully, and there must still be an alternative solution and there still has to be an option, it doesn't matter what date the law will apply, so that for at least one year it is possible to exhibit paper disability for various reasons. I understand that the simple program used by practical doctors who use practical specialists, and today there are a number of doctors who use this program and expose them electronically unable, will not cause a major problem in these operations with these doctors. The bigger the workplace, the bigger the problem may arise. A big problem can occur in emergency rooms, there can be a big problem in hospital facilities that have their own hospital information system and do not have a commercial hospital information system and from directly managed organizations it is, I guess, nine where they developed their own hospital information system, their IT staff, source data are in some cases very difficult to trace. That is, if I've had fun in these hospitals, if I've consulted faculty hospitals, large medical facilities, in a number of hospitals they're in a situation of waiting to see what our legislation will actually look like, then they'll only be able to write a tender, they'll have to hope that someone will sign up for them in the tender. They will have to hope that those who fail to win will not appeal, and if all of this goes well, they will be able to implement eIncompetents into hospital information systems. Of course, it can run in parallel some program that will be a web application, or I don't know what. Of course, that's what any of us can imagine if he's never filled out a disability in his life unless he's ever worked in a hospital and seen and jumped from program to program, hasn't experienced skipping from internal information system to external environment, hasn't seen or experienced, and today at the time of GDPR all the more, what's the need to secure skipping between those programs. That means, I appreciate it very much, and I am not afraid to say it, even as an opposition member of the Minister's work, to create an eIncompetent. But I am extremely sorry that by trying to rush everything, by doing this in a not entirely happy way without sufficient verification of traffic, without sufficient data from sufficient amount of medical facilities, when in the first stage the Ministry focused only on practical doctors or practical specialists and passed away other places where incompetents arise, so it can happen, and I am convinced that the problem will occur, that to 1. 1. create chaos. I am very glad that the Ministry accepted that they will not have to use another card and that the card, if I have understood correctly, which we use for eRecipe, will serve for eIncompetent, and I firmly believe that the government will eventually swing and will get the situation that this card will be the identification electronic card of the paramedic with a significantly lower level of security and will simplify the certificate once every five years and not every year. [[Nesroz.]] [[9.30 hours]] I am very glad that you can use the same electronic card readers. I am very pleased that the system will perhaps be moving in the level of internal information systems and it will not be a web application for hospital facilities to jump into. But I don't believe that today, May 10th, when we're at the stage at which we have it, and we're going to continue in a way, albeit very rapid, by the force of coalition voices, we can get to the stage that to 1. 1. we will have a functioning software implemented in hospitals that will not cause trouble - and now I apologize to my colleagues - not to doctors, but mainly to patients, because electronic disability -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u15	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but it's 9:30 a.m., we've got another point firmly placed. Of course, everything will be recorded and you will be able to continue the debate when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u16	Thank you, I can hold the thought.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-001-146.u17	We'll be looking forward to it. I interrupt this point. Opening point number
