ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u1	171. Members of Martin Kupka, Ondřej Profant, Barbora Kořanová, Jiří Běhounek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying and amending and supplementing certain laws related to its implementation, as amended, Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 525/ - First reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 525/1. Please have Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Martin Kupka, present the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u2	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, once more. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this is another one of those digital laws that we are trying to reach out to you today. Even this law should make life easier for people. This is the main goal of the changes we come up with. In this case, it is also part of the broader concept of the electronicisation of the building process, so the concrete outcome of the adoption of the law should be reflected in easier and faster construction procedures in the Czech Republic. You know, unfortunately, we are among the countries that have the most complicated and slowest construction proceedings throughout the world. This is one of those steps that goes to simplify and accelerate the process. To bring it very briefly. Because many cities and municipalities today have geoportals, where a citizen can find out exactly what is behind the networks leading to his land, if he gets there gas, water, electricity and fast internet, as is the case with the zoning plan and so on. A digital technical map should ensure that this information is available throughout the Czech Republic, that it will still be up to date, that it will have both a designer, a citizen, a mayor, a businessman, a private investor, an opportunity to look at what can be built in that territory, what allows it to be connected to individual networks. That's the main point of the law. In this case, too, the law, legislation, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development itself, with the cadastral authority and, of course, with specialized initiatives, with professional companies and among those involved was the ICT Union and the Chamber of Commerce. It's a law that's discussed. And I must mention, of course, that the important part of the entire implementation of this law lies on the verge. Without cooperation with the regions, without discussing the proposal and without the involvement of officials from individual regional authorities, the law could not have been created, because in the future the Czech Republic's digital seamless technical map will be managed by the regional authorities in individual territories. So much for the very brief and fleeting effects of this law. Thank you very much for your attention and also for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u3	Thank you. I would like the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Bartoš, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u4	Once again, good afternoon, or more like evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The appellant has already presented the bill here, so I will be more brief in the report. House printing 525 changes the law on surveying and concerns digital technical maps. It introduces the obligation of regions to conduct digital technical maps of the region and specifies their form and content. The buildings and equipment of transport and technical infrastructure and selected construction, technical and natural buildings are to be maintained in them. The press is also dedicated to the voluntary management of the digital technical map of the municipality and its relations with digital technical maps of the regions. A digital map of the public administration, which will be led by the Czech Office of Landscape and Cadastral, is to become a covering national system for all digital technical maps of the regions. The press also interferes with the construction law, where it regulates the obligations of builders and administrators of transport technical infrastructure, which concerns the transmission of data necessary for the creation of a digital technical map. The Government dealt with the draft law at its meeting on 22 July 2019 and agreed with the proposal without further comment. As rapporteur, I can say that the proposed legislation aims to deepen and unify the issue of the acquisition and management of geographical information in connection with the digitization of the preparation, placement and authorisation processes of buildings. I think I will not embezzle the role of the rapporteur when I say that the introduction of digital technical maps of regions is one of the necessary steps in the digitalisation of territorial planning and building procedures as a whole. I would like to comment on what I think the submitted amendment lacks. She does not impose a legal obligation on those data contained in digital and technical maps. It does not remove the obligation to request a special legal statement during construction on the existence of networks from individual administrators. I think that we will still have the opportunity to discuss this deficiency in further readings during the negotiations. As rapporteur, I recommend that this amendment be released for second reading and, in accordance with the proposal of the Organising Committee, I recommend that the press be ordered to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as part of the Committee on Guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and with priority rights the Minister for Regional Development has signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to express my utmost support for this proposal and, of course, thank the team for the work done, and at the same time inform you that further steps are being taken in relation to this legislation, when we are negotiating the relocation of European funds to ensure digitally technical maps. We are preparing this challenge for the regions for January - February 2020 precisely following legislation. That is why I also wanted to thank you so much for the fact that it has been included in this proposal and that it is being discussed and thank you so much for your support. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-018-171.u7	It's a shame to end today when we have such an atmosphere of cooperation in the House. I ask you, someone else wants to speak in the general debate on this point. If not, I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. There was no motion to vote. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. By its decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? If that's not the case, I'm registering a check-out application that I just granted. I've already begun. [[18.50 hours]] So we're going to vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? This is vote number 203. It's logged in 104, 104, no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Another proposal to assign another committee did not fall, I ask if there is any proposal from the diaper. I don't see anyone. No further proposals have been made and I am ending the first reading of this proposal and thank you all. We've got ten minutes. Opening point
