ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended / House print 369/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. I have the appropriate mandate from the government to change the petitioner from Minister Nováková. Mr Nacher, as rapporteur, is already in the rapporteur's seat, so I can give the floor to the Minister of Justice. I shall do so when there is sufficient peace in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are discussing a subject other than consumer protection, please in the foyer. Just a minute. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Members of Parliament, may I present to you, on behalf of the Minister of Industry and Trade, Marta Nováková, the proposal for an amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, which is basically a relatively simple, concise, specifically an eight-point amendment to this law, and the aim of this proposal is to adapt the Czech law to the EU regulation of 28 February 2018 on the solution of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination based on nationality, place of residence or place of establishment of customers within the internal market. This is therefore an adjustment that follows a directly applicable EU regulation and is related to geoblocking, or geographical blocking, as a discriminatory practice that can restrict the rights of EU citizens, customers, especially consumers when accessing goods across borders. This is typically a situation where the goods are located in one State and the goods concerned in another State and intend to purchase such goods. These are specifically cases where there are therefore no objective justified reasons to prevent such sales, including, for example, issues of blocking access to foreign websites, through which goods can be offered. This strengthens the rights of consumers with cross-border access to their goods, i.e. goods they are interested in, and the proposed regulation immediately builds on them. At the same time, I can add that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has already produced a document last year called the Geoblocking Regulation on Questions and Answers, which is then available on the Ministry's website and provides specific questions, respectively. the answers to the questions which may concern this Regulation. In particular, the content of the amendment is the establishment of competences for the supervision of compliance with the European Regulation. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority will be the competent body of the Czech Republic, which will ensure that there is no unauthorized geographical blocking, while customers will also be able to contact the European Consumer Centre of the Czech Republic with their rights during the Czech Trade Inspection. The proposal presented represents a minimalist implementation of EU law. So it doesn't contain anything extra that doesn't relate to the adaptation. In addition to the supervisory questions already mentioned, it shall also include an adjustment of penalties for any breach of the geographical blocking ban. The government discussed and approved the proposal for this amendment on 7 January this year. It is now on the agenda for the first reading and, given the simplicity of this legislation, the government has also asked the Chamber of Deputies to agree to the bill at first reading. Given that this is an adjustment that is really intended to help protect consumers, that is, Czech citizens too, I beg the support of this proposal, which is otherwise uncontroversial, and therefore its approval at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek and ask the rapporteur to present his intelligence report. My colleague Patrik Nacher is ready. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As has already been said, it's been here since January 7th. If you always remember, the press ended just before this point, which means it's a little bad luck that we're discussing it today, but there was always some complicated press before that, then it ended, it was 19 hours, and we didn't get to it. As has been said, the aim of the regulation is to ensure that consumers who want to purchase goods and services in another EU country, whether online or personally, are not discriminated against. This proposed law has the character of adaptation and actually follows up on the amended directive of the European Parliament, so-called. the Services Directive. Unfortunately, when purchasing goods or services abroad today, customers still encounter various rejections and different trading conditions. However, the regulation does not in fact bring substantial changes to the Services Directive as regards existing obligations or prohibitions only defines specific situations where there is no objective reason to refuse the sale of goods and services. [[15.40 hours]] I would like to give a little attention to the fact that the regulation obliges Member States to lay down three things: First, the body (s) responsible for the adequate and effective enforcement of this Regulation, which is important. And there are four possibilities. I'm telling you this here for the sake of clarity, so we can get a sense of it. The first is not accepting any modifications. The second is the extension of the supervisory powers of existing supervisory authorities in the area of non-discrimination, and the third is the creation of a new supervisory authority. As you can see from this list, logically the decision has been made on two, that is to say, extending the supervisory powers of existing supervisory authorities, which is in this case ČOI and ERO - Energy Regulatory Office. Secondly, the Regulation obliges Member States to lay down rules on the imposition of measures for infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and to ensure that they are implemented. Thirdly, it obliges the body or bodies responsible for providing practical assistance to consumers in the event of a dispute between the consumer and the trader. And there are four options again this time: either not to trust the provision of assistance, this information service to anyone, or to entrust it to single contact points, or to entrust it to the European Consumer Centre, or to create a new body again. So that's where the decision was made to entrust it to the European Consumer Center. In other words, here you can see that it's obviously going after some logic, it's not creating new organs or it's not completely resigning. So I'd like to ask if we could discuss it this way under Section 90, as was said. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a debate to which I see Mr Vojtěch Munzar's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the news report. When I studied this proposal, I - and I am mostly critical, but in this case I have to thank you for not taking the path of creating a new body and not using the existing capacity. I might argue a little bit with what is written in the explanatory statement, that's RIA, that it will have no cost, these activities. So we can talk about how much the state measures the efficiency of its own activities, when new activities actually consider that they are free, that they will not have a new burden on the state budget. But these are all the things I wanted to discuss on the committees. Since this is proposed in Section 90, I would like to ask the Minister why they chose this form, why it was Section 90. Because Section 90 is something special to me and something that needs to be done quickly for some reasons of time, some threat or something like that. We are here the House of Law, the Government under the Constitution is responsible for its activities to the Chamber of Deputies, and I think it is fundamentally wrong if the ministries agree between themselves to submit something without conflict, the government will approve it and this is how it will be thrown into the House, quickly approve it in accordance with Section 90, because the Ministry has agreed. I think our role as the Chamber of Deputies is much more important. We should really judge those laws for which we are voting, talk about them in committees and not let the government speed up the legislative process, because maybe not in this case, but in other cases, and we had it here several times, that Section 90 means that there is something added that the government wants to discuss this quickly for some reason, which we do not like because it humiliates the position of the Chamber of Deputies. In principle, I do not like the section 90 and I want to ask why it is designed in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u7	Yes, Minister Kněžínek is going to answer now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u8	Thank you so much for that question. Of course, the possibility of approving the bill at first reading is really extraordinary. After all, it is the right of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this proposal this way, not its duty. And, of course, the Chamber of Deputies always logically evaluates the content of the proposal. I am only historically, and of course, even though I would look at a commentary on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies or the historical cases where the paragraph was used, he is heading - or was intended precisely to implement EU law, where it is a minimalist transposition and it is a proposal that is brief. In my opinion, all these conditions are met in this case. Of course, you can argue that the proposal could have been submitted earlier. I'm the one who's admitting to this place. Yes, it could have happened. After all, implementation deadlines, respectively. the adaptation took place in December last year. However, in the defence of this procedure, I can rightly state that, to date, only seven EU Member States have adapted the legislation. And that is because Member States have been given a relatively short time to do so. This means, here I dare say, that it is not entirely lax on the part of the petitioner, but it is simply given by a short time, which has been established and which, in my opinion, partially justifies the use of the extraordinary procedure under Section 90. At the same time, I will note that the Czech Republic during negotiations - I have checked it out today at the Ministry of Industry and Trade - really pushed for a longer implementation period. However, in the framework of the discussions between the Commission and the European Parliament, it was decided that the implementation period would indeed be this short. And I suppose one of the things that has been taken into account is that the implementation can actually be quite brief, as we have chosen to have in the Czech Republic after all. And then there was the issue of the impact on the state budget. So, of course, by not creating any new office or new entity and using existing capacities, the effects are at least lower from the nature of the matter, always. The current proposal assumes that, in the context of some reorganisation of work within state institutions, such measures will simply be implemented so that there will be no requirements for personnel reinforcement, and therefore those effects should indeed be budgetaryly neutral. So much to explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u9	Thank you, Minister. Mr Munzar once again in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u10	Then I'll start from the end. I thank the Minister for explaining the impact on the state budget. I take it, therefore, that the work of the existing institutions will become more effective, because they will carry out more activities for the same amount of money, if I can translate this in this way, and will not, therefore, ask for additional funds from taxpayers to operate in the next budget period. So I take it this way and thank you for the lighting. However, I still have a reservation in Section 90. I see. The deadline expired in December. The question is whether it should have been given earlier. You said only seven countries implemented this. On the other hand, I think that this Section 90 really is intended to serve extremely for us as the Chamber of Deputies. And it becomes repeated by the rule of this government and the previous, that it makes proposals according to Section 90 because some term has expired or the term is on fire. This really degrades our work as Members who are responsible for voting on these laws to study them to find out all the matters. I understand that this amendment is brief, simple. However, in principle we get to the roundabout § 90. Today, I think it's designed for seven or eight points of Section 90 and it's torn apart with a bag, which I would warn about. And it is the protection of our esteemed colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u11	Thank you, my colleague. The rapporteur Patrik Nacher is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u12	I would still like to respond to my colleague Munzar that this section 90 is not used often just to speed things up. But I'm going to give you two specific examples of when I was there when it was just used to make it a pretty complicated standard and not get any other things. It wasn't contaminated by anything else. Let me give you an example. It was the very first standard I had with my colleague from KDU-ČSL, where we changed five words in the Labour Code. But the moment we opened the labor code, there'd be a hundred changelings. In the end, the 90s didn't pass, but back then, it was on the gentlemen's agreement of the clubs. In other words, sometimes it's really that the 90's are used to make it go both quickly, but to actually take the essence and not spread a law. But there are more such examples. I can give, like, I don't know, the sales time bill, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-002-010.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have no written application for a debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene? He's not reporting. I can therefore end the debate. I'm asking the final words - Minister? [[No.]] The rapporteur? [[No.]] Also, no final word. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the examination of this proposal in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 90 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2. I shall make a motion for a resolution. First, I will engage because I have asked my colleagues and colleagues to hold discussions in the lobby so that everyone can come up with who is interested in the vote. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 369 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' We're going to vote 31, which I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's the 31st vote. Of the 179, for 98, against 26. The motion was accepted. Then we can continue. I am opening a detailed debate in which I have no written application. I note that amendments or other proposals cannot be tabled in a detailed debate, it is only possible to propose a correction of the date of effectiveness in the draft law and its legislative technical, grammatical, written or printing errors. So, I don't see anybody in the debate in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: No.]] It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, according to the Chamber of Press 369'. I started voting number 32. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's vote number 32. From the present 180, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to Minister Kněžínek, thank you to the rapporteur and I conclude this point. We will continue with the next point in our negotiations, and it is
