ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Fund for Housing Development and on the Amendment of Act No. 171/1991 Coll., on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the matter of transfers of state property to other persons and on the Fund of National Property of the Czech Republic, as amended, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 412 - first reading On behalf of the Government, Klára Dostálová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. Well, you have the floor again, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u2	Thank you. Then I'll see you a few more times. So thank you again so much for the floor. This time I submit an amendment to the Act on the State Housing Development Fund. The main objective of the proposal is to extend the scope of the existing housing development fund to other activities related to the promotion of regional development and which are within the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development. What led us to this is that, of course, as a state, we must prepare for a period when the European Union's resources are going to decline and we must prepare an alternative to potential EU resources. Therefore, we are actually trying to extend it to the State Investment Support Fund by the proposed change and the name of the State Housing Development Fund; This law would actually correspond to new content. To this end, it is proposed, in particular, that the future State Investment Support Fund should provide new subsidies and loans, for example, for the cooperative share associated with the right to rent, de facto for the acquisition of cooperative housing, it is a big topic of today, not only rental housing, but also support for cooperative housing; further, the extension of the removal of building barriers in public areas; the acquisition of technical equipment for municipalities with a low budget or voluntary associations of municipalities intended for the maintenance of public spaces; the acquisition of equipment for selected buildings owned by regions and municipalities, such as building-related technical equipment to ensure barrier-free access to and free movement in municipal buildings; the construction or renewal of public transport infrastructure and related facilities of public technical infrastructure, civil equipment, such as buildings and facilities for education, education, social services and family care; Furthermore, of course, constructions for the provision of services in the public interest, such as stone or mobile stores, reconstruction and construction of medical facilities; Further revitalization of the territory including project preparation, demolition or reconstruction of buildings, regional development, promotion of tourism and others. Other matters include the processing of land planning documentation, in particular territorial plans or regulatory plans or land planning documents, etc. With the introduction of new grant and credit titles, the wording and terminology of some existing grant and credit titles can be improved. The adjustment of the Fund's focus is also reflected in the extension of the list of costs that can be covered by the State Investment Support Fund. In particular, these will be the costs associated with support for tourism, sustainable development of municipalities, cities and regions. Furthermore, it is proposed in the proposed draft law to supplement the Act on the explicit authorisation of the State Investment Support Fund to process personal data, to allow the State Fund free remote access to real estate register data, to allow the State Fund to use data from public information systems, namely from the basic population register under the Basic Register Act and from the information system for the registration of residents and from the information system for the registration of foreigners under the Act on the registration of residents. [[15.20 hours]] A cumulative limit of five per cent is now introduced by analogy to the budgetary rules, to which transfers between the appropriations under the Fund may be carried out by the Fund Committee on a proposal from the Director. This is, of course, particularly relevant for housing construction, where we will really need every free source of the state fund for these projects. The legislation continues to provide for the maintenance of the practice of adjusting individual specific subsidy programmes or credit programmes at the level of the Government Implementing Regulation. In this context, the basic conditions must be laid down, which must be laid down by the Government for the purposes of using the funds of the State Investment Support Fund. The conditions vary according to the type of aid, i.e. whether it is a loan, grant or guarantee, and possibly also a loan interest subsidy. The draft law submitted now partially sets out the procedure of the State Fund for the provision of funds. The law regulates existing practice, when the programme is launched without a call from the date of entry into force of the new government regulation or on the basis of a call for individual actions, after the government's regulation is effective. Furthermore, it is proposed to lay down the minimum requirements of the contract for the provision of funds in the law. The proposed legislation explicitly lays down the State Fund's control authority in connection with the provision and use of funds by the State Investment Support Fund. As part of the proposed bill, there are some terminology changes, especially in connection with the adoption of the new Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act. Once again, I dare to ask for the support of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u3	And I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Madam Secretary, allow me, as rapporteur, to follow up on the presentation of the press by his promoter, who represents the Minister for Regional Development here, Klára Dostálová. I would therefore like to report to the press 412. It is a government bill amending Act 211/2000 Coll., on the State Fund for Housing Development and amending Act No. 171/1991 Coll., on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Czech Republic in matters of transfer of state property to other persons and on the Fund for National Property of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws. As the Minister said here, the proposed proposal changes the State Housing Support Fund to the State Investment Support Fund. In the first place, the amendment includes a change to the name of the law itself. Instead of the Act on the State Housing Development Fund, it is the Act on the State Investment Support Fund. In fact, the State Housing Development Fund is disappearing and the exclusive housing support in the Czech Republic is disappearing, as the purpose of this law will also change. Instead of promoting housing, the new objective of this transformed state fund will be to promote sustainable development of municipalities, cities and regions, housing and tourism. As part of the change in the purpose of the law, the subsidy is then extended to acquire a cooperative share of the housing cooperative if its beneficiary becomes the tenant of the apartment concerned by the acquisition of the cooperative share. The possibility of money for investments in the development of municipalities will also be extended. The possibility of moving between the budget appropriations of the Fund is also introduced if they do not exceed 5% of the total expenditure per calendar year. To date, this competence has been exercised by the competent House Committee. The Act also lists the minimum conditions to be laid down for the use of funds from the Fund and addresses the institute of the call for a grant, loan or guarantee application. It also contains a list of the requirements of the aid applications, the minimum requirements of the grant contract and does not forget the obligation to give written reasons why no contract has been concluded. It also includes the right to carry out checks on the accuracy of the data and compliance with the conditions for the provision and drawing of funds under the Financial Control Act. In my opinion, however, the reason report is not entirely convincing, it does not demonstrate the need for the proposed change. In the submitted government proposal, there is a discrepancy in several places with what is stated in the explanatory memorandum. I'd just like to score a few points that we thought were important. In the first part of Article 1, point 1.2, we note, among other things, that the original name of the SFRB does not change in the government's regulations still in force. For reasons of legal certainty, a transitional provision is also included in the draft law, from which it should be clear that it is only a change of the name of the law, respectively. the fund and that it will continue to be the same legal person. However, the draft law does not contain this transitional provision. Amendment in § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) and (j) newly introduces the possibility of granting a subsidy or loan for the acquisition of technical equipment intended for the maintenance of public spaces and for the acquisition of equipment in buildings owned by regions and municipalities. The explanatory memorandum states that this option should be for low budget municipalities. However, the amendment does not provide any criteria for granting the subsidy, credit and the criterion for the municipality's budget. Amendment in § 3 para. 4 then states that activities related to the function of the Fund may be entrusted to another legal person, with the exception being subsidy providers according to those provisions. However, the explanatory memorandum does not once again state that the activities which constitute the exercise of public authority cannot be entrusted to another person, in particular the decision to grant the aid itself or to financial control. From the point of view of legal certainty, this should be stated explicitly in the law, because it is not directly apparent from the text. Reasonable report on the provision of § 4 para. 5 notes, inter alia, that free access to the real estate register is also necessary to ensure effective recovery of claims. However, the amendment refers only to access for the purpose of verifying the data provided by the applicant. From the point of view of legal certainty, it would be more appropriate to add the provision for this second purpose again when it is to a certain extent an intervention in the right to privacy of the persons concerned. In Article 9, in the proposed text, paragraph 9 is replaced by the following: The basic conditions for the use of funds in the case of credit or subsidy are set out in paragraphs 2 and 4. The explanatory memorandum states that, in the case of a combination of aid, all conditions must be met simultaneously but not provided several times with the same information. However, this rule does not result from the proposed wording. There is no reason why such a provision should be interpreted. This should probably also be explicitly enshrined in the proposal. In accordance with Article 9 (2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Rather, the linguistic aspect here - about 30 days refers only to the challenge, or according to the first sentence of the paragraph there is something else call for application and receipt of the request. The deadline does not apply from a purely linguistic point of view to receiving an application, although it is certainly meant to apply to both. It is therefore appropriate to rephrase this sentence in some way, in order to make it clearer and thus not allow for double interpretation. So much news report on the government bill amending the Act on the State Housing Development Fund from the perspective of me as rapporteur. We will probably deal with the political arguments on this press in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u5	I am opening a general debate in which I have three Members. So I will ask for Mrs Richterová's speech, and then Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared, and I still have Mr Dominik Feri. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak a little more sharply than I may be used to, namely, the housing development fund was really the only major national tool to support this basic human need - to live by today. That's something every person needs. In this fund, the privatization money was strictly committed to housing. They were safe from some dissolution on - and now imagine what you hate most about our money transfers - like golf courses, lookout towers in the valley, we can do great, or various shiny brochures with various information and even short-breath information centres instead of real support for municipal construction. It is not even actively pretending that the Housing Act is actually being prepared so that this House can approve it. After huge discussions in recent years on how a key role can be played in the promotion of housing in cooperation with municipalities, I really consider this to be absolutely trivial. Basically, it's kind of an open resignation of our government to solve the most pressing problem for those who don't have a long-term lease or who don't have their own housing. Those people are getting bigger and bigger. The transformation from the housing fund to the investment fund is nothing petty, it's not just a little thing. It's a big deal. The news report has already said how it could really go from the purpose binding to a number of other ways to invest money. And also, and it didn't quite sound like that, the effect of the Ministry for Regional Development is substantially strengthened by the transformation. Basically, this fund becomes another department of this department. The cast of the managing authority will change, for example, with the management, as proposed, missing representatives of ministries important to regions such as transport, or precisely in view of the social dimension of housing in the proposal, there is still no need for co-decision with representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But, as well as a proposal for the power to move a certain percentage of the total budget expenditure on the basis of the Fund's management decision, it is something that strengthens de facto the role of the Ministry again. At present, such transfers are approved by the competent House Committee, or there is an element of the House's control function. Let me recap. We fundamentally disagree with the proposal as pirát, as those who deal with housing as one of the country's absolute priorities, and we believe that the arguments put forward are strong enough for you to consider such a change and its failure to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u7	Now I'll read two apologies. First, Mr Jan Hrnčíř apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work and then Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from 18 to 19 a.m. for reasons of work. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec has another word and Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I may not be so strictly refusing, but of course I also have a number of questions that would interest me in the establishment of an investment support fund. The first thing that interests me is the transformation of the State Housing Development Fund. Why is it a transformation? Why is it not the demise of this fund and the emergence of a new organization, to say the least, a new company? Because this activity is going to be a little different, and I think that it would be pure to complete the operation of the State Housing Development Fund, to end the company, to abolish the institution by law and by new law to set up a State Investment Support Fund if we agree here that we need such a State Investment Support Fund. Of course, it is an organization that will provide grant titles, loans. And I remember when the State Housing Development Fund was being created, so at that time it was also because there was money being deposited, which passed from year to year as each fund, that it was not the end of the season. The resistance of civil democrats to various funds is widely known. We think that the state should handle these things directly, but of course we understand the situation, that's how it is set, but on the other hand, it needs to be treated very carefully. I remember the time when the State Housing Development Fund really flew between, I would say, municipalities and cities, because we used the products that were there. I would say that the time has stalled, that today the meaning is not the same as it used to be years ago, and I understand that there is a need to do something about the fund, because the way it works so far, I think it is a long-term unsustainable thing. Of course, I said it was about subsidies, loans. When I hear the word "subsidisation," I'm just going to make it quicker, because the best thing would be for applicants - municipalities and cities - to receive money directly in the budgetary determination of taxes, which would have to change, of course. And if they receive them through this fund, or directly applicants, but the municipality will guarantee themselves, as it has always been, I don't know what experience you have with the fund, I have the ones that we borrowed for citizens to reconstruct housing units, housing houses, and always the municipality had to guarantee its budget. And we even gave each other guarantees, like different stores and the like, so that we could keep our promise to those citizens who showed interest, but worst of all, it was reflected in our debt service, and the city didn't actually owe anything, except that it took over the debts of the applicants who borrowed from the state. Well, I think there's got to be a way out of this. I would recommend this bill to proceed to second reading and discuss it in the committees, because we can always condemn it, this attempt, such as unsuccessful, but I think we should focus on the committees where it will go, because it really will not be that simple. I wouldn't overestimate the influence of the Ministry of Regional Development. Who other than the proper departments, the ministry, is supposed to have an influence in the area? That may be the point of discussing the committees, as is the point. On the other hand, I want to ask: How will money be provided for this fund? We live in a time when the economy is slowing down, when the pace is cooling down, and we see sometimes desperate attempts that maybe journalists are adjusting in their own image, that the Ministry of Finance is simply looking for other sources of money, whether they are different forms of further taxation, sector taxes and the like, which we reject, and on the other hand, we say that we are going to set up a fund here, where money goes into investment. By the way, I'm interested in the idea that they're gonna be able to support the stores, the business, the village stores. I was talking about it here in relation to the EET, when I was actually saying that socialism has won again here, that the old motto about what is moving, let's just tax it nicely, and what is not moving, let's donate again, so here it comes 100% into practice. I really have a serious problem with this. I understand that certain housing support given the situation that is in the Czech Republic today, although it is completely different in Prague and in major cities than it is in the countryside, maybe in the mountains, but the situation here is, I understand, so I would like to know what money will flow into this fund. If it's regular money, every year some share of the state budget, because without money, it's not worth creating such an institution, let's face it. Then I would also like to know, because the office will do completely different activities, although it is similar, subsidies as subsidies, someone will ask, but whether the fund will be equipped with a staff, materially, building, if the one where the fund is based today is enough, if all of this is enough, and if we are not actually creating additional costs for the state here just because we want to redistribute more money that we may not even know how many we have and where they are at the moment. So I see a lot of "but." But for me, the old State Housing Development Fund would really be better off as if it were to reach and end the operation of this institution in order to create a new fund - the State Investment Support Fund. By the way, it's not the first time we've heard it here, Madam Secretary declared it at the beginning of her political career at the Ministry, so here she is actually fulfilling what she promised us here. And now the question is whether this promise, as it presents it to us, is what we want to relate to. I have a lot of things there, but I don't think the intention can be self-savvy, that it doesn't solve all the problems we have in the Republic, but I think the basis of our actions is whether the state will have the money to do it at all, so that we don't announce something here that will actually be useless in practice. Finally, it turned out that some housing development fund programmes were not as effective in practice as expected. And here I would rather expect a bigger discussion just in the first place of the implementation of the fund and after all that we really want to finance from it, what we want to support, how we want to lend to these people and what we want to lend them or what we want to provide them with the money as subsidies. [[15.40 hours]] It's a lot of questions. I even think that promoting investment is a very strange word. We're saying that investment shouldn't really be supported, that we're more of an incentive system, and that investment should be something that just seems to make use of the money and come back. However, I understand that living in that resort can be difficult. On the other hand, to say that the state deals with housing for people and the right to live here, I would be very careful. I think anyone who gets any real estate has to distinguish between two phases. That one is an investment in the property, and then how the investment will actually manage how the investment will be used. And concern for property is so many times more expensive than your own investment. So I'd be very careful here. It's just people who want to have their own housing, they have to invest their own capital in it, their own art of moving in that company, earning that money, because if it's worth paying for it, it's not gonna end well. So in conclusion, allow me to repeat my comments here. So now that we're in those grant titles and loans, I say with a lot of self-denial, let's put it into the next reading, let's talk about how it should work. But what I'm interested in is resources, and not that it's going to be different every year, but it should be a certain share of the state budget, and what we really want to do about what we want to do, and so that society knows, individual members, that nothing is free, and even for subsidies, somebody has to make money. And for me, it's a big problem that somebody else is making money from the subsidies that they're using up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u9	I have here one point of fact - Mr Jiří Dolejš. Only one so far. And if there is no next, then Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared for the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u10	Thank you. My point is that the debate is losing its grip, because if you look at the presentation of the transformation of the state fund, I certainly don't see it as fulfilling the government's objective to focus public investment in one place in its programming declaration. This is only about investments that are in the competence of the MMR. And maybe my colleague Richterová was a little right when she expressed concern that the objective of housing support should not be drowned with the same amount of money for the other investments, which means regional. But, for God's sake, let's not be scared that somebody's melting subsidies when we have clear, up-to-date grant programs that should even target where really needed help for the municipalities, and that's affordable housing rent. If the fund was popular after 2000, it was because these grant titles dominated it. The municipalities, and not only the municipalities, liked them very much. And the effect was lost at a time when the money went down, where the money was revolved there, and when financial instruments were offered, which, frankly, they didn't have the attractiveness, because simply the situation on the capital market was like this. So strategically for the future is the question of getting there much more money and keeping it targeting, such as the program Construction, so that municipalities can ask for these subsidies, so that the subsidies are actually directed towards the promotion of affordable rental housing. The two billion that are in the fund is a ridiculous amount when you realize that, for example, the capital of Prague has a special fund for these purposes and there is even more money than in this entire state fund. Those public investment funds still exist. The biggest bumblebee is the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So let's not talk about anything else. Rather, in the next debate, I would like to hear how the amount will increase more significantly, because for that billion you will actually build very little of it in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u11	Thank you for your time and now, with a factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. So far, I've only got one de facto. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, that is why I have said this here. Then why are we changing the name? Like, it's just that the portfolio of the services, the grant titles and the loans are expanding here. It's just an explanation. Otherwise, of course, we could say that we're going to send more money into this fund, we're going to adjust the programmes so that they can regain the attractiveness of the municipalities and the citizens of our communities and cities, and that would be done. But this is actually a completely different institution. That's what needs to be said. And that's why I'm saying these concerns here, and I'm saying that we just need to talk about it, if that's what we want or don't want. That's all this is about right now. But it's not just about living. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u13	And now we will return to the general debate. Mr. Dominik Feri has the floor. Mrs Olga Richterová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to raise one more question, which my colleague Richterová has already put forward through the President, namely the organisational composition of the fund. This is regulated in Section 6 of the proposal in question. There, it significantly interferes with at least some independence, or extra-partyness, the unpoliticality of the fund, when the current structure changes, when the fund committee is seven-members, three representatives are Parliamentary of ministries - finance, industry and the Ministry of Regional Development - and the remaining members are independent experts. And I'm curious, why is the parity between ministries here and the predominance of independent experts disturbed and tilted for the benefit of not only ministries themselves, but the Ministry of Regional Development, which would currently have a majority of four of the seven members of the committee? For this change, there is no compelling argument raised in the special part of the explanatory memorandum, no reason why this should happen. I would like the Minister to build this place for sure and in some way defend it politically, because that is something that we simply cannot ever support. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u15	Next to the general debate, Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor, Madame. And Mr Stanislav Juránek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to make a brief point that if we sum up the numbers that have already been argued here, we're pretty much in agreement. If this can be summed up, we have roughly CZK 6 billion in the State Housing Development Fund. In fact, this year the planned expenditure for the Construction programme should be around the billion, in the next year two to three billion again for the Construction programme, or at most we have three billion crowns left - and tourism should be encouraged. I guess we all know that this isn't desperately enough to live as such. Therefore, even after carefully listening to my previous speakers, I would like to make a motion to reject this bill for the Pirates Club, or, if the motion for refusal had not been passed, a proposal for a 20-day extension of the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u17	I'll make a note of it. You're filing a motion to dismiss, and in case the motion to dismiss fails, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u18	So a proposal for a 20-day extension of the deadline. To extend the deadline by 20 days. [[President: To discuss?]] Yes. Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u19	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Stanislav Juránek for a general debate. Last one so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u20	Mr President, colleagues, Madam Secretary, I would like to stand up for the Minister on one side, on the ground that the investments that I have understood in this bill are investments related to housing. The name is unfortunate, of course. I agree with my colleague Adamec through the President. And maybe it would be useful if it was made clear that it would be investments related to it. But it's hard to explain. I'm going to explain why I'm defending this thing, and that's the thing that I had the opportunity to build over a thousand flats within a city area in Brno, but I'm going to say it specifically in Židenice, and it turns out that the investments from one side helped us to build the apartments, but they didn't help us solve the infrastructure that was around it anymore. [[15.50 hours]] That means if we talk about being somewhere in the cities and those cities are going to build apartments, that we need to make a new parking lot, often a completely new transport approach, this is the way in the right direction. However, I will say that this has one fundamental question for me, and it is indeed a matter that we should say to ourselves that this makes sense to expand the housing development fund, in this way to those other investments only if there are enough funds. Here I dare say that we can count on the impact of this, and specifically, if we think about it and take the important part of the city in Prague as an example, and this is South Town, we can model how much we are able to support housing, including infrastructure. And then I'm going to say that what we were planning at this point, and we're talking about right now that there's, like, three billion left over, so right now, I'm going to say, at least twice as much. This means that the purpose of establishing is if money really increases for these purposes, because otherwise we will not completely build it. However, I will come back again to the fact that it is not enough to currently build apartments, that infrastructure must also be created to do so. And what's going on there are problems that happen in new housing estates, where there's no kindergarten, where there's no business - and here I wouldn't take it as a business issue, but that there'll be a space there, and there'll be a tender for it. In this spirit of living, I see it in a complex way, I see it in a positive way. But what it is that we are building affordable housing is - once again - the question of resources. And if a fund is to be created, it should have regular, clear resources, and I will say, a clear income from the state budget. I myself would prefer, in the context of subsidiarity, that it be the special-purpose money that goes into the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities, but here I consider it important that we talk about this. For the KDU-ČSL club, I say that we want this matter to be discussed here, because housing is a very important matter, and that we really consider the legitimacy of this fund at second reading. This is support for us and I take it as a very important debate on this issue, because housing as such cannot be pulled away from infrastructure, and at the same time it must be said that in order to help, we need some money. This means that our support will then also be given if we manage to find resources that will ensure that this fund makes sense in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u21	This has been the last application for a general debate so far. I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is interested. I don't see anyone... Interested? For the general debate, Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to repeat my questions. So if there's a regular income for this fund in the future, that's one thing. The second thing is how many extra officials it will be and whether we are materially prepared for it and whether it was better to let the housing development fund arrive and set up a new investment support fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u23	There's just one more point in fact. Member Jiří Bláha. Please. Your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u24	Serious colleagues, colleagues, I am in favour, yes. Let's make an amendment to the State Development Fund Act, but let's think about it. The state can't manage assets in the long run - it can't manage assets in the long run. He can't manage money, and he's never gonna be able to. It's a simple matter for me. Yes, a colleague here from the hospital is gossiping over his head again, but that never surprises me. The matter is very simple, and this - let us support the construction of flats, companies. This means that every employer nowadays appreciates their employees and likes to invest in their housing at a time when it will be supported by the state. And he'll save on it. And what's it gonna save the state? It will save it from having to take care of these assets, save it from having to invest the entire amount of money, and especially in the future it will commit - in the long term - the sustainability of companies, and thus employment in individual municipalities, cities, regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u25	Your performance has torn down a number of factual points. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, First of all, Mr Ivan Adamec, in fact, will prepare Mr Stanislav Juránek, Mr Dominik Feri will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u26	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I thought this was a government proposal here and that the government Members were aware of what they wanted to achieve, what they were proposing here. I guess I was wrong. There's another time, obviously, because government MPs are criticizing the government program, criticizing their ministry's work, and - oh, my God - they're criticizing their own minister! [[He's raising his voice.]] Well, where do we live? Probably in modern times! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u27	Another with a factual remark by Mr Stanislav Juránek. And Mr Veselý - would you like to go into fact or general? [[Member Veselý off the microphone: into the general.]] In general, okay. Now the final de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u28	I would like to address my colleague Bláha in your factual way, and I would like to say to him: Yes, here is a great tradition, for example, of Baťův's apartments, which also dealt with social problems. However, I dare say that companies are currently able to address housing for their employees, and that is a good thing and that must be supported, but, on the other hand, they are not able to create exactly room for social and even available housing. And in view of this, municipalities need to put in, they have it in their portfolio, and they should also take care of this available housing within their budgets. And for another, then we need to always realize who has what task, because even developers are certainly able to arrange great housing for those who have it, but here we need to satisfy all groups. So let me say - the companies will solve this only when it comes to their own employees, and this is what Baťa has done, and I am very happy to appreciate it, but on the other hand, we have to solve the complete housing and gaps that we currently have in the housing market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u29	Now I'm going to read one apology. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 15.45 hours to the end of the day for working reasons - wait just, Mr Pekar, because before you he was registered for the actual... [[Happy]] So Mr. Bláha, two minutes, and then Mr. Volný is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly did not criticise our colleague's proposal, because I spoke to a colleague, the Minister, who I very much appreciate. And we've talked about it a couple of times, and I think that's just the space for us to all be talking about it here. And otherwise, it's simple. If we give the companies a condition and we tell them "for three apartments you'll build one social apartment and we'll contribute to it all" and we'll involve the community, so we'll solve the social housing. And it's simple again. The administration of the house will then be guaranteed, because the entrepreneur will ensure that there is order, that everyone lives as they should, and that the entrepreneur will also be able to influence people who may not work or work because he invites them to his company to work there. There's more connectivity. These people won't be living together with other social people - and I really don't think that's the only rescue. They should follow these steps. Yes, let's do a part of the apartments that will be municipal, but believe that municipal apartments will always have trouble managing them, because go to individual state or cities managing organizations such as technical services, and sometimes you'll have reason to stand by how it works, those things. Indeed, when it belongs to someone, they behave completely differently and have completely different financial claims, other costs and other order. Try to think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u31	Now, Mr Jan Volný, so far the last de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to answer Mr. Adamc here, he's here. Well, it's a new age, Mr. Colleague. A new era! And thank God the voters see it and respond accordingly. But I mean to protect my colleague here from our club. I didn't see any criticism of the Minister. He came up with a new, different version, and I have to say, this time compliment him that she wasn't exactly that stupid. It's not included in this law, but it wasn't that stupid, and I think that way might be like that someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u33	Thank you. Now with a point of fact - two more facts have now come to my attention - Mr Dominik Feri and Mr Adamec will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u34	Thank you for the floor. Through the President towards colleague Bláh. When you started your speech, I thought when you said the state couldn't manage property: hey, come sit with us, that sounds reasonable. But then it went back to the subsidies to entrepreneurs, and I thought you were sitting right. [[Laughter from the right.]] But I just wanted to... I don't know, your colleague here, through the President, said that your ideas were stupid, and this one wasn't a bad one, so you've got to figure it out, you know. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u35	And one final point of fact, Mr Adamec, at the moment - I have an application. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u36	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, it may not take me two minutes to calm you all down. I understand, of course, Mr Volný, that he protects his ANO fellow Member here in plenary, but I must say that I have listened carefully, and it really, really cannot be better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u37	Thank you, too. Good afternoon. At this point, I have no factual remarks or applications for debate... Mr. Veselý-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry-Merry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I only ask for a 20-minute break for the ČSSD after the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u39	Twenty minutes. Okay, thank you. So I would like to ask before ending the general debate if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If this is not the case, I will conclude the general debate and, at the request of the ČSSD Club, I will declare a 20-minute break, which means 16.22 hours. Then we will meet again here to discuss this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 1622 hours, i.e. the time for the ČSSD club's meeting has elapsed. Before I invite their deputies to the counter, I have a note for you. Mr Klaus apologizes to us between 16.30 and 19.00 for working reasons for the anniversary of the Armenian genocide. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the meeting of the club, I would like to give my opinion to the ČSSD. We will support Mrs Richterová's proposal to extend the deadline for 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u42	Thank you for giving me your opinion. I have one more note, and it is from Mrs Langšádlová between 16.30 and 19.00 for work reasons. As far as I know, we have closed the general debate. So I'd like to ask the plaintiff if she's interested in the final word. [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u43	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to take it one step at a time. However, first of all, it must be pointed out, of course, that the current wording of the Housing Development Fund Act already allows support not only for housing but for comprehensive regional development. However, we went to the fact that in Section 3 we discussed very detailed activities that could potentially be supported so that we would not just hide under the heading of regional development. However, if you look at Section 3, you can see that most of these points are about housing, because the Ministry of Regional Development is conceptually responsible for housing policy. And this is the concept that we want to implement through the state fund's financial instruments. Our aim is - and very well said by Mr Juránek - to really make the support more effective. Because if massive housing construction is possible on one side, then of course it is a fund for municipalities and cities mainly. Of course, even potentially regions, if technical infrastructure were to be addressed. But if you're building an important housing building, then the demands of municipalities on kindergartens, on the playground, on leisure activities and so on. It's just natural stuff. And these projects should go hand in hand. Another huge advantage of the fund is - and Mr Adamec here said so - that it will not stick to the financial year. It's just that these investment projects can't be realized in one year. That means calling out a challenge, building and funding. Of course, the benefit of this fund is that the resources are spilling over from year to year as the municipalities need the projects because these projects are at least two years old. What I think is very important here is that the debate about where the state fund will be financed is really very legitimate. However, this will certainly not solve this form of law, but we need to discuss it in particular with the Ministry of Finance and with the municipalities. Because what we are going to say to each other, of course, there are several possibilities, including the tax system, but this certainly deserves a much wider debate. As regards the call itself, as Mr Bartoš pointed out here, and, of course, the call there, it is indeed a call for you to submit projects to a specific subsidy programme. But the receipt of applications alone can be postponed by two to three months. The point is that the individual actors, that is, the beneficiaries of the aid, have sufficient room to prepare for it. As far as the composition of the committee is concerned, of course, that is what we are following - and therefore the Ministry has four representatives - two demands. The first requirement was the Ministry of Finance that if, of course, state budget funds are given there so that the Ministry's funds or funds would be controlled by the Ministry as all the other funds have. And the second thing is that it is precisely because we are the bearer of the concept of housing policy that we need to ensure that housing projects in particular are supported. The other questions were about why the fund didn't go down and why it didn't come up with a new one. We have also discussed this with the Government's Legislative Council, but we have been warned that this is not a conceptual change of the fund, but only an extension of activities. So there's no reason for these things. That is why we are going through this amendment that we are essentially expanding these things and we are naming it in such a way that, of course, this includes technical infrastructure activities. As far as material equipment is concerned, the state fund is newly based about a year and a half on Vinohrady. There, of course, the premises - that is, materially and technically secure. We don't expect any more people to increase. Mostly moving people from MMR to the fund, because now it's actually given that the ministry can provide subsidies and the fund makes loans. But our goals are the final-credit instruments so that, of course, it is effective for the municipalities, because it cannot stay at the Ministry, because the Ministry cannot provide loans. Only a fund can do that. That's why we chose to move to the state fund. So much for me, I guess. I, of course, confirm and agree to extend the deadline by 20 days to discuss these matters. But there is really no reason to worry that housing policy should be secluded somewhere. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u44	I thank the Minister for the final words of the appellant in the general debate. I now ask for the rapporteur's final word in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u45	I would just like to say that I have seen two proposals in the general debate. There was therefore a motion for rejection here, and if this fails, then the proposal to extend the period by 20 days, on which the Vice-President of Social Democracy for the Social Democracy Club and Minister Klára Dostálová spoke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u46	Thank you. Those were the final words. We will therefore now vote on the proposals. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. [[Gong.]] I repeat that there has been a motion to reject the proposal tabled by Mrs Richterová. Looks like all our colleagues have arrived in the O.R. I will repeat that we will vote on the motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 113, 176 Members and Members were enrolled, for 26, against 78. The motion was denied. [[16.30 hours]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. Then we shall proceed to the vote. We will therefore vote on assigning the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 186 Members and Members in the vote 114, for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order a proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? It's not like that. In that case, there was still a proposal in the general debate to extend the time limits for committee discussions by 20 days. I think it's clear what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour of extending the deadline. Who opposes the extension of the hearing period? Thank you. The number 115 vote includes 176 Members and Members, for 145, against no one. The motion was accepted. This concludes the discussion of this proposal in the first reading. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur and pass on the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-008-032.u47	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Before we start discussing another point, I have three tickets here. Mr Marek Benda apologizes today from 16.45 to 19.00 for participation in the commemorative event, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, from today's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the day for work reasons and Mr Václav Klaus from today's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the day for participation in the commemorative act on the anniversary of the Armenian genocide. The next item is
