ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u1	134. Proposal by Members of Válková Válkové, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Zdeněk Ondráček, Marek Výborný, Tomáš Kohoutek and Dominik Feri to issue a law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, and Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended /German press 466/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 466/1. I will first ask the House for peace of mind and, of course, I ask that Mrs Helena Válková present the proposed draft, and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Strýček, is already at the rapporteur's table. The representatives of the appellants, Mrs Helena Válková, are ready for the opening vote. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. milý kolegyna, this proposal for an amendment to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code and the Law on Legal Liability, Criminal Liability, Criminal Liability of Legal Persons was prepared in close cooperation with the Supreme Court, the Supreme Prosecutor, and the final proposal was consulted and modified after consultation with the Czech Bar Association. If you look at the signatures, I think they cover a respectable part of our political spectrum. It is not only YES, ČSSD and KSČM, it is also TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and, of course, my co-president, Mr Marek Benda, for the ODS. So the need to amend in ways that I will immediately introduce, the criminal regulations are great and we are aware of it. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] What's going on here? It is therefore both changes in the field of criminal law of material and necessarily criminal law of procedural law, which then puts these changes into application practice or allows them to apply, but it is not just these related procedural changes, but it is also new ways to make criminal proceedings more effective, faster, cheaper. The first major change concerns redefining individual limits of damage, when the damage was set more than 17 years ago, which, of course, has removed economic reality and, in fact, leads to an increase in criminalisation. It's not just about--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u3	My colleague, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you're discussing a subject other than the amendment to the Criminal Code, please be in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u4	So it's about the boundaries, i.e. not only the lower limit, where it is proposed to increase the threshold, which distinguishes the offences, i.e. addressed by administrative regulations, from criminal offences handled by criminal regulations, but also by the highest, for which, as for particularly serious crimes, high penalties threaten to be unconditional, i.e. a prison where the judge can't practically go under that rate and allow some alternative punishment. This therefore concerns the area of property economic crime. At the highest rate, of course, I originally had a proposal that would really increase and bring economic reality closer to it in a revolutionary way. The current limit is that at least 5 million must be reached. In agreement with the Supreme Attorney General, we finally agreed to submit to $10 million, originally the 20 million limit was seriously discussed. That would be 20 million and higher, those are the highest penalties, especially serious crime. We know that there are billions of damage, especially in the area of economic crime at present. So the current five-million-dollar limit is completely ridiculous, of course, it doesn't answer. So this is the first area, this redefining of individual boundaries of damage, which actually differentiates between offenses and crimes at the lower limit, and then differentiates between crimes and particularly serious crimes, with all the quite harsh consequences related to that, so it's not about a change that would really be just, let's say, aesthetic. This is a fundamental change in content that adapts this area to the current economic reality, when 17 years ago, starting with the minimum monthly wage through social benefits, despite virtually everything, the average wage was completely elsewhere than it currently is, while the limits currently being set at very low amounts apply. So it really leads to criminalization that doesn't match the current economic reality. That's the first thing. Then the second one, which you will not be interested in, is criminally important, or criminally procedural, but for those who in any way would come into contact with criminal justice, whether as witnesses, damage, or God forbid as accusations, defendants, or otherwise. conviction, so I think they would appreciate it if they had the opportunity mainly in the initial stages of the criminal trial to either declare guilt, virtually. as a witness to be present when the accused declared guilty, thereby speeding up the criminal proceedings, so it will be less costly in time, financially, or negotiate an agreement on guilt and punishment, or essentially both. So in that sense, I think this is a major procedural change that will speed up and make criminal proceedings cheaper. And I think that everyone, not only judges and prosecutors, but also those actors, participants in the criminal proceedings that I was just talking about, will really welcome. And that is why there is such a great consensus between the political parties on this amendment. Finally, these are other things that relate partly to the minor regulation of the conditional institute, conditional release, and also to the removal of certain rigidity of the law in the area of criminal liability of legal persons, the issue of smoothing the conviction, where we think it is not appropriate when the legal person is punished, so that five more years will be expected when he will have the so-called. No record. Those are minor changes. But the two essential, redefining of the individual limits of damages § 138 of the Criminal Code, if you would still like to study it in peace of your offices, and the latter, a declaration of guilt and agreement on guilt and punishment, I hope I have presented to you and, of course, I am available for further questions. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u5	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková, for her opening words. And before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies - from 10.30 to the end of the day, Mr Jakub Michálek apologizes. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u6	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I only briefly, because with the whole proposal of this parliamentary law, Professor Válková has very professionally, precisely and pregnantly led us as the plaintiff or petitioner of this law. So I'm just gonna keep it short. What is essentially the aim of this proposal is, in particular, to double the amount of damage to determine the limit of criminality, the possibility of concluding an agreement on guilt and punishment, as well as the most serious crimes or changes for punishing legal persons. The government took a neutral position. I personally recommend this bill as a guarantee committee to the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I'm opening the debate. First up is Mrs Helena Válková. A colleague, Marek Benda, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u8	I would like to touch on one more thing in this speech, which is why I came forward first, because when I introduced the proposal, I think I already mentioned the content changes. We here have an open and second reading on the constitutional-legal committee interrupted by the government proposal for Amendment 453, which has the same goal and uses only other means, so here I want to point it out. It is about simplifying the storage procedure and in practice the execution of the cash penalty. We are particularly interested in property and economic crime so that, as in neighbouring Germany or France, sanctions on property and less unconditional penalties are more used, because, as we know, the relapse after prison is too high, up to 70 percent, or inefficient and too expensive. That's what this novel is trying to do. And we want both amendments, if we release them, which we hope for, by the second reading of this print 466, so we want to propose a connection that 453 and 466 be discussed together, because they are directly related. Although it uses other methods and methods, the objective is clear - to simplify, streamline, reduce and basically improve sanctions policy to meet European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u9	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Dominik Feri will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u10	Mr Vice-President, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite brief, because my colleague, Mr Válková, has already said most of the things that should have gone away. Of course, I support the proposal, given that I am signed under it. As has been said, we are going to try the constitutionally-legal committee because I do not like it when individual regulations are amended three to five times in one year, so we wanted the press 466, which is why we wanted it to be discussed earlier, in the form of an amendment, to apply 453, and so we had one collection amendment that would deal with changes in criminal law, whether from the level of government, which, as far as I know, of course, I know that it gave a neutral position, but that the Ministry of Justice is inclined to discuss it simultaneously and to pull into one press. That's what we're trying to do. I would just like to say that, in addition to what Mrs Válková said, we have just too high a percentage of the population in the Czech Republic. It is not quite normal and this should be one of the ways, whether the government proposal or the amendment that we are putting forward, to reduce the number of people in prison, because in this regard we are the very unflattering first place in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear fellow Members of the Government, I am one of the co-chairs here, and I would like to thank you for the preparation of this proposal, in particular our main promoter, Professor Válková's colleague. I would like to touch on the matter that has already been mentioned here, namely the question of overcrowded prisons, around which there are many myths, and I think it would be appropriate to build it for sure. Here's a summary table. [[shows]] When you look at unconditional prison sentences from 2016 to 2018, so lay public, and sometimes it also sounds in the context of political debates, unfortunately, it tends to look only at the percentage of convictions for individual crimes and to measure those where it thinks we have the greatest debt. If you look at the percentage of those sentenced to unconditional imprisonment in those three years, the conviction for the offence of obstruction of the execution of an official decision and of the expulsion is very unflattering. According to this table of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, it's about 20 percent. But it is also necessary to look at the length of the sentence, the length of the sentence imposed, because it then determines the overcrowding of the prisons. That means, the so-called margarita, the obstruction of the enforcement of the official decision and the expulsion, makes up 20 percent of the convicted, but from the total length of all the penalties imposed, it's only 5%. The same is a very well-known crime of neglecting compulsory nutrition, popularly speaking non-payment of child support - 8 percent, but of a total length of only 3 %. And for drug offences, illicit manufacture and other treatment of narcotic drugs and psychotropic drugs, it's only 7 percent convicted, but it's 16 percent of the overall length. This means that, for example, we should draw our attention there. I mentioned the theft where the object of the fact is the protection of ownership of property, so that is exactly where it is heading, I think, very rightly this proposal, because if we increase the limits of damage, these acts will no longer be considered in criminal proceedings, which is very costly and very demanding for individual criminal proceedings, but in criminal proceedings. That, indeed, must be decided. It is true that a certain part, we estimate some 5%, moves to the municipalities, and we are willing to discuss this with the representatives of the municipalities. It's a slightly questionable matter, because it can burden these municipalities, it can burden the authorities, it will burden the secretaries, it will burden the trade unions. So, of course, that's what we're willing to discuss. But overcrowding because of the theft - for the sake of completeness, 33 percent of those sentenced to unconditional punishment, that is, a third of all those sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, were sentenced for theft, and together it is 22 percent of the entire length. This means that this proposal is one way to fight against that unflattering position, against those 208 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants, which is not quite common within our context, Central European, Western and Central Europe. This proposal has attracted quite a great deal of public attention. But it's forgotten about the theft, because it's a thing that many people in their personal life have encountered, that the criminal code in a special part, in fact - the deed is not just one, but there is another substance that has an element of backwardness in it, that is, touches on recurrence, namely the provisions of § 205 para. 2, where there is no damage. To quote: "Whoever commits a foreign matter by taking possession of it and has been convicted or punished for such an act in the last three years will be punished for six months to three years in prison. " That means there's no element at all that if someone grabs something worth anything, they won't be convicted, or they will be. That means, if anyone has already been convicted, then it doesn't matter if it's five or ten. [[Reaction from the right side of the hall.]] That's right, that's a relapse, and that should be there. And please, if any of the journalists are going to report on this, so that this is mentioned there, that the really loudest cases of relapse are still being thought of under the Criminal Code. In the explanatory memorandum, we are dealing very closely, I think, with the issue of intensifying criminal repression, and this is gradually increasing criminalisation. It was also mentioned in the government's opinion. One of the supporting arguments is the question of minimum wage. Please take this as a supportive argument. The minimum wage does not automatically increase ex lege, but increases on the basis of some government decision, some political consensus, mostly political agreement, and does not necessarily correspond entirely to economic growth. But the main argument, I think, is, for example, a comparison with the average wage, when the average wage has increased by 100 percent since 2001, and the limits of damage remain static, still the same and do not correspond to the time. We will certainly have another expert debate on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee. Of course, but I will be happy to see the representatives of the authorities come and we will address the question of moving into administrative proceedings, because I feel that this is questionable, and I believe that we will come to some agreement. Thank you and thank the appellant once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u13	I thank Mr Dominik Feri. Hrnčíř's colleague will posečkat, President Marek Výborný came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to support the KDU-ČSL for the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club, and finally I am also signed under the 466 press to discuss it. Most of the stuff of content, the merit of the thing here has been mentioned. Indeed, if, if I am not mistaken, the limits of damage were set 17 years ago, they do not only correspond to the legal and economic reality nowadays. This is one of the reasons why these things really need to be fixed. I would like to thank my colleague Válková, who has really been a major participant in the preparation of this press, and, as has been said, I would also support the constitutionally-legal committee, where we would be able to bring these amendments together into one, so as to minimise the fragmentation. I think it would be for the best. We are also prepared to do so on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u15	Thank you and now Mr Jan Hrnčíř with a proper application for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u16	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we cannot support this amendment on behalf of the SPD, and the biggest problem that we see there is the increase in the border, when it becomes, in fact, a felony theft, the distinction from the offence to CZK 10,000. There is an argument here, or the plaintiffs argue that this, of course, burdens criminal proceedings, prisons, etc. That, of course, is true. On the other hand, it needs to be realized that if we lift the border, we will burden the municipal and municipal authorities, and it is of course a problem from the point of view of the owners, for example, of course, when those who steal from the shops are careful to get to the limit of 5,000 crowns. Usually, they're junkies, stuff like that. In criminal proceedings, delivering a decision at all or punishing or enforcing a fine or something like that is practically impossible in the vast majority of cases. The increase will only legalize thefts up to CZK 10,000, there will be no other effect, so I think it's just a gamble. And yet there is no problem using more alternative punishments, community service, bracelets, etc. It doesn't take 5,000 crowns to end the perpetrator's theft. So I'm filing a motion to dismiss this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u17	Yes, I have noted a motion for rejection, as well as perhaps the rapporteur. With the factual remark of Mrs Helena Válková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u18	Thank you. I, perhaps, once again, have explained what is really precise and detailed by Mr Feri, on the example. If I steal a bottle - or I don't know it, I don't know it, but let's say it's an electronic device, and after the novel, if it's approved, it'll be worth 7,000, so it'll still be dealt with as a misdemeanor by the administration. Then the second time I steal some vodka from the store, I don't know what it's worth right now, 200, 300 kroner, it's gonna be on trial because there's a relapse. And for property crimes, it's just a distinctive feature, she's almost a profession, either for those people who somehow have nothing else to do and decided to compensate for the lack of resources in a delinquent way, or for really professionals to repeat. So we really don't have to worry about not doing the crime that deserves to be marked as a criminal offence. We are concerned with the first property offense, where it is really difficult to distinguish 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, and it was clear enough to you, Mr Hrnčíř, by your means, Mr Vice-President, that the economic situation has changed completely. So we just want to be fair, we want the economic reality of criminal repression to correspond, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Dominik Feri, Jan Hrnčíř and then Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's proper application. [[Really!]] Also factual? Okay. Now Dominik Feri's point of view. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u20	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps one more argument as to why this should not be decided in the context of criminal proceedings, that fact. Because of the fact that the municipalities will get worse, but it is now making it easier for them every year, because these acts are becoming criminal offences, even though the legislature originally conceived in 2001, that they were merely offences. This means that the municipalities have now made it easier every year more and more, and now it just somehow equals. And then they're gonna get easier again, because that line is gonna be static. There's no vending machine. There's still gonna be that 10,000, and then he's gonna move it again. Of course, I understand the objections, and I am the last person who would like to impose another obligation on the municipalities. We can sit on it, we can agree on some debate on compensation for example, but municipalities have been lightened and now the situation is simply balanced, and this fact should be decided on the basis of the legislator's original intention under the administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Hrnčíř's factual comment, Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u22	Of course, I perceive all these arguments, but I think that the argument by the economy is quite odd, because when we look at Poland, the border is roughly CZK 3,000, neighboring Slovakia about CZK 6,000, so I don't see the whole reason why we should have the border set this high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u23	Thank you. And now Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's factual comment. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u24	I'd only briefly respond to why we're proposing an increase. You know, I remember when the theft was 2,000 crowns. Then jumped up by not 100 percent as in this case, but increased to 5,000 crowns, which is about 150 percent, and pays 17 years. The economy is moving somewhere, ours, your income is moving somewhere, people's incomes are moving, minimum wage is rising, and now there's a proposal for CZK 10,000. The first-time perpetrator, if he steals up to CZK 10,000, is, of course, a misdemeanor, as mentioned here, or a misdemeanor. If it's changed, it'll burden the municipal authorities, but he'll be punished for committing the offense. And if he's gonna commit some kind of criminal activity somewhere again, and he's gonna do any theft in that store you're talking about, and maybe the junkie who goes and steals the perfume for 300 crowns and sells it for 150 in front of that department store; and I think that every one of us who moves around town etc., we've ever been approached by someone who just got out of the mall and stole something, and it's been offered to us, and it's all different, not just the perfumes, but also the chainsaws and other things from the big department stores - such a person will be punished as it was today in the sense of Section 205 par. 2 of the Criminal Code. So we're talking about first-rate people, and if they're gonna steal up to 5 grand, or 10,000 crowns. If they steal even one roll again in that decisive period of three years - a roll may not be the right example for some, but let's say they steal the perfume I mentioned here, they will already be punished according to § 205 para. 2, as it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Helena Válková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want to clarify what Mr Hrnčíř said here from the economic point of view. I mean, we can't compare the situation in Hungary and Poland logically, because we would have to know - and what I was looking at when I read the government's notice in the very spirit that it was said about it here that it was lower in Poland and in Hungary, so look at their average salaries, see how much it costs and then compare the situation - thank God much better in the Czech Republic. So it's incomparable. That's an odd argument. That's one thing. [[10.40 hours]] And then the other one. I'm gonna go back to the way it was said here that only the first offense would involve the $10,000 limit. Of course, we requested statistics from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. They've been presented to us. We at second reading - which I hope will move on to second reading, because the amendment is mostly beneficial for everyone - so you will see there, Mr Hrnčíř and others who are not yet so familiar with the press, by your means, Mr Vice-President, that the numbers are small precisely because, in the event of a relapse, criminal courts will be back on it. So these perpetrators won't be too many, it won't really burden the administrative authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-005-134.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I no longer have an application for a general debate, and if I do not see anyone, I am ending the debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will therefore vote on the proposal that has been made in the general debate, and that is the proposal for rejection. I will continue to engage so that those who have had other discussions can return from the foyer. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please register with your identification cards to find out the current situation in the Chamber of Deputies, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, we will decide on a motion to reject this press 466 in the 90-two vote. Before that, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. As of 10.40, Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologises. I have begun voting number 92 and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the bill. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 92 of 143 present for 15, against 122. The motion was denied. Let's keep going, then. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 93, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the Commandment as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 93 of 147 for 145, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? It's not like that. I can therefore say that it has not been ordered by another committee and by a committee which will discuss this as a guarantee is a constitutionally-legal committee and the time limit for the hearing remains under the law for 60 days. I am done with paragraph 134, thank you to the appellants' representative, thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue with the block of second reading, first point 15. It's about
