ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u1	24. Government draft Constitutional Act amending Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws / House print 527/ - first reading Lubomír Zaorálek, Minister of Culture, will present the position of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister, take the floor. Subsequently, Mr Jan Farský will be prepared as rapporteur. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u2	Yes, thank you. Hello. Not that I am such an expert in the Constitution, but I would nevertheless like to present to you one of the three drafts of electoral law which should serve to implement some changes in the area of electoral law. You have them as two prints, 527 and 529. These changes are based on the conclusions of the working group, which was created at the Ministry of the Interior, and should also include representatives of parliamentary political parties. The proposal now under discussion, that is press 527, is the amendment to the Constitution. It proposes to set a fixed limit on the proper elections to the Senate and also on the councils of municipalities and regions for the first full week of October, so that the term of the elections does not shift to the summer months. The term of office will then be extended in the case of early elections to the Chamber of Deputies to take place within 90 days of its dissolution. He's been there 60 days today. The reason for this is to create the prerequisites for a correspondent vote in the future even in the situation of dissolution. This step will unify the length of time with the election of the President of the Republic. A provision is also added to the Constitution according to which the territorial definition of electoral districts for elections to the Senate provides for a constitutional law, which means the constitutional law contained in the Houses of the Press 528. The effectiveness of the law is proposed so that changes can be reflected in the proper elections to a third of the Senate and regional councils in autumn 2020. From these autumn elections 2020 to regional councils and the Senate, this law should already apply. This is my opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jan Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add to the content presented by Minister Zaorálek. It is a very brief law, it solves very practical problems that happen when each period is to be four years long at most, so some of you who joined politics a few times ago, you know that the elections took place in November, now we're in October and we're about to end in August. So I'm sure it's time to stop. It is a government bill submitted to the House in June of this year. As a guarantee committee, the Constitutional and Legal Committee is proposed and nothing prevents the discussion of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u5	I'm opening a general debate in which I have no registered... Well, yes, with priority rights, but there is no one else, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u6	Thank you. I had no intention of exercising the right of priority in any way, but I feel obliged to speak to this block of electoral laws, especially to this first one, which is the amendment to the Constitution, which brings about three changes. Two of them are positive, and one of them is bad in my opinion. And not just mine, I believe. One thing is that it would therefore extend the period during which the election campaign takes place in the event of the House's premature dissolution to 90 days. This is certainly a positive thing to standardize, because we already have the Senate, unlike the time when this provision was adopted in the Constitution. So there's no problem that the House may not work for a long time. The second thing that is being introduced is a fixed electoral date for the first week of October, whether for municipal and regional elections, so for the associated Senate elections, it is also certainly positive, because it will lead to greater predictability of all matters and so on. And then there's this thing that I don't think is positive, and that's the territorial definition of Senate districts for Senate elections by constitutional law that sets out fixed lists of municipalities where there's a community in which territory. That's negative for two reasons. The first one is that, as it is proposed in the subsequent constitutional law, it is actually the preservation of the current situation, which simply brings inequality of votes, has sometimes illogical arrangements, does not respect either the boundaries of the regions or the boundaries of the communities with the transferred scope. There is virtually no such thing as deeper logic, nor are there any historical units that we can somehow create and respect. The current distribution is certainly not good, and therefore it seems inappropriate to preserve it constitutionally. In addition, we have a stated principle of Senate elections based on equal rights, and this equal right is not only meant to be within the Senate territory, but to be across those senate districts. This means that senators should represent approximately the same population, and that is simply not at the moment, and the constitutional law will, of course, preserve it in a form that will no longer bring it and respect it. On that working group, as mentioned, the possibility was originally made that it would be counted once every 12 years, for example, so that it would not occur that some citizens would vote for a senator every two years and some once every 10 years, so that circuits would be recounted once every 12 years, for example, so that each person would take two turns in those elections, unless they were moving. Of course, at that point he has the opportunity to vote more times, we can do nothing about it or less. This is what I think is the path we should take, which means that those senate circuits are stronger to respect the structure of the regions, respect the structure of the trio communities so that there is a momentum, so that there is a connection, so that those units that voters are getting used to have some mutual scalability to fit in with each other. The fact that we now have senate districts that cross the borders of historical countries and regions does not make it good and I do not consider it good to preserve it by constitutional law. Moreover, the introduction of this into the constitutional law seems merely an attempt to prevent the review of the equality of voting rights, and I do not think that legislation, moreover constitutional, should be done in this way. So that's so short of me. I am in favour of putting it into second reading, and there is one part that concerns senate districts that I would like to discuss very carefully, and I would suggest releasing it Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u7	The President of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný will now perform with priority rights and will be prepared by Member Stanislav Grospič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I will comment on the same as Vice-President Pikal. Of course, it is absolutely indisputable that it is appropriate, and finally I welcome the fact that there was a consensus across the membership clubs, a political spectrum in that working group, to fix the election deadline for the first week of October. The reasons are clear, and I'm sure I'm glad he has the support, and our support has the support. It has logic, of course, and the right thing to do is to extend this period to 90 days in the event of dissolution of the House. Unlike my colleague Pikal, I do not think that fixing Senate districts would be a serious problem, because in my opinion the problem is today, when some voters do not really vote for the Senate not once every six years, but also in ten or twelve and so on, and on the contrary, some of them go to the elections every two years. I consider this to be something that is contrary to the fundamental principles of electoral law in our country in the finals. So, in this sense, I would rather welcome the fixation of electoral circuits and, of course, if there is any dramatic demographic change, if it turns out that it is necessary to reach into the definition of senate districts, so in ten fifteen years it is not written anywhere that the constitutional law again cannot change the electoral circuits and their boundaries. That, of course, is possible. Just because we put it into constitutional law today doesn't mean it's fixed for ages and ages. On the other hand, I think that on these scales right now, if we accept the fixation, we're going to solve the problem that I consider more serious than the fact that it will have to open the constitutional law every two months and in two three cases specify the division into the electoral districts. But, of course, we will encourage it to get to the next reading, and I believe that we will discuss this in detail on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, or on the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, but, as I have experience, as well as on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u9	Now I'll read the apology. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes between 12 and 13 o'clock for work reasons. So now on the verdict of the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u10	Thank you. I have to react a little. Of course, I'm not saying the current situation is good. The current situation is bad, and that is why I am opposed, on the one hand, to fixing the current definition of electoral circuits by constitutional law, because they are often illogical. In addition, in the current state, there are circuits that are fifteen, sometimes up to thirty percent larger in size than would correspond to some optimism, and that's just a violation of some principle of equality of the voice, and, of course, by fixing it like this, the demographic trends that are in those circuits assume that inequality will continue. I'm not saying there's no need to deal with it. I say, let's settle this with a normal law that will convert every 12 years so that every citizen, not as it is now, every two years before the Senate elections, once every 12 years, let's do the conversion, you said yourself, and we don't have to create a constitutional law that we have to open and rewrite once every 12 years. That's not a solution. Let's create a normal law that will assume a conversion once every 12 years, a greater fixation of those periods, but not a constitutional law that will lead to the fact that if the municipalities infiltrate and merge, it may eventually happen that your community will be listed in the law elsewhere than it really is. That really doesn't seem like a good solution to me. But we'll do this in more detail with the next press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u11	Mr Stanislav Grospič will now speak in the general debate and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to say in essence that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia welcomes the proposal tabled here. Yes, to some extent, it corresponds with what took place on the work committee or the group organized by the Ministry of the Interior. It may be a great pity that this important law is not directly defended here by the Minister of the Interior, although I understand that it is somewhere outside the Chamber of Deputies' work and cannot take part in it, but in itself the solution proposed is very complex and controversial. I don't think there's a full agreement on the method of fixation of senate circuits in the working group. This is a matter which we consider quite essential in the Communist Party, and I believe other colleagues too. And that coincidence, if I felt that way, was mostly within the limits of the fact that the senate districts would not cross the borders of individual regions. I understand that this was a problem for small regions, if the number of senators actually affecting these regions would fall there, because in two cases the number of senators would decrease to two of the existing, perhaps three, but today the territorial districts do not overlap with the boundaries of the regions, i.e. individual senators' circuits affect some regions only a partial number of maybe several municipalities to a greater or lesser extent. So that's the problem. The second problem is that it was also primarily promised by the Ministry of the Interior, a working group, that the borders of Troika municipalities will also be respected. In fact, those small, smaller district units, or substitutables, although administratively, of course, we have and are not abolished by the territorial administrative breakdown of the districts. So I think it has its reasons, because Troikas have an important role to play in elections. It creates a certain momentum for its citizens, and it would make a great deal of sense if this were the way it was adapted. What I personally find unfortunate is that much of the debate is concentrated by the Ministry and the Government in the form of constitutional laws. I understand that, in principle, at the level of constitutional law, the fixed term for elections, which will be given for the first month, can be fixed for the whole month of October. This is certainly a positive thing that will help a lot, and maybe it would generally help in all elections. On the other hand, nothing else should probably be fixed this firmly by the Constitution, because it can create an unsolvable problem. The Constitution does not define, for example, the fixed boundaries of regional self-government, this needs to be mentioned, and here we will define it, and we will define these districts to Senate elections and that is not happy. What I think is also a bad solution when early elections in terms of the length of the election campaign are compared to proper elections. I think that the shorter period of 60 days reflects the moment of extraordinary elections, early elections, and causes a situation where they occur not only in due course, but it is due to the fulfilment of some other situations with which the Constitution of the Czech Republic envisages constitutional order. So on behalf of the KSČM club, I would like to say that we will not propose that this proposal not be discussed, so let it be discussed properly, but we think that, in the form as presented, it should be discussed properly at the level of the Constitutional Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and it will be very, very important if there is any consensus and settlement of the things that I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u13	I will now ask for Mr Marek Benda's speech, so far the last application for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u14	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the Minister of the Interior is not present, but I understand that there is nothing to be done. I basically share the reservations that have been raised here so far. I consider the government's chosen solution to be the most unhappy possible thing you could have invented. I do not understand why Article 16 states that the territorial definition of electoral districts for Senate elections is laid down by constitutional law. I totally don't understand why we're even doing this. That is how we can adopt the constitutional law according to the Constitution. If we want to accept him. If we do it this way, and we accidentally don't accept the constitutional law, then we've probably canceled the Senate. [[Disadvantaged reactions in plenary.]] Well, as a matter of fact, we'd be in a situation where there's no way to vote for the Senate. If we say that the condition is to adopt a constitutional law, and we know how difficult it is to adopt a constitutional law. I don't understand why we're putting it in there. So we have, if we want to have a special constitutional law on electoral districts for the Senate, I think it's useless, I think it's enough if it's a 40-year law, a regular election law. I agree with the idea that it should be fixed for a longer time, but I don't know why it would necessarily have to be in the Constitution. But putting it here-- we're just creating an unsolvable problem. The same is why we're writing details in the Constitution. We know what bad experiences there are. Article 17, the President of the Republic shall declare the elections within 10 days of the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies and at the same time no later than 80 days before they are held. That means he only has two weekends in real life to announce the election. We come from the fact that apparently the President of the Republic is incompetent. But what happens to us if we lose 80 to 90 days for Christmas? Are we voting for Christmas or New Year's Eve? These are simply - why are we writing things in the Constitution that, in my opinion, do not belong to it, are they pointless? Let us conclude that constitutional officials do not behave as some today act as their own, and that when we say: elections are held within 90 days, we do not need to fix that they must be declared within 10 days at the latest and in no more than 80 days. [[There's noise in the room.]] And one final point. If, in my opinion, we should be dealing with something in terms of the fixation of the term, it is a good thing here that the regions and the Senate are being fixed, I think that's the right thing to do, but we have the biggest problem in the presidential election today. Two more, and we're gonna vote for Christmas again, or at the latest, like we did before Christmas. [[unintelligible]] Apparently, the committee wasn't concerned about that at all, if we could also happen to have a firm presidential election. If we couldn't just say that the president of the Republic is elected in February, January, it doesn't matter, any month. Well, when the office of the President of the Republic is released, we have constitutional mechanisms that fix me well enough, how they perform, who executes what. So even if it happens, we'll be without the head of state for three quarters of a year. In my opinion, nothing that terrible is going to happen. So I'm not suggesting that the bill be rejected, but I think the debate in the committees will have to be very thorough. I don't think that Article 16 should be touched at all and all that other stuff just very carefully. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u15	There. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, with a point of fact, has so far been the last application for the debate. Your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u16	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted it to be said here. I think it's very important not to fix those senate circuits permanently, because it's just that the movement of the population is quite significant. I think we should agree on, like, 12 years, where it makes sense that it's two electoral cycles. But to put it permanently, I think it will lead to a system similar to that in Britain, where there is a huge difference between the weight of individual electoral districts according to the population's mandate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u17	There. I will now look around to see if anyone else is in the debate. I don't see anyone else. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? You're not - you're interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u18	I thank you for the debate, but I have heard that no one has suggested rejection. So I understand that everything that's said critical here will be discussed in the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u19	There. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. And I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see any other proposal, so I'm gonna have to get the Members to the Chamber. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 98: 133 Members registered, for 112, against none. I note that this proposal has been approved for consideration by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. [[Before the speaker's desk, there's a word for Mrs. Valachová.]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes. Mr. Kupka, please. Yes, Mrs Valachová. So who was before? Then we'd prefer the lady. So please, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u20	Thank you, gentlemen. I would suggest that the House order a permanent commission for the Constitution in terms of customs. It's about changing the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u21	Mr. Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u22	I would like to propose a committee on public administration and regional development because the impact on municipalities, cities and regions is significant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-012-024.u23	There. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? I do not see another proposal, so we will first vote on the proposal by Mrs Kateřina Valachová, so that the proposal is also ordered to be discussed by the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 99: 133 Members registered, for 117, against 1. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution for deliberation. We will also be voting here on the proposal by Mr Kupka, who proposes that the proposal be also directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 100: 133 Members registered, for 107, against 4. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as another committee. This concludes the first reading of this proposal. We will proceed to the next press and this is about
