ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u1	220. Annual report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for 2018 /house print 437/ This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No.6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets. His resolution was delivered to you as House Press 437/1. I will ask Mr Karel Rais once again to take the floor as rapporteur for the committee and inform us of the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. He's interested in the governor's performance. prosit, as a reporter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u2	Mr President, Members, honourable Members, I will try to be very brief, but I would not want to deprive you of the opportunity to hear my justification for the report on management. It is a report on the management of the National Bank for 2018. Just the main factors in the summary. The CNB reported an accounting profit of CZK 1.8 billion. The development of the koruna exchange rate played a crucial role. That is how we do our business, because the vast majority of our balance sheet is made up of foreign exchange reserves. The trend for strengthening the domestic currency, which was here after the end of the exchange rate commitment in April 2017, as known, in the spring of last year was interrupted mainly due to foreign factors. The koruna then weakened slightly in the second quarter and remained in these positions until the end of 2018. The CNB thus recorded unrealised exchange rate gains, which significantly contributed to an aggregate exchange rate profit of 42 billion. On the contrary, the changes in domestic monetary policy settings have affected this, say, positive trend. In 2018, we significantly increased interest rates, as we know. We've started the so-called. gradual normalization of interest rates. This, of course, affected the bank's management in the opposite direction and meant that we spent CZK 27 billion on the costs of monetary policy operations in the free market. Usually, the cost of monetary policy, the implementation of those measures on the free market, is covered by foreign reserve revenues, but in this respect, the past year has been very exceptional given that the remuneration of fixed-interested instruments has been negative for the euro area's money market in the long term, and of course this has also meant a fall in our revenues, and this has also been added to the decline in stock markets at the end of 2018. As a result, we reported a negative economic result of 12 billion on the management of foreign reserve assets. [[14.40 hours]] The decline in share prices has been exceptional in recent years, but gradually its compensation has taken place and, in fact, already in the middle of the current year, it was more than compensated. But of course it was reflected in the final figures of 2018. The CNB spends money with professional care and emphasis on economy. We have a priority in applying this approach in our internal management or operational management. Of course, we are forced to increase wages and other personnel costs year-on-year, as the labour market develops, in order to maintain competitiveness in this area and to continue working with the best possible experts. The positive result for 2018 will be used, respectively. it was used to cover the accounting loss of previous years and as provided for by all the rules. The outstanding part of the losses of the past years of 187 billion will remain in the bank's balance sheet until its full repayment. We have done the same in past periods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u3	Thank you, Mr. Governor. And now I will ask the rapporteur to inform us about the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u4	Hello. As the Governor said here, this is a regularly presented report on the management of the Czech National Bank. To stress that this report is audited by the auditor Deloitte Audit, s. r. o., I would like to quote from this report: "In our opinion, the attached accounts provide a true and fair picture of the Czech National Bank's assets and liabilities and the costs and revenues and results of the 2018 management." We have discussed this report in detail with the Committee on Budgets, and, as in the previous case, Parliament's Committee on Budgets's recommendations are to take note of that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u5	Thank you. I am initiating a general debate. I ask who is interested in speaking in the general debate. Please, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Governor, I would like to ask you a question which is indirectly related to your annual report, and it is a measure of the Czech National Bank, respectively. on the recommendation of banks to, say, restricting and tightening the provision of mortgages. I have already asked you here about this last year, and I want to ask you whether this measure has fulfilled its purpose, because I have reports from the field that banks often replace the missing portion of the principal and provide applicants with not a mortgage, but, for example, carry-over loans, where the conditions and the credit burden are much higher for citizens in the finals. So I don't know if this, from my point of view, really led to the objective of reducing the tax burden on the population. So I want to ask your opinion and whether you're following this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u7	Thank you. Let me read the apology: a written apology from Mr Klaus, who apologizes today from 15.40 to 17.20 for family reasons, has been brought directly to the chair. I ask who is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr. Mr. Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am no expert in this area at all. However, we have heard that this report is being audited by some very, very, very, very, very, very company. Please, what if it wasn't? Or what is the purpose of this message? To take note of that? None of you were listening! I'm quite sorry for the governor who reads something in front of us -- a few people, yeah, sorry, a few people listened. I just feel like it's some kind of ugly word I don't want to say, a clown thing. We'll take it whether Deloitte accepts it or not. What is the purpose of this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u9	Thank you. Mr Skopeček is reporting for a general debate. Then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u10	Thank you very much. I wanted to make sure we didn't listen here. I listened very carefully, however, because this is some statement of the past and a description of the previous period, so I didn't have much to say about it. Perhaps only with the remark that while the Czech National Bank is making profits today, we can expect very high losses of the Czech National Bank due to the exchange rate commitment and the high share of foreign reserve assets in the future. However, to develop a debate here, which even in theory is not solved, whether the loss is only accounting, or has some real impact, I did not really want it here. My colleague Munzar took the wind from my sails a little bit in terms of the debate on the recommendation of the Czech National Bank regarding the regulation of mortgage provision. On the other hand, I think we are going to have a very heated discussion about this and a debate in the Czech National Bank's efforts to push through the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act, which is supposed to bring these recommendations into the form of legal measures. Otherwise, when my colleague Munzar opened it, I'll just mention that the application of the recommendations itself led to the pre-supply of mortgages, that there was such a spike. And I will argue that when we discuss the amendment on the Czech National Bank, it is precisely these regulations that cause the unintended consequences, such as the spike that we experienced in the mortgage market. So let's go back to normal monetary policy from the very low interest rates, that's definitely the right way to go. And it's a better way to go, even when it comes to some cooling down of the mortgage market than some ideas for a stronger level of regulation in terms of providing mortgages. Because it leads, as I said, to the unintended consequences, and it leads to the release of medium-class mortgages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u11	Thank you. The rapporteur has entered into a discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u12	Hello. I wanted to assure my colleague Brázdil that this was given quite a lot of attention within the budget committee. And all they said was the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u13	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I see no one reporting, and I am ending the general debate. I assume the governor is interested in the final word now to answer the question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, Members of the House, thank you for your questions. I'll be brief. As regards regulatory measures in relation to mortgages, I have already tried to explain their importance here during the last discussion and I would say that the experience of about the last year since then has confirmed us that we have done the right thing, that we have actively applied these measures. We simply have a task, and it is our duty by law to ensure financial stability in this country. I understand that at this point, this is something that does not excite most of the auditorium or public opinion, because, thank God, we have had a stable healthy financial sector in this country for about 15 years now, and we were one of the few countries in the European Union who, after the crisis that we say today, did not have to pay from taxpayers' money to the financial sector. [[14.50 hours]] We take it for granted, but she's not entirely for granted. And because we want this to be the best lasting, if possible long-term, we take our role - to ensure financial stability - very seriously. And, of course, the role is not only pleasant to announce that, according to the stress tests of our banks, but also insurance companies, pension funds are very healthy at the moment, but also part of it, if necessary, is to take certain regulatory measures precisely so that we do not get into a situation of too much risk in relation to the functioning of those key institutions, which are, in particular, banks. And if we live in a successful country, mostly in successful countries sooner or later, especially in low interest rates, and this is a global situation today, property prices are rising relatively expansionally. That's what's going on with us. Of course, they are not only growing because of large demand, which is ultimately a result of this positive economic development, but unfortunately they are also growing as a result of not quite adequate supply, but that is the side of a problem that we cannot influence. If about 60 percent in banks, 50 to 60 percent of all loans constitute mortgages, it is a matter of fundamental scope. Therefore, we have gradually approached the introduction of certain regulatory measures, first the LTV indicator, that is to say the value of the loan to the pledge, the value of the pledge, that is the indicator that is most commonly used and responds to the situation of fast-growing real estate prices. There is a potential problem that banks may somewhat overestimate the value of these properties and may enter into risks that are simply inadequate to the potential dynamics of the relevant market. Hence, since October last year we have also used the indicators relating to the debt burden, that is, we have set a maximum of nine times the debt in relation to annual net income, and we have determined what I would call the employment debt service at 45 percent of net income. When you think about it, in my opinion, these are very modest boundaries which essentially express the maintenance of certain safe boundaries for the debt of the household or individual concerned, depending on who is the beneficiary of the loan. What Mr Munzar said about replacing banks with other loans is, in principle, not possible in the construction of those indicators, because the indicator includes not only the values resulting from the particular loan that it is, but actually has to contain - and the banks must apply it this way, and if they do not apply it, we are, of course, responding to it - all the debt burden of the person who is taking the loan, or his previous loan, his credit cards, his other loans, whatever type, consumer and the like. So the indicator in this direction is robust and it can't be bypassed basically by taking some other loans except for the mortgage that he wouldn't have achieved in full. Of course, this leads to the fact that, in some cases, applicants have to draw more family members into this loan or use different family properties as pledges and so on, but that is a standard, basically legitimate process, and the system can deal with that already. So from this point of view, I'm not worried. Of course, regulation, every regulation has to be introduced from a date, because it has to be legally conformal. And, of course, when something is being prepared, it is clear that the market responds to this and in some way there is a certain pre-supply. This happened here too, but it was the process we were counting on, it's nothing surprising, and of course the frontload is absorbed gradually over time. It also shows that dramatic predictions - especially those of stakeholders, that is, especially distributors, banks and developers - are not being fulfilled as the mortgage market collapses. It turns out that the drop will be somewhere around 10, 15 percent tops, and maybe less throughout the year, that is, until the one-off frontloading is eliminated from the statistical data. As far as the importance of the report is concerned, the rapporteur has already responded. That report is actually under discussion in the Committee on Budgets. It is standard report, it is standardly audited according to all regulations, domestic and international, and I think it is right that Parliament is familiar with the report on activities, particularly management, of the national banks of this state. Finally, Parliament is the only place that the central bank is indirectly confessing in this way. We cannot even take instructions from other bodies, nor any other instructions, as the Constitution and the law speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u16	Thank you for the floor. I see that the Governor has remembered his political career and, as an experienced former Prime Minister, he has not responded to my colleagues in the debate, but only in the final word, so that they cannot respond. But we're team players, so I took over the relay pin from my colleagues when they can't get off at this point. Let us take this as a small introduction to the debate on regulations that the Czech National Bank has enforced on the government, because I think it is not a government proposal, but the Czech National Bank - I am talking about regulation of the mortgage market. And the key questions are as follows. First, isn't the Czech National Bank fighting either an old war or a foreign war? The governor here said, and in that we agree completely - that our banking market is healthy, our banks are healthy, we didn't have a problem. According to our information, the Czech National Bank has taken this very seriously. So the key question is, why is it being legalized? Do you have any signals that banks don't control it? That they don't give a damn about the recommendation of the Czech National Bank? We don't have that kind of signal, but of course we can be wrong. And if that happens, we'd like to know the numbers quantified, of course, in the sum, not as in particular banks, but let's say that from x cases there were so many percent against recommendations, and I really don't care which bank house to see how big the problem is or how small it is. [[Nesroz.]] I think that many of us who have ever asked for a mortgage - and I have been one of them for many years - have not yet been in the Chamber of Deputies to correct any questions - will encounter anything other than what the governor has pointed out that banks would overestimate property prices. I think the experience is the opposite, that one thing is the market price, the price at which the applicants want to buy the property, and the other, how the bank evaluates it, specific. And in this our banks are relatively conservative, and very often the estimate of the real estate of those banks is lower than the real purchase or market price. Sometimes very much. Again, I don't know what the governor is based on when he says banks can artificially raise this parameter and thus increase the risk. When we look at the parameters of the debt service mentioned by the governor, and we say what real rents are in Prague, many families could not even have rental housing when applying a similar rule on rental housing, because the rent is higher than 45 percent of the monthly income. Where does it end, the regulation? Isn't it dangerous for the family? There is no risk of execution that they will be indebted when the rents - for example, rent, and I am talking about net rent, not to mention energy - are often higher than 45 percent of the net monthly income in Prague. To me, the Czech National Bank - I have been here in the Chamber of Deputies for nine years - feels like a hack that is constantly gaining more and more competence. It wasn't just for Governor Rusnok, to tell you the truth, he hasn't been in that position for so long, but I'd say once there's any competence the Czech National Bank might have, go after her, go into the law, and we'll have it. [[15.00 hours]] I think it is right, as the Governor here pointed out, that the Czech National Bank should not take instructions, even from the Chamber of Deputies. The only instrument we have as Members and our fellow senators, now that we have Senate vomit, is legislation. And consider in detail whether we need further regulation to be enacted. We don't think so. We do not see the risks at this time, we do not have any indication that the recommendations issued by the Czech National Bank, commercial banks - I think small to - do not respect that they are acting at risk. We would also be interested in numbers if we took the risky loans that individual banks have, what percentage of that makes the mortgage loans. At the same time, mortgage loans are usually the ones that are best secured. I don't see the risk that big. We would need a percentage again, apparently, to know what a big problem. I do not rule out that, in an individual case, a problem may arise, but we do not think that it is a big or horizontal problem that banks would eventually suffer losses by providing bad mortgage loans and not getting to their sources by, for example, providing bad mortgage loans. they have cashed in pledges that are very often accompanied by mortgage loans. So we're looking forward to the debate. I don't think we have to run it anymore today. I just wanted to say that we're very skeptical about it. In addition to the fact that there will certainly be an argument that these parameters are very often used abroad, those mentioned by the governor or those indicators. That's right. But few are used all three at once, at least in our experience. So I'd like to ask you when the first reading of this bill is here and we'll talk about foreign experience to find countries where all three parameters are used simultaneously. Not only the value of the property or just one of those parameters of the debt service, whether the total value of the annual net income or the net monthly income. Because we think that if there's no problem, and we don't see the problem, there's no reason to put it there. We'll deal with mine tomorrow. on the problems in America's markets eight or nine years ago and we will implement a European regulation or a European directive that responds with a delay of ten years to problems in other countries. And we're gonna accept here that private companies are supposed to publish detailed pay programs for their top managers. It's such a decoy. Today, there will be trouble, not in Europe, especially not in the Czech Republic, America, and after ten years we are coming up with a senseless measure to be taken in the Czech Republic and which companies listed on the stock exchange will impose, if they pass, an obligation to publish the remuneration schemes of top managers in detail. At the same time, if any of you asks for information about how much an official takes e.g. at the Ministry of Finance, so the answer will be that expert Deputy No. 1 takes so much, Assistant Director No. 2 takes so much, Director of Division No. 36 - now I mean serial, not department number - takes so much. But in a private company, we'll know that the top manager of a private company listed on a stock exchange named Josef Novák, I used the most common Czech name, I hope there's no such thing, I don't mean exactly, he's got that kind of salary, that kind of reward, that kind of life insurance, that kind of pension insurance. And that's called shareholder protection. And so I could go on. But let us save the debate for the legislative meeting, because it is really the only instrument that we can, if not regulate, define the scope of the Czech National Bank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u17	Thank you. Let me read your apologies. She apologises to Minister Jana Maláčová from 14.30 for work reasons, she apologizes to Mrs Lucie Šafránková from 14 to 15.20 for work reasons. Now the rapporteur would still have the opportunity to say the final word. I'm asking if he's interested. [[He doesn't.]] So we will proceed to the debate in detail. I am opening up a detailed debate. I ask who is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. Perhaps I would ask the rapporteur to read the resolution in detail when we had the debate before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u18	Resolution of the Budget Committee of the 23rd meeting of 7 May 2019 on the Annual Report on the Economic Results of the Czech National Bank for 2018. After the opening words of a member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank Dědek, the report by Raise, presented on behalf of Mr Venhoda, and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic first takes note of the Annual Report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for 2018; secondly, recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 47 para. 4 of Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, notes the Annual Report on the Economic Results of the Czech National Bank for 2018'; Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u19	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Final words? Mr. Governor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I apologize for holding you up a bit. I see. But I would hardly leave without a certain response to Mr Stanjura. First of all, the CNB hasn't recovered anything from the government. According to the law, the CNB and the Ministry of Finance are co-submitors of laws under the competence law in this area, so that we have agreed on a proper legislative path with the Ministry of Finance and, as the law says, we have put it forward and this is how it will go to the House. Why are the recommendations to change to law? Well, because we don't know what's gonna happen. Of course, the situation doesn't look dramatic today. But we want us to have strong enough tools to make sure that once it's significantly more complex, and she can always be more complex, because we live in a market cyclical economy, so it just doesn't have to be enough. We are also facing partial cases today where recommendations are not being implemented. It's not true they're mass-filled. But mostly we today on those key Czech banks that have domicil here, i.e. they are Czech joint stock companies, we have a secondary sufficiently powerful tool by simultaneously supervising them. In a moment - and this will happen over time, there is no doubt - when players in the form of branches will operate here, as some smaller banks already operate here, or cross-border entities or entities that sell mortgages on the Internet, so our recommendations are ineffective on them. They are simply ineffective because we do not supervise them in the area of caution, i.e. In those areas where we can force them to increase capital adequacy, we can ask them to be prepared for a higher risk. So what we're proposing here to turn into a law is simply an instrumentarium that's good to have prepared at the time of the crisis. When the crisis comes, it'll be too late for law enforcement. And I think it's obvious. The CNB didn't get anything, and it was before my pontification. Unfortunately, here is the custom in this republic that anything smells of money, so it is simply suitable for the CNB because it has an amazing effect. First, it works, and second, the government isn't worth anything. But we are now extremely overcompensated - in terms of competence - by the central bank. Virtually no central bank in the world has as many tasks as we do. Government agencies do it in a number of countries. And we didn't report it. Surely some of you will remember, we didn't want to supervise consumer credit, we didn't want some other issues. Moreover, we have a system that, for example, in the euro area - cannot be continued for those who are calling - ask colleagues from Slovakia. Our subjects don't pay for supervision. Ask Slovak banks how much they pay the ECB for supervision. We don't pay for supervision. Everything is covered by the CNB from its revenues and from its budget. So please nicely, it is not that the CNB has been digging up new and new competences and looking forward to how it will have to hire other employees, stuffing them into an existing building or some other building and so on. [[15.10 hours]] Of course, at this point, we have few bad loans, especially in the area of mortgages, but also others. Please nicely, in Ireland about a few weeks before the total collapse of the banking sector had almost no bad loans including mortgages, everything was OK because the real estate market looked great. All those prizes you say are undervalued, they look great too. But then when the real estate fall happens, it's all just theory and dust, the reality is just different. Reality is the money, the capital, and that's why we're pushing for caution. We don't want this beautiful-looking state to last forever, because we know that the risks are always hidden there, and they can appear at any time. We're looking forward to the debate, too, I'm sure. And if you're referring to transparency here, among other things, in this amendment to the CNB Act, there is another step towards transparency, when we propose that not only the Bank Board's salaries be published, they are already public, they are in this report, but also B minus 1, which means all section directors, of course, by name. So I guess what we're talking about here doesn't apply to us. And the fact that there is some European regulation that is coming, please, it is hard to influence the CNB. I understand that we may be an interesting target at the moment, but we really don't control everything in this country, we don't control and we do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-002-220.u21	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have both concluded a detailed debate, so I cannot give you the floor at this time. [[Some Members from the right side of the hall wanted to leave.]] The rapporteur would still have the opportunity to say the final word. He's not interested. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. [[Gong.]] We will vote on the resolution presented by the rapporteur here in the detailed debate. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 943 registered 181, for 132, against 1. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution was therefore approved. We've dealt with point No. 20, which I am finishing, and I thank the Governor for attending today's meeting. The next item is
