ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-003-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 203/10/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 203/11. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Jiří Dienstbier among us, who has already taken his place on the rapporteur's table. I would like to ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, to speak first for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-003-001.u2	Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a very brief comment on the Senate's amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners. The Senate's proposal concerns the residence of foreigners for study purposes. Already today it is required that a third-country stranger has at least enough money to stay in the Czech Republic to avoid becoming a burden on our social system. The Ministry of the Interior therefore examines whether a foreigner will have something to pay at least the most necessary costs associated with his stay. Today, a future student has the opportunity to argue by paying the costs by inviting institutions, by their future income in the territory, or by owning a sufficient amount of money in a bank account. As the Ministry of the Interior, we had no interest in changing anything in this practice in the bill, but we were alerted by the Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government to the fact that the relevant directive of the European Union places emphasis on paying the costs of inviting institutions and on the amount of future income of a stranger. On the contrary, the argument of the current amount of funds in a foreigner's bank account does not fully correspond to the text of this Directive. For this reason, the Ministry of the Interior has no longer provided this third option in the Government's proposal. In view of the above, I took a neutral position on the amendment which would leave this third option in the law when discussing the bill in the Senate plenary, and I took a neutral position in the third reading on the same proposal by Mr Kopřiva. As much as I respect the opinion of the Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government, I do not believe that the version proposed by the Senate would contradict the directive in such a way that the Czech Republic is facing proceedings for the wrong transposition of European Union law. Maintaining the current state of affairs, as the Senate is proposing, will, as a result, be more advantageous for foreign students and, in the interests of a smooth adoption of the bill, I am willing to support the approval of the law as amended in the Senate, that is, in the wording of the Senate amendment. If, of course, the Senate version did not pass, I would ask for approval of the House version, because I consider this law absolutely crucial to the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-003-001.u3	Thank you. I'll ask Senator Jiří Dienstbier to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-003-001.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, Minister Hamáček has already basically described the substance of the Senate amendment. Its essence is actually the only thing that makes life easier for students. Until now, they have been able to provide sufficient money under the legislation so far, for example, by keeping it in their account. The change, as it passed through the House, disrupted this possibility and replaced it by proving the aggregate monthly income, which may be beneficial for those who do not have the funds, but are able to earn them on an ongoing basis. The Senate amendment actually preserves both the existing option and the new proposed amendment. Thus, as has already been said here, it is more advantageous for students who apply for a long-term stay for study purposes. I think the requirement of the directive was to supplement the overall income. The fact that the position of students is improving should, by definition, not be contrary to the directive or secondary European legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-003-001.u5	Thank you. I ask if any of the rapporteurs from the committees who previously discussed this press would like to comment on the amendments tabled. The rapporteur for the guarantee committee was Mr Radovan Vích. Whether he's interested in a performance? [[No.]] The rapporteur of the Foreign Committee was Mr Rakušan and the rapporteur of the Economic Committee was Mr Pustějovskýějovský. I do not see anyone wishing to comment on the amendments. I am therefore opening up a debate on this point. I ask who is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. [[Gong.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I've already called our colleagues before the vote. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 203/10, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 203/11.' I'm picking up an application for a check-out that I just granted, and I'm gonna ask you all to re-enlist with your cards. 154 Members are registered at the moment. Looks like the number's settled. [[15.20 hours]] I will not read the resolution again. We know what we're voting on. We're voting on the Senate version of the bill. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 944, there are 166 Members, for 124, against 40. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I thank the senator and end this point. Let me read one apology. Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes today at 16 o'clock for personal reasons. Opening point number
