ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-001-216.u1	216. Czech National Bank report on inflation - January 2019 (The Monetary Development Report for the second half of 2018) /German press 407/ According to Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, the Czech National Bank is obliged to report to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year on monetary developments. I will ask the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, to present the report. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-001-216.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present our last report on inflation. In the meantime, time has shifted against the report you have in your written documents, so it is good to inform you of the most recent information available. The year-on-year growth of the Czech economy in the first quarter of this year remained at 2.6 percent. According to our latest forecast, the Czech economy will continue to grow at around 2.5 percent this year and could accelerate slightly next year. All components of domestic demand will be behind this, especially the solid dynamics of household consumption, which reflects high, albeit gradually slowing down income dynamics. There remains a shortage of free labour, which still motivates domestic firms to invest. Furthermore, government investment will continue to grow with a significant contribution from projects co-financed by European Union funds. Fiscal policy will also contribute to the growth of domestic demand this year by increasing wages in the public sector, pensions and social benefits. The labour market is beyond its peak, but the tense situation persists. Therefore, wage dynamics will only decrease gradually. A record low unemployment rate is already preventing it from falling further. As a result, overall employment will grow more slowly. [[14.30 hours]] Inflation has been located in the upper half of the tolerance band of the CNB's 2% target since the beginning of this year. In May it reached 2,9%. According to our forecast, inflation will remain in the upper half of the tolerance band of the target in the rest of this year. The reason for this will be the continued fundamental inflation pressure, which follows, in particular, from the growth in income I was talking about, the increased dynamics of regulated prices this year, as well as the renewed rise in food prices. Overall, however, inflation pressures are already decreasing. In addition to the temporary withdrawal of the inflationary effect of import prices, domestic inflationary pressures are also eased, particularly in the context of slower growth in economic activity. At the beginning of next year, therefore, inflation will decrease to a 2% target, which will also contribute to the monetary policy stance and the resolution of the current high dynamics of some regulated prices. Our forecast envisages an increase in domestic interest rates, which already took place at our last monetary negotiations in May, and then assumes an approximate stability of these rates by the middle of next year. The initial increase in rates at the beginning of the forecast reacted in particular to persistent domestic inflation pressures. The subsequent approximate rate stability by the middle of next year reflects the remaining negative interest rates in the euro area as well as the overall slowdown in the global economy. According to the forecast, the exchange rate of the koruna against the euro will gradually strengthen this year as a result of a significantly positive interest rate differential against the euro area as well as the continued real convergence of the Czech economy. The exchange rate should be strengthened more slowly next year following the expected start of the gradual standardisation of monetary policy by the European Central Bank. At its May monetary meeting, the Board assessed the risks of the inflation forecast as broadly balanced. It identified a stronger and possibly longer-term slowdown in economic activity in euro area countries as a risk to the forecast. The effects of protectionist measures in world trade remain a source of external uncertainty. Uncertainty is, of course, linked to some extent to the future development of the koruna exchange rate. In conclusion, as I have already mentioned, the Bank Board decided to increase the two-week repossession by 25 basis points to 2 per cent. At the same time, the discount rate was increased to 1 per cent and to 3 per cent. Thank you for your attention and I'm ready for any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-001-216.u3	Thank you, Mr. Governor. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 407/1. I will ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-001-216.u4	Hello. We heard a detailed message from the governor. Basically, I don't have anything to say about it. We discussed this material at the Committee on Budgets at the 21st meeting of 20 March 2019 and I have here a resolution on the Czech National Bank Report on Inflation - January 2019. [[Report on monetary developments for the second half of 2018]] Following the opening words of the representative of the Czech National Bank, pan Komárek, Mr Rais's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic First, notes the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - January 2019; [[Report on monetary developments for the second half of 2018]] Secondly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - January 2019; [[Report on monetary developments for the second half of 2018]] Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to familiarise the House of Deputies with this resolution - which I am doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-001-216.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate and ask which Members are interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words of both the Governor or the rapporteur. It's not like that. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I ask who is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If this is not the case, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the final resolution on this point. I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - January 2019." [[Report on monetary developments for the second half of 2018]] We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 942 registered 180, for 138, against no one. The motion was accepted. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. Opening point 220. That's what it is.
