ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital city of Prague, as amended /German press 273/5/ - rejected by the Senate Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u2	I am sorry, Mr President, fellow Members. In the previous vote, I voted by abstaining, and I am on drugs. I do not question the vote, I mention only for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u3	You're not questioning the vote? No, okay. I read the title of the item. The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 273/6. I welcome Senator Miloš Vystyl among us. I ask that the Senate's resolution rejecting this bill be expressed in favour of Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. And then the rapporteur for the Ivan Bartoš Guarantee Committee will comment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u4	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u5	Sorry. Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u6	Let me repeat the House Press 273, which is a bill for extradition amending the law on municipalities, regions and the capital city of Prague. Once again, I would like to state what the bill brings. It solves the accumulation of rewards, and if anyone becomes a Member, a Senator, a member of the government, and at the same time is a relaxed representative, i.e. The mayor, the deputy mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the deputy, the councilman, but also the chairman of the committee, will receive 40 percent of the reward for this vacancy. [[16.40 hours]] Let me remind you that the Government adopted a favourable position in its resolution No 637 of 3 October 2018, the bill was approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the third reading of the bill took place on 13 March 2019 at the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies passed the Senate bill as press 72. The proposal was ordered in the Senate to discuss the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee, Constitutional Law and Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport. On the third of May, I took part in the Senate's 8th meeting, where there was a long discussion with this House press, and I must say that the Senate then suggested, after discussion, that this press be rejected. In the context of the discussion of this proposal, I would like to point out the things that have been said in the Senate. One of them is the economic context of the adoption of that principle of limitation of cumulation of remuneration. Here I would just like to remind you that every year a new government regulation on the remuneration of representatives is approved. I'm sure it's a good thing that there's a percentage going up every year, and I have to say that even in the Senate, one of the senator's senators said that when I was the head of the Union of Towns and Communities, he definitely liked me, but that at this point, I want to and that mayors take small rewards. I told him that I'm sure I identify with this, that mayors take small rewards, but that he, as senator and mayor, takes a big reward because he receives 200 percent for these two functions - in quotation marks, and I think that a 140 percent reward is sufficient. I would like to say that the total expenditure in 2018 for remuneration, including severance payments and statutory contributions from the budgets of local authorities, amounted to 6,830,000 in the last year, so it increased by 1,250,000. That is why I think that we are not talking about symbolic means, which, in my opinion, is a good thing, because municipal and regional representatives should be properly paid for their work. I even think that the work of local politicians and the responsibilities associated with it deserve a greater reward. However, those who perform multiple functions should not be paid twice. In addition, the proposal envisages that the funds saved, i.e. the reduced 60 per cent, will remain in the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions and representatives at the same time decide how to dispose of these savings in a given municipality, city or region. Another argument raised in the Senate is that only the constituencies of representatives of local authorities and members of the legislature are being addressed and, for example, the accumulation of the remuneration of doctors and teachers. There is no way I can relate to this, because when someone becomes a Member, citizens elected him. If someone becomes a doctor, they are not elected to such a function. So we can talk about it sometime in the past, but I think that we are talking about, at this point, the accumulation of Members' remuneration, where citizens, from the point of view of the mayor, the mayor of the mayor, are, of course, electing representatives from among themselves. I must also state that this was accompanied not only in the Chamber of Deputies but also in the Senate by great emotions. I certainly understand because it concerns us, the Members and the Senators. From the point of view of the Members, it is about 40 Members who accumulate rewards, but there are a number of Members who are no longer vacant representatives today - I also belong to them, I am an unreleased Governor, who also receives a 40 percent reward, there is Mr Kupka and others who are now, because the law brings it, but of course there are some who - and I must say that from the senator's point of view, and I apologize, it is almost an absolute majority. I've done the statistics, and I understand that local politicians, mayors, are very successful right now and are becoming senators. I must say that Mr. Vystrčil constantly made an argument in the Senate regarding the National Sports Agency. At that moment, when this was discussed in the Senate, it was not yet known who would be chairman of the National Sports Agency. Today we know that Milan Hnilička became chairman. A constant argument was made that he would also accumulate these rewards. I just want to, because I've heard it here, that it's flowing through the House and that it's gotten to Mr. Kalousek, for example, so there's no way it's based on the truth, because Law No. 236/1995 Coll., the Act on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state bodies, clearly states that if Mr Hnilička is a Member today and also the President of the National Sports Agency, he receives only one reward, and that is the higher one. So the President of the National Sports Agency can also comment on this. At the same time, I would like to make one further argument, and this is the one, because Mr Kalousek also spoke to this bill at first reading, and we also have other members of the government, such as Klára Dostálová, Vojtěch Adam, who are MEPs and ministers, and they also receive one reward. Although they receive allowances for assistants, they receive an office allowance, but they receive no reward for the physical exercise of their duties as a Member. honourable Members, I have said a number of reasons and arguments and I believe that this law is correct, fair and very simple and technically feasible. And I suggest we stick to the House version, which we should all send a clear signal to citizens together that we support a fair reward for the work done also in the case of politicians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u7	Thank you. I just want to say that we're not in the debate, so I'm erasing all the factual points I have here. At this point, I ask that Senator Miloš take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the floor and for the fact that, after coming here for the third or fourth time, I am also getting to the floor here at the rhetorical stage. To begin with, as I have been waiting here, I have been looking for the latest research into the credibility of the individual representative corps and the last STEM survey of March and April 2019 says that 66 percent of people believe or trust municipal councils, regional councils 48 percent and the Chamber of Deputies, respectively the Senate, are always around 30%. [[16.50 hours]] I am saying this because we are in a situation today that those who enjoy the slightest trust are telling those who enjoy the greatest confidence, how they should behave and what money they should take and when they should or should not give up, which seems completely paradoxical, pointless and denying the basic information we receive from citizens. They most trust the local politicians, the ones we're telling today that they don't deserve 60 percent of their salary, and we're gonna tell them, from the position of those they least trust, that they shouldn't marry them. And when we look at the explanatory memorandum, there's only one reason, and that's that it's in the public interest that it's a public interest not to take 100 percent of the reward, but to take only 40 percent. I don't know how it came to be 40 percent, it doesn't take 39 percent or 45 percent. And I don't even know how it was found that it was a public interest that the Chamber of Deputies had to implement. Because the first question that we should ask ourselves is whether we're supposed to deal with this thing, if it's unsolvable somewhere else. And I could, in turn, wonder about some of the colleagues who like to protect themselves with the different principles that we use throughout Europe, and that is the so-called principle of subsidiarity. The subsidiarity principle says that if we can solve something below, let us not do it above. That means if anything can be decided by the body below us, let's let him decide and let's not worry about it for him. And what the mayor takes can be decided by an authority below us, even an authority that enjoys greater trust than we do, and that is the municipal council. The Municipal Council elects the mayor, elected people, municipal representatives, elects the mayor, as well as - Mrs Vildumetzová, Mrs Governor and President of the Regional Association through the President - such as the Regional Council or the City Council appoints the head of the school. These are also elected people, city councils or regional councils who appoint the head of a school or hospital director, as well as elected representatives elect the mayor or deputy mayor. And in one case, we say "let's make it 0.4," and in other cases it doesn't concern us because they're not the elected representatives? Of course, they are elected representatives in the sense that they are elected by elected representatives, in one case a city council or regional council, and in one case a regional council or city council. So the argument that they are two different groups, the director of the hospital, the principal of the school, the director of the museum, the mayor, the deputy mayor or the mayor is completely odd, pointless, irrelevant. But the main thing I wanted to say is that, for God's sake, if 66% of the people trust the council, let's leave it to them if their mayor, when he's also a senator or a MP, is to take 60 percent, 40 percent, 70 percent. He can be unrelaxed, he can negotiate with the D.A. and then it can be so that it is to the satisfaction of the place where he operates. And let's apply the public interest where it really is supposed to work, because otherwise it's with the mayor of God's gift and otherwise it's with Mayor Brno. And it could be different. And for God's sake, let's leave it to the deputies! We're running around with the principle of subsidiarity, so let's not apply it and let's not do it, I repeat, from the representatives of the regions and communities that more people trust than us, fools, and let's not solve for them the things that they can solve. And let's not make fools of the elected mayors and the captains. The Governor herself said you'd figured it out. She figured it out, but the way she wants to take care of everyone else who doesn't know how to handle it as well as she does, because they're probably not morally mature, so it needs to be settled by law. For God's sake, let's leave it to them! The Governor's got it all figured out, and he's taking 0.4. Mr. Kupka's got it all figured out differently. Someone else figured it out again. It's solvable from the position of the man's decision and the position of the council. Yet we as the wisest of all, or I apologize, you, Chamber of Deputies, because the Senate rejected it, you want to decide for them. [[Member Stanjura has an objection from the bench.]] Part of the Chamber of Deputies, I apologise to President Stanjur through Mr President, ODS I know that for this nonsense, which limits the powers of representatives and the freedom of decision-making of elected representatives, she did not vote. So that's the first thing I wanted to stress. We're dealing with a solution. Captain Vildumetzová is proof of this, other people are proof of it, but we still think that it would not be possible without us, even if we have less confidence, or you have less confidence, or some of you have less confidence than those who could and often also make decisions about it. Now the second thing - the illogicality. What's the primary problem, please? Does it primarily bother people that they take two salaries, two rewards, or does it primarily bother them that they can't make two positions? I think that if there's anything that should bother us, and if I go along with this logic, we should be bothered that someone's doing two things and they're not able to make it. And I would understand if I didn't agree that someone was saying, "It's not possible to do two functions, the position of mayor and MP, both full-time and full-time, let's ban it." We can do that. I can understand that. I wouldn't agree with that, but that makes sense, because we're gonna say we can't make it. A day would have to be 36 or 48 hours. But to tell him to do the two functions, to accumulate the political power, that doesn't bother us, to have it, but let's give him 1.4 pay for it, that doesn't make any sense. That's a completely stupid restriction on some economy, on some money that he can come up with if I go overboard in a completely different way, and the essence, if that's what you're dealing with, isn't what you're dealing with. The essence of this thing is that someone does more things than time is enough to deal with it at all. The only way to do this is to say: let's give him 0.4 - but the fact that he is left with the accumulation of power, that he is left with the accumulation of political functions, is not to worry about that at all. So we're actually, or you're, excuse me, the plaintiffs shot a goat and we say, okay, let's do it like this, it's okay. On the contrary, even in the explanatory memorandum, it says that sometimes the transfer of experience - that is, what the mayors learn and then apply in the Chamber of Deputies - is useful, that it does not really matter. I think it's all head-to-head. Now I'm going back to the co-op again. I've explained this before. Concourses are far from merely for Members and Senators and Mayors and Vice Mayors. They're with the hospital directors, the school directors, the museum directors, the heads of different departments. These are all people who are appointed by self-government, not that they aren't. I'm not talking about private businessmen. I am talking about people who work in public institutions and are put into them, in these positions, elected city representatives, mostly councils or elected regional representatives, usually regional councils. I think these are absolutely fundamental things, and it's incomprehensible to me why we're trying to go somewhere where we can deal with this today. As for the matter of the matter which the Governor said here, in the case of the Sports Support Act, it is given by law that if someone is the President of the National Sports Council, that he can no longer receive the salary of a Member, here I am sorry one thing, and that is that when we pointed out in the Senate that we did not receive this answer. I don't know if the Governor kept it to herself so she could tell us all the way here, or if she didn't know it at the time - both aren't fair. Even the fact that she kept it to this point, or that she didn't know it, it's not fair, so it's ignorance, I'm sorry, I would say that if someone was unprepared, it's not fair, so I'm releasing the schizophrenia. On the other hand, at least the fact that the Governor did not talk about this in the case of the Senate means that when the first vote was taken in the Chamber of Deputies, she was unaware that it was resolved by some other law, and I very much doubt many others of you that you were aware that a law was being addressed, that, at the same time, the President of the National Council for Sport and, at the same time, a Member cannot take two salaries, one minister and another Member. [[17,00 hours]] So much for the beginning of me at this point. In the event of a debate, I will then comment on some of the things that have been said here. But to begin with, I consider it sufficient to explain why the Senate proposed to reject the law. I beg you very much to support the Senate's proposal and actually to take care of the things that are in the Parliament of the Czech Republic and not to worry about the things that regional or municipal councils can decide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u9	Thank you, Mr. Senator Vystrčil. Before I open the debate, I ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee wants to comment on the resolution of the Senate, in this case it was Mr Ivan Bartoš. No, he doesn't want to express himself. I'm opening the debate. President Michálek is entered in the debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to wipe the old wounds completely, because the debate has been held here several times very thoroughly, so I would just sum up. We have initiated this adjustment to finally have a system, because we think it should be transparent, that one politician should not take two salaries. I think it's clear to every citizen. They have it in other countries. In the UK, for example, when you sit in two parliaments, you don't take two full salaries either, but it's running down to a percentage. So it's not something we'd invent here in the Czech Republic. I think that if we leave it on the free market, that everyone will do it any way they want, then unfortunately there will be accumulation in some cases. So I think it's right for there to be rules. Our proposal was wider, covered by accumulation as well as other functions. Unfortunately, the proposal failed. So, of course, we will support the new proposal that we are also presenting together. I'd like to stand up for some mayors here. I don't think it's right to talk here about banning mayors from sitting in a chamber of parliament. I wouldn't mention that at all. I certainly wouldn't allow it as an alternative. I'm glad some mayors are sitting here, even if we, as a party, have a different opinion, and we have some rules for the cumulation. But on the other hand, it can enrich the view when some political parties have it that way. But at the same time, there should be no accumulation of two full salaries. So that's the opinion of the Pirates' MP. And so we will also vote to defend the original proposal of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u11	Thank you. Mr Adamec will now be speaking in the debate. Mr. Birke will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government - yes, three - colleagues, I will be very brief, I will be without emotion. [[The speaker looks around, Minister Schiller, Minister Dostálová and Minister Zaorálek are in the government bench]] I think the debate has already been held here. However, it does not give me, I have to go back to it and I must say that I have long considered whether or not to join the debate, but I want to tell you that I am not in conflict of interest. I'm one of the 40 mayors here in the House. And let me put it this way. During the period of mayorship - now it is the twenty-first year, the sixth term in the district city, the second largest in the Hradec Králové Region, I was elected three times to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Once in the upper chamber, twice in the lower chamber. And I have to say, I was pretty clear about that from the start. For the first six years as a senator, I gave up my salary for the community. Some say it's impossible. It's okay, of course it's okay. You can do it in different ways. That's how I felt back then. After I got to the Chamber of Deputies, I felt it, but it was my decision, a free decision, that it would be better if I was a loose mayor because it gave me peace. And the idea of some voters sitting in that chair for eight hours, I don't have that kind of idea, but at least I'm at peace at this point in my personal life. I must say that what the pirát presented here at the beginning of this debate was more sympathetic to me. I have to say it out loud. Because they said they were against the accumulation of functions. Yes, I can imagine. Okay. You don't want an accumulation of functions. If Parliament decides, it is clearly given and we have nothing to talk about. But I'm surprised at the developments that Prime Minister Michálek said all of a sudden they're against wage accumulation. I think - not just me, but a number of mayors had to sort it out somehow. And I'm fascinated by this proposal about why it's 40 percent, and if there's no sense in being a loose mayor at the moment, if you're also in parliament, because if you're a loose mayor, then of course the council will approve your salary, but since we have a system that elects the mayor, I can't imagine that the council would vote for the mayor and wouldn't give him the salary he asks for within the legal interval. So I really don't understand right now. I don't know why we're doing this. We're just making ourselves into a little bit of alibis and hypocrites, 'cause each of us has it figured out differently. And I'm saying, very clean would be to say that the accumulation of functions doesn't work. Yes, I know people who can't accumulate functions because they just can't do it, they can't do it, they can't do it. But I know a lot of colleagues who can do it, and they can do it very well. And do you know who's gonna judge that? Just voters. Who else? I don't know, like I'm saying, I've been in parliament three times, or I'm in parliament three times and mayor six times. Voters have decided whether they like it or not. They're the ones who evaluate the job they sent me to the House for. And the way they judge it, they actually decide who they give or don't give to every election. I mean, we're really interfering with something that we shouldn't interfere with. They really didn't. Let's be fair. Either we ban the accumulation of functions with everything - here comparing ministers to parliamentaries... I beg you, ministers who are also members of Parliament, so, of course, in Parliament they do the minimum, because the main use of the work is at the Ministry. And they can vote in plenary here, but that's it. That's why they only have one salary. I understand that. But here it's a very different job - being a municipal representative, mayor, chieftain, and at the same time a Member or senator. And I can tell you that I can. Some colleagues have experience that they can. But you have to have, as they say, balls. It's the only way you're gonna make it. And I say leave it to the voters and leave it to the individual members of parliament who are also municipal politicians, because it is their decision. And I can tell you that life looks very different from you, who are only in parliament, or colleagues of mayors, captains who are not in parliament. It must also be said that it costs something. Which is why it bothers me that we're telling the law here, punishing the mayors, the captains, the successful ones - because what if they come up with too much money? Well, we're in the Czech Republic. Envy above all else. So I have one final thing to say. I found out, and my fellow Member, the unreleased captain, said for herself that there was actually a change, that she had been disindulged - congratulations, you should have done that right at the beginning, and we didn't have to explain terms and impressions here - and that she actually had 40 percent. You can have 60, my colleague, you don't have to be such a populist when the council approves it, I'm telling you quite frankly. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, I know the political distribution here. It also bothers me that most, except for the exceptions, those political groups don't have mayors and captains among themselves, I say, except for the exceptions, and they judge the work of someone they don't know anything about. Ladies and gentlemen, take your wits and let us reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u13	Thank you. Mr Birke will speak in the debate. Mr Jelínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, I will follow up on my previous speaker. I am also mayor - ninth year, third term of the third largest city in the Hradec Králové Region. I am a second year Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And you know who decided that? Voters. Three times in a row in a municipal election. 40 percent. When they wanted to put me on the list - and as they did in some political parties, some of you know it - in an impossible place, eh, I skipped everybody. Why? Because probably me, not probably, but I'm pretty sure the preferential circles of that very city brought me out of that region. [[17.10 hours]] What do I mean? That voters want - they want - I want to be their representative in the Chamber of Deputies. And beware, unlike my previous speaker, yours through Ivan Adamec, I confess, I'm in conflict of interest. Voters have known for nine years that I get two salaries. It's still equal to 40 percent. Everyone knows about me. Everyone. In Náchod, Náchod County, everyone knows I'm getting two salaries. It's also true, and I don't want to talk about whether someone's working better or someone's working harder, if they're handling it, they can't handle it. I'm really not a professional in this regard. It's true you're mayor 24 hours a day. Twenty-four hours a day! Those mayors who know it, you can't turn your phone off. You just have to solve the problem at 3:00 in the morning because you just have an emergency. You're just the mayor 24 hours a day. Those of you who sit here today and are god forbid even mayor of the lower degree than I am, that means the threesomes, that means the two communities, or even the one communities, so let me cut you off a huge proposition, because unlike us, as I am, or even my previous speaker Ivan Adamec, through you, we have the authorities. But those guys on the 1s, they're all on their own on the 2s, only with the accountant lady. My great respect! And these people who get huge support, you want to take that salary? That you're not ashamed! I'm sorry, I'm sorry I am, and I don't want to be emotional. That you're not ashamed! I'm so sorry. Maybe I'm just wondering about myself here, that you actually want to take it from me. Okay. I'm pretty sure I know how it's spread out, and it's most likely going to pass. I'm sure I can handle it. I don't have a problem with it at all. But you know what bothers me? What Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková said, through you, of course, and she said it about three times - that this law is fair. He's not fair! Let's face it. He's not fair. It just isn't fair to the people we talked about, because the mayors have huge support, great support, and how they come to it, and now forgive me, I don't want to act like the classic Čech here, that my goat died and I want my neighbor to die, but I'm just saying, how does a doctor come along, or even a hospital director who certainly sits here? How does the school principal come up with this, who is definitely sitting here, who is paid from the same package, virtually. like I'm being paid. How do you come up with that? You guys okay? You have no problem, but only we, who have more than 60 percent, and thank you, Senator, by your means, for mentioning it here, because we are the most popular craft in this Czech Republic. The most popular craft! And you want to take that away from us? You know, I'm not an envious person. Really, trust me. And I don't like the lowest instincts. As mayor of the city, I just can't afford these things and I don't want them, and I even reject them - envy, anger and the like, the seven deadly sins, but I'll tell you, this is wrong. Bad! You do it by categorizing and making a difference. One last thing. I am sorry that - this would not actually have been the case if Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, through you, had not actually made a promise to the voters that she would not accumulate functions. That's the whole problem. On the basis of her promise, she had to come up with a law because she didn't have that instrument. I am sorry, Madame, by your means that I have to say this on a microphone, but it is true. It's true, and that's why you caused this thing that's here today! Let's put it this way. That's reality! [[A round of applause for ČSSD Members and also from the right.]] If you take away, or me, the mayor of the third largest city, forty percent, I'm sure I'll survive, I have no problem at all. But who's next? Will it be you, school directors? Hospital wardens? Let's keep our fingers crossed so it doesn't happen. Please vote with reason and reject this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u15	Thank you. There will now be factual comments. First Mrs Ožanová and then Mr Blažek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u16	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for me this is about an angle. I'm also the mayor, so I joined the mayor's block. You know, I'd be ashamed to take two salaries. So let me put it simply: I have a Member's salary and three tenths of the mayor's salary, because they just consider it right and moral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u17	Thank you. Mr Blažek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up with my colleague Birke. Some Friday I think it was when I left Prague, and there was an interview at Radiožurnál by our colleague Vildumetzová with an editor, and she kept asking her one question over and over again: You promised that you would not have two functions, and you failed. And our colleague resisted by not stockpiling salaries. But legal safeguards against two and three functions being performed are not to accumulate salaries, but not to accumulate power. If there's half a salary and half a salary, it still doesn't mean there's not too much power in one hand. I understand, it's the voters' responsibility. This means that voters need to evaluate, this colleague of ours belongs to this whole power in the region or more power in the region, but that, of course, does not justify you at all, my colleague, just because you have not fulfilled your electoral promise, in an incredibly tabloid way, reading some salaries here and making your own hypocrisy a virtue. The most awful thing is, if we're here to read who's taking, and if you're calling on your side of the fourth prize group inn, I wish you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u19	Mr Adamec will make a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to say to Madam Mayor Ožanová through you - this is not about the point of view. That's just how you did it. Many of us do it the exact same way, but voluntarily. If you have three tenths, four, five, six, it's your decision under a valid law, and if someone is just free of 100 percent, it's also just within the law. Of course, we all have some attitude about this, but I don't see why we should set a standard by law, some percentage rate to show everyone how greedy we are and we do it for money and we don't do it for people! This is wrong, isn't it? That's the right point of view! And I wish you to vote with us, because otherwise as mayor, I don't know what you're gonna say to those people in the village.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u21	Thank you. President Stanjura will now speak with priority for the debate and Mr Jelínek will be signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u22	I shall begin by pushing my fellow Member Ivan Adamec. Ostrava-jih is a really big village. I really have to say that. However, back to the matter. If I wanted to be supportive of the petitioners and supporters, I'd say they were led by pride. Pride! And if I wasn't helpful, I'd say they're being led by arrogance. And you can all choose whether it's pride or arrogance to tell the deputies how they can reward their mayor or deputy mayor, their captain or deputy chief. It doesn't apply to the state budget. It's city or municipal council or county expenses. Why do political parties put successful mayors on their ballots, such as the House, into the Senate? Let's ask ourselves, why do political parties often nominate these people there? Because they're not stupid, and they know they're people with voter support. And in every election, even in the Houses, where we have a good mayor, and he's not running, we have a better result than the average in that village. That's true in every election. And I think that goes for every political party. If you have a good mayor, even if he's not running, your party will succeed better in the election than the Republic average of the particular party. Then why did we choose our fellow mayor to experiment? [[17.20 hours]] I'm proud to have six club members in the club who won both rounds of municipal elections last year - the voting people and the coalition negotiations. Because many of us know that these municipal elections or even regional elections have two stages. First of all, they add up the votes. Rarely, the honor of light exceptions, when the winner has most of the seats. This also happens, but very often coalitions have to be negotiated. So the mayor has to show a sense of cooperation, respect for those who have failed so well, and create a functional majority. And we're changing the rules of the game in the middle of the election. No, wrong. Not us. You guys are changing the rules of the game in the middle of your term. And I won't look for motivation. I was talking about it at first, second, third reading, and I'm not gonna say it again. Let's ask ourselves a question. Does the Czech Republic need this law? Answer. Honest, very simple. To the first good. He doesn't! He doesn't. Or do you think there are stupid voters in Libeznice, in Polička, in Prague 2, in Uherské Hradiště, in Plzeň, in Trutnov? And that's why we're voting for colleagues? And that's why my colleagues won because there are stupid voters? And they need the law to know who to vote for and what reward they're supposed to have, these ladies and gentlemen who win the election? I don't think so. That's why I'm talking about pride or arrogance. That's all it is. A lot has been said by the Vystrčil. I want to say to the others who will vote in favour and maybe have a different job than a member of parliament, whether the upper or lower chambers, you're lucky we're not like you. Because logically, we'd be reaching for everyone who takes public money. But we're not like that. We're not gonna point at you and you and you. That's what Mr. Birke said. But that would be logical. Why choose from those who take public money for two functions or for three functions, only one part. And the others don't bother us. I don't understand. And very successful people. We're going to be on the list again in our primaries, because our electors know that, once again, they're giving people who trust voters. Because the political party logically seeks success in elections, and for a good programme it also needs people who have the support of voters. And what you're trying to say by this bill is that the voters are stupid. Everyone I spoke of, and I have named cities there, and I will name them by name, met in the election campaign that their opponents warned the voters: Attention, attention, they accumulate money, they take two salaries. Each of them - ask them - who used all of the political competition. And wonder for the world, the voters still elected them. They won the election. Wonder the world. Yet they found coalition partners who appreciated what they were doing for the community or the region and arranged a coalition. And now you want to come in the middle of your term and say, "Watch out, they may be good, maybe they have voter support, but we think they're taking power." That's really not nice! And I don't care which of the other Members is taking more public money. I really don't care. If the voters sent them here, everyone has respect because everyone got the voter support. Otherwise, he wouldn't be sitting here. And when Mr. Birke spoke of his case, I... Ivan Adamec also came here for the first time from an impossible place. And the voters knew he'd take two salaries, if necessary, and they didn't deal with it. They addressed a simple question: Is he a person who will represent our interests well? Or isn't he the person who represents our interests well? And they answered a positive question: Yes, this is the person we think will defend our interests well. In the upper chamber, I would say that the case of successful mayors is even more frequent in percentage terms than in the lower chamber. And there's a direct choice. And yet these mayors are winning the election. And it's on many sides, it's not just us. But almost all of you have a colleague like that. I was debating with the senator for the Senate District of Bruntál, who is from the government movement YES, and he says to me, "You spoke about me in plenary." You said I took three salaries out of public money. I say yes, Senator. But I didn't suggest you take less money. I was just pointing out the injustice that the petitioners were targeting someone, the mayors, the deputy mayors, the captains, and they weren't targeting anyone. I don't envy your salary. And who named him in that position when they're county hospitals? The county council. They were elected politicians. Well, we were. So what's the difference? Even the mayor has a higher mandate than the hospital director, from my point of view, when he got it directly from the voters. Whereas the director of the hospital already got it from the elected ones. But I point out, I'm not suggesting a change. I'm not suggesting that we tell this guy that he's going to be taking 0.4 of the CEO's salary. Or 0.3 if he has two. Or 0.2, make it 0.4. Let us ask ourselves, " Why are we doing this? ' What is the fight against wage accumulation? This has no meaning in Czech. My colleague, Mr Blažek, spoke of this. Cumulation of power, we can talk about that. That's what Mr. Senator Vystrčil up. Yes, in some countries the office of mayor and Member or senator is legally incompatible. But that's another story. This is where we follow up on the saddest traditions. We refer to the successful ones of us - the successful ones of us - and we say to them, "You're successful, so at least we'll take away the 60%." Because it's fair. Who's that fair for? Because the voters are asking themselves a simple question with the mayor, who happens to be an MP or a senator - is he doing the job right or not? Ivan Adamec is the sixth? - the sixth mayor. And he's been with us since 2013. Do you think he'd be mayor if the voters assessed that he wasn't in time and that he wasn't doing it right and that he wasn't doing it honestly? It may happen for the first time that someone defends the mandate, so it just isn't true. Well, let me put it very simply: don't be proud or arrogant, leave it to the voters. They know better than we do who's supposed to be their mayor and what salary they're supposed to have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u23	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Jelínek, I will read the apologies. Due to traffic complications, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day due to negotiations in the electoral region, Mr Jiří Kobza apologizes and Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologises from 17.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Jelínek will now speak in the debate, Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will briefly try to explain the SPD's position on this bill. We had a counter-proposal at the time of the original proposal, where we proposed a zero reward. Not 40 per cent, but a zero reward when the function coincides. I then explained in the debate that, of course, we would rather have an amendment to the Act on Accumulation Functions on the table, so we would certainly very much like to support it. Unfortunately, this amendment is not here and will probably not be coming for a long time, so we decided again why wait some years for the Act on the accumulation of functions to be discussed, and it needs to be used immediately. The zero was not any envy or any other feeling or feeling that these people would receive or not receive this reward. The fact that the current laws of physics do not allow us to be in two places at the same time, perhaps we will agree with that, if we ignore Mr Einstein's theory of relativity. But performing really responsiblely more than one of the functions of either the captain or the mayor, or the MP, in our opinion, is really impossible. Therefore, because our amendment has not gone to zero remuneration for these people who have accumulated functions, we will in any case support at least the 40 percent amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u25	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. First Mr Blažek, then Mr Birke. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to respond to a fellow member of the movement for direct democracy, and now I'm going to make a little bit of a name for it. It's always nice to hear. So you're for a direct democracy, but if those citizens happen to want their mayor to be an MP at the same time, he'll take it by law. That's absolutely against everything you're saying. We will regulate people so that some things simply cannot be chosen by their own votes, because we will wisely ban them here. And whether the law is fair or not. Please, what's fair about one candidate promising not to do two functions together and then fail? And in order for her to evolve, we're gonna ban it for everyone. What's fair about that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u27	Mr Birke, with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u28	Thank you for the floor. I will also try to respond to my previous speaker from the SPD movement. Three notes. First remark. I forgot to say that in my opening words. Of course, in terms of taking two salaries, as mayor of the city, you represent some board or supervisory board because you own some stock cards or an esero. Well, I don't get any pay. That's for a. B, I'm sorry, but I'm an MP. I don't even have a job as a boarder here. I don't have a function. And the last thing I want to say to you. I'm not going to name it, but I was very amused when we were breaking up on vacation, and I heard colleagues say, "I'm going to the cottage, I'm going to the sea, I'm going to Greece." So you know where I went? Let's get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u29	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek will speak in the general debate. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I am not in this conflict. I have never had two posts, unless I count a member of the government, and I did not take the salary of a Member here because it is incompatible. So this isn't really about me. I've never taken two vacant functions. I've always been a member of the other institutions. And when Ivan Adamec asked here that he didn't understand and why it is, it was answered here. After all, there was a promise that functions would not accumulate, and that is even the wish of the Prime Minister. He said: we do not want our MPs and the captains to accumulate functions. Turns out she took it to heart, as far as I know, one of the captains. And then it was dealt with by the pirát as well, and from them it seems hypocritical to me, who, as it was said here - if you do not want to accumulate functions, and that was said here, let's talk about the function of the governor - where I would understand it, because the captains are really very important people and in crisis management, like the mayors, they have a huge responsibility on the whole region. I would like to compare that being the governor is at the level of being a member of the government in terms of responsibilities and possibilities within the region. She's a very strong person. That's where I'd understand. But if the mayor of a small village is in that situation, it's incomparable. I'd understand if the chieftain wanted to solve her situation, and if she wanted to remain the captain, then let her cut her salary like she did, that's okay. She has that possibility, and she said so herself. But why is he dragging the mayor into this? Well, it could only have been for the authorities, since we're gonna take it that way. But it has been made clear here, and it is true - everyone can do it according to current legislation. But what I'm sorry about the Pirates, and I think it's hypocritical - because there's no restriction on the accumulation of functions, there's no restriction on the accumulation of functions, there's no prohibition on any function, they can continue to exercise it. We will only punish them by having smaller salaries, and many of them actually perform their functions as unreleased. That means we've been through a three-reading circle here. It came to the Senate. Now we have it back in the House, and it's basically pointless. We will, in turn, indulge the rule of law with something that is solvable under current legislation, for one or more people who want to resolve their personal situation. I'm really sorry. And another thing. Of course, voters - so voters may have the right to decide who they want or not, since we're already treating it this way. And after I learned the new one. I was wondering why it was 40 percent. Why isn't it 15? Or why it's not 72? Because it's fair? Well, it's not fair, because really, as it was said here, we could say from other public money that it's incompatible. Finally, what is fair about the fact that the regional council may not have the director of an organization set up by the region, but that is possible at municipal level? What kind of justice is this? Of course, when I'm head of technical services or a nursing home or a forest and I do events, I have a much easier starting position. While on the edge, when I'm head of a museum or a grammar school setting up a county, I can't sit in that council. Let's worry about this, it's unfair. But why 40 percent? Well, that's what I learned. Because the Governor has reduced her reward to 40 percent so that everyone else can have it. At the same time, she could have done it and done it according to current legislation. That means this law isn't about not congruent functions. To prevent accumulation of zero functions. Second thing. We're dealing with something that can be dealt with under current legislation. A long time ago, we could have had important laws that really burn citizens. Thirdly, it is disrespect for voters who can decide who they want to vote for or not. And there are mayors or captains who say, yes, I take two salaries, and I think it's not enough for the job I do. - I'll take that as a bonmot. But the voters hear it, and they're gonna vote for him anyway? I think they know he's working there. That means we could have saved a lot of time, a lot of taxpayers' money. And maybe we'd save taxpayers a lot more money if we didn't deal with it here at all, discussing what really interests and burns citizens. Instead, we're dealing with something here that we want to work out our promise that neither the movement nor the politicians have fulfilled, and instead we're dragging in the mayors who are doing a job that their voters can appreciate. And all we can do is achieve injustice. This isn't justice. And I don't take two salaries. I don't care. But this is a thing I really hate. That's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u31	Thank you. Members of the Lubomír Španěl and Jan Hrnčíř apologize from 17.45 until the end of the meeting day for reasons of work. Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark will now follow. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to my colleague, Mr Bělobrádek, through you, who has mentioned the pirát here several times, so that I may respond. Pirates have run for elections to reduce the accumulation of functions and reduce the accumulation of salaries from public posts. So we're doing our election program here, so don't blame us for hypocrisy here for doing our election program. First of all. Two. No pirate accumulates two loose functions. So we've already set our own example, and we're willing to follow the instincts of this law. Three. We would like this law to be more stringent, we would like to extend it, so that it applies to municipalities and regions among themselves, so that the principle does not apply in general. We can also talk about the accumulation of full-time employment in the public sphere and the functions of politicians. However, at the same time, we want something to go through. And when we see how the ODS, the ČSSD and the other parties are doing it, when we see how the Senate is doing it, we see this as a compromise that has a chance of success and we say - at least something. And the last point is why we're going the way of reducing the accumulation of salaries and not the incompatibility of those functions. We think that by limiting the accumulation of those salaries, the motivation will decrease to accumulate those functions, and the phenomenon will decrease globally within the Czech Republic. We can also talk about incompatibility, but we really wanted to start with measures that are not a ban, a command, a regulation, as the right here often says, but which simply motivates people to voluntarily limit the accumulation of functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u33	Thank you. Mr Klaus will now make a point of fact and will follow Mr Birke, Mr Adamec and Mr Výborný's factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u34	Dear colleagues, I have been bored here for about an hour with this completely unnecessary law, where only everyone beats in the breasts, how they do not accumulate functions and what they do, so only when I have the floor, Members of the Tricolor have no functions at all. As soon as they moved into the movement, they abandoned all functions, sometimes involuntarily. So we're the most moral of all of you. Continue this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u35	Mr Birke, with a factual remark. He's jamming his point of order. Mr Adamec will use it. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u36	Yes, I will, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I must repeat once more, my fellow Members, that Mr Ferjenčík really amused me, Mr Member, to be absolutely precise, so as not to offend him. You really think politics is made for money? You really think so? If that's what you think, you shouldn't be here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u37	I merely remind you that Members need to be addressed through the President. President Excellent with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I want to de facto repeat to your colleague Mr Ferjenčík what Mr Adamec said here. It sounds to me like - don't be mad at me, my colleague - a huge disrespect. Disrespect for voters comes first. After all, the voter knows who he's voting for when he elects the mayor who may have been representing him on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for several periods. And above all, it's disrespect for those who sit here, and in those positions, be it Mr. Mayor Birke, Mr. Mayor Adamec and others. They don't do that for money. If someone lives in a fantasy and creates an atmosphere in society that we're all sitting here for money, I say no for myself. Of course, it can't be ruled out that some of these people are here, but I really think that's an outrage to pass this on to public opinion. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u39	President Bartoš, with a factual remark, is registered, then Mr Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u40	I would just like to respond briefly, through the President, to my two previous speakers. Mr Ferjenčík did not point to anyone, he did not push anyone that there were some financial interests of the mayors who were elected. Otherwise, if we're talking about respecting voters' votes, I'm concerned that Mr. Adamec is suddenly telling Mr. Ferjenčík that he shouldn't be sitting here. He was elected by the same vote. If in your case it was knowing that you had more functions, let's take it that way. If it was any other motivation in the case of Mr. Ferjenčík, for example, what was the clearly declared program, let us leave it at that, please. If in one part you are talking about hypocrisy and respect for the votes of the voters, in the second sentence, please do not contradict Mr. Ferjenčík when you accuse him or you say he should not have the right to sit here because he is implying something. We had a number of examples in the lower areas of politics, where accumulations took place, where some politicians took, for example, 300, 350 thousand, c'est la vie. And don't tell me that for a number of people who went into politics, it wasn't a financial motivation that it was really some kind of philanthropy. I went into politics because I saw a lot of people who weren't really victims, but it was just a way up, a way to power, a way to some financial benefits. And look at the politicians that we've been watching since, like, nine years since the revolution, how they're now sitting down, what kind of companies they're sitting in. So I don't know if I'm going to have the property of some politicians in x years of politics, some of them are no longer among us, let them be, who have just miraculously become rich by coming into politics. Well, it wasn't from the MP's salaries, it was out of power. So financial motivation for a number of politicians over the past 30 years has been a completely dominant motivation. That's all I wanted to say. And please let my colleague Ferjenčík tell his opinion, which I think was communicated in a very correct manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u41	Thank you. Mr Birke, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u42	Thank you. Mr Bartoš, by your means, you are, of course, right. Anyone who's here is elected properly, there's no need to discuss whether anyone here is less or more. Two hundred Members and Members, excuse me, Members and Members, have been elected and have their mandate, there is no need to discuss this. However, I listened very carefully to Mr Ferjenčík, through you, and I was very interested in one thing. You know, that's the attack on it-- I'm not talking about the accumulation of functions-- that's what we're saying here that this law doesn't even work out. We're talking about this, it's just normal human envy. It's just an attack on the worst human impulse. You know, I was listening - now I'm sorry - but one policy before 1989, well, it reminds me a lot of this debate. In that memorable speech, he said, "Look at Zagor, three hundred thousand they're taking." That's what it looks like today's debate. Millions take. I don't know exactly what the politician's name was anymore, I don't even know what that speech looked like, but you all remember him. It was very smiling. It reminds me a lot of debate in this House. It's an attack on the worst thing they're looking at, and everyone's saying, "Look at this Birke guy, he's a criminal, he's taking two salaries! That's scary. I repeat one more time. Twenty-four hours I've been there at City Hall. I think I do. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u43	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u44	Thank you for the floor. I do not wish to be an attorney for my colleagues from the Hradec Králové Region, but Mr. and Mayor Birke, when he went to be mayor, he went with a salary substantially lower than what he would have in the commercial sphere. Very well, then punish him. If he wasn't the mayor of Náchod - and he's a great mayor, even though he's from a rival party, even though he sent me into opposition in the first period - he's a great mayor. And I'm not ashamed to say it here, even though it's from social democracy. But you're gonna punish him for going to Náchod. Náchod thrives under his leadership, and you tell him he went there for the money. Well, congratulations. [[A note from the diaper.]] Well, not explicitly, of course, but where did that come from? You said by cutting our salaries, we'd get them out of office. I think there are some logical procedures. Second thing. I don't want to stand up for myself, or I'm not an attorney or Ivan Adamec. Pn didn't say you had no right to be here. He said it a little different. No doubt you have that right, but the question is, how do you imagine why these people are here? So they're all dirty suspects, and they're all going into politics because they're after money, and by cutting their money, you're gonna get them out of there. With the SPD, I get it there, because they don't have many captains and mayors, so it doesn't burn there, so it doesn't flow from someone else's blood. I just want to say that I was the only Member who voted not only not to increase our salaries by the original amount, but I voted not to increase our salaries by 8 percent. So in my case, that's not really the point. But I am convinced that we must tell each other what happened. And from my colleague Ferjenčík, through you, I heard over there in that bench - we're trying to prevent the accumulation of functions. You've actually said it here indirectly, so the accumulation of functions is there. And that you had both in the program, that's probably true, I don't know your program in detail. But anyway, I'm telling all the citizens here that it has nothing to do with the accumulation of functions, and you're definitely not going to stop the accumulation of functions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u45	Thank you. Mr Bendl will now speak in the general debate. President Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have not participated in this debate completely since the beginning of this bill, but I have to say at least one of my own experience here because I ran for mayor for the second time, when it was the second time in Kladno, for the first time in 1994, for the second time in 1998, and although I received the most preferential votes and we won the election, I gave up my chance to be mayor and became a Member. I chose myself on the basis of my decision to remain a Member, and I will no longer be mayor. Likewise, in 2000, when I was a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and was elected governor, I then gave up my parliamentary mandate and did so-called full-time governor of the Central Bohemia Region for two parliamentary periods, because I thought that this could not be prosecuted physically, because it is true that in municipal but also regional level, if you want to do something properly, no one will forgive you there. This isn't about whether you're doing 70 percent, 60 percent or 30 percent for salary. The point is, you have to do 100%, or the voters will just reward you for it. [[17.50 hours]] For anyone who's the mayor here, it's also true, it's been said here several times that nobody's going to do the job for him. The mayor is responsible for everything, regardless of whether the council decides one way or another, and it may be inconsistent with what the mayor thinks. The mayor has to work it out. That you want so-called. Motivating the mayors, especially the successful ones, so that they do not become Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, is, according to my deep conviction, based on a game of envy in the case of Pirates. I think you know very well that the voter will just hear about it. But what I'm saying is that you're touching the successful ones who would have something to say right here, and they can transfer what's happening at municipal level to the benches. Perhaps it would be more useful if there were more mayors here. In the case of colleagues from YES - I think they're looking for an alibi. That he was looking for an alibi for his promise not to accumulate functions, to apologize for something. And the fact that they're suitable for voters. Look, they're gonna stay in those positions, they're gonna be mayors or chieftains and MPs, but look, we took 60 percent of their paycheck, so they're gonna have to do 100 percent, but we took 60 percent of their paycheck. It is a pity that you think that way because in the Czech Republic envy is often made on roses. And at the moment when we play with this phenomenon in a very false way to my mind, we are not doing well and it will eventually turn against all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u47	It will be followed by factual remarks. Mr Birke will first speak with a factual remark, then Vice-President of the House of Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u48	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, colleague, to read you something now. May I have your attention, please, because this is just an incredible thing. We are having quite a serious, very decent debate here, and your colleague Ferjenčík wrote this on Facebook: Do you know that Mr.Birke from ČSSD takes two salaries? He says everyone knows. Yes, sweetheart, not a smiley face. Are you normal, Mr. Ambassador, through you? [[He speaks in a very strong voice.]] That's exactly your policy. I'm talking about you attacking the lowest instincts, which is envy and anger! Let me tell you something. In the 50 years I've been in the world, I've had to do all my own work. When I got up for work at 3:30, you were still walking around the yard calling it a dick, like a little kid. Then what are you telling me? Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u49	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u50	Thank you. It didn't have to be, the applause. However, I would like to comment, through Mr President, on the speaker, fellow Member Bendl, who has said something about how we intend to do it here. In general, I don't like it when someone's talking about something or what you think someone's thinking. I've got the motivation a little backwards. I don't want to discourage the successful mayors from joining the Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, I am pleased if the successful mayor or the deputy or the chieftain enters here and brings his knowledge with him, but I think that the successful should then focus primarily on the work here and the mayor or the representation gradually pass it on. Of course, we can disagree whether it's my business or not, but I argue that the motivation is the other way around. It's not about dissuading successful mayors to enter here, but it's actually about pulling or handing over their mayor's office or somebody else's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u51	Thank you. President Vít Rakušan apologizes for today's meeting from 17.30 to 19.30 due to the hearing. President Kalousek will now speak in the general debate, Mr Bauer will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My previous speakers felt it necessary to stress here whether or not they were taking or not taking two salaries. Some even need to stress on the networks which of their colleagues is involved. I've never taken two salaries and I don't, but of course it concerns me, because, as we know, I'm responsible for everything. I was excused in the third reading of this bill for health reasons, so I did not vote for it, but I supported it more or less at first reading in my speech. Since I was mentioned here in this debate, I wanted to state my position on the vote. Indeed, at the beginning of this parliamentary debate, I was inclined to support this bill, because two full-time professions simply cannot be done. We all know that, and if it is paid from public sources, this should perhaps be taken into account in some way in view of the workload. However he performed these functions of course not only about working time and the number of hours worked. It is also a question of responsibility taken over, not only political but also material and, unfortunately, very often criminal. And none of you will take that responsibility regardless of the amount of salary you pay, and it is perfectly okay that, with that responsibility, you are also given the appropriate amount of remuneration relating to that function. It may be much fairer than if we were to introduce public officials to hookers, and they would keep their cards, and they would be paid by working hours. I'm afraid it wouldn't have the right efficiency. And with regard to the degree of responsibility that those people who have been given voter confidence are willing to take on, and we all know someone in our neighborhood who has been punished, even in front of the prosecutor, so I have changed my position and I will not support the bill as it is. At the same time, not that I would like to discuss individual names that take or do not take two salaries, or accumulate, or accumulate functions, but perhaps a polite reminder from the pirate party, which is beating in the breast, that in their case it is out of the question, I believe that Senator Chmelová was a senator who was also elected as a pirate party, and I think she is the mayor of Prague 10. [[Reptiles: Unreleased.]] But you guys here said that you don't accumulate those functions in any way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u53	The debate must take place in a proper manner, Mr. Ambassador. If you want to sign in, you have the option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u54	There's absolutely no remorse on my part. I just wanted to remind you of that for the record. I wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bartoš, after whom Mr Ferjenčík, will speak first with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u56	Only briefly to Senator Chmelová. She was elected as a candidate for the Vlasta movement with the support of the Pirates only an unreleased mayor and is at the KDU-ČSL Club in the Senate. It is not a member of the pirate party, and therefore, it is not even the pirate party that is responsible for the dictation that Mrs Chmelová should do. We asked her not to be relaxed, so it did. This is about as much as you can demand as a support party over a candidate who is of good quality and who you support because it brings an important program to the Senate, even though it ends up in the KDU-ČSL Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u57	Mr Ferjenčík withdrew the factual comment. With a point of fact, the President is signed in Excellent. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u58	Thank you for the floor. I'll just fill in for President Bartoš. That's right. Renata Chmelová is a senator who was elected to this movement. He's at our senator's club. And by the way, if she was so incompetent because of some accumulation of functions, a salary, or I don't know what we're debating here, she probably wouldn't have been elected again by voters in her district, and again she wouldn't have been mayor of the Vlasta movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u59	Thank you. Mr Jan Bauer will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u60	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, at least those of you who have not yet decided how you will vote not to support this bill. You know, I don't think it's polite or appropriate to repeat any of my 20-year community or mayor's experiences here, but I think it's more like my personal advantage for serving as a Member. On the contrary, the many years of experience tells me that on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we are generally faced with good bills, with bad bills, and then very often I see legislative marketing here. And I really consider this bill, personally and on the basis of my many years of experience, to be a bad bill, but above all, to be a complete legislative marketing, because - and it has been said many times today - this legislative marketing is doing nothing but actually calling on the darkest human qualities, which in this case is envy. And that's why I can't relate to this bill. The other thing that really bothers me, and I'm going to compare it to a football game. Just if he's gonna pass, you're gonna change the rules of the game, just like football or hockey, in this case in one quarter of the term, which is just unacceptable to me. This is not the way the laws should be done; this is not how they should be approved. While I was still acting as mayor, I actually personally went through many dozens of negotiations with the German mayors, and compared to, for example, the French mayors, and they actually apply, for example. With our nearest big neighbor, that the Němec are forbidden by law, accumulation of functions is not possible. On the other hand, those mayors have their advantages within various pension benefits after the mandate is over, which in our case is out of the question in the Czech Republic or in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, the French model is such that the Francouz allow the accumulation of functions. Neither of those states ever talked about whether it was money or not. The Francouz allow the cumulation and, on the contrary, for the larger and smaller cities, it is an extraordinary honor that the mayor of the city can work on the national council in France. These are simply the experiences of two major states that have a long-standing democratic tradition for some time. This law does not really solve what you may have wanted to discuss at the beginning, which is a cumulation of office, and it does nothing but cry out for human envy, which is unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u61	We are continuing the debate. Mr. Vystrčil Vystnutý will now appear, followed by Mr. Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u62	Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer be here to repeat the things that have been said and have been divorcing in various ways, I dare say, the figures that I presented in my opening speech. I'm just going to allow myself a little bit of a summary of what I'm getting from the things that have been said here. First of all, it turns out that we're discussing a law we don't need here. If you're asking for evidence, the evidence is sitting right here in front of us. Some have already solved the matter themselves, and they have agreed with their councils or their consciences, and they have resolved the matter in a way that is correct in terms of their income. And as for the continuance of the function, as was said here, that doesn't solve the law at all. The second thing that follows from this debate is that those who are less trusted by voters want to order those whom voters believe more, what and how they should do. That seems kind of weird to me, too, and I don't think we should act like this, that we should leave it to the voters who believe them more, and these are the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, and the city or the regional council. If you want evidence, it's even the fact that voters trust city officials twice as much as you do. Twice as much! 66 percent trust them, 33 percent... [[MP Faltynek off the mic, me. is suspended from the word of you.]] Otherwise, as my colleague, Mr Faltýnek, is speaking to me now, I must say, through the President, that Mr Faltýnek can't even count to a hundred given what he did here for a multiplier. Now the next thing I want to say here, that's the third thing. The law isn't fair. It is not fair because there are mayors who are also senators or MPs doing their job better than those who are not senators or MPs. I know a few of them. And suddenly, some of them are supposed to be limited from above by someone like the Chamber of Deputies, and some of them aren't. I don't think that's right either. We simply should not spread injustice in this country. We should leave it to those who decide and know what they decide. So my conclusion is... One more thing I did, an observation. When I was looking for you, it seems to me that most of you understand and know that this is all nonsense. And because they are bound by various promises or regulations or instructions, they are unable to change their minds and are unable to vote so that the law does not pass, and thus they have not been included in our legal order because we do not need it. So I just want to wish you, for example, the regulations that you have received from your party secretariats, to be able to overcome and vote according to common sense. Because if you are declaring this law and overrule the Senate's veto, then you will vote against common sense, against mayors, against self-government, against the normal functioning of this society, and that is only because at some point it seems advantageous to you. It may bring you one percent, or some of you will be praised for it, but it's not good, because we're narrowing down the maneuver space that we're gonna miss when we need it. And we're teaching citizens that they're not really the ones who are supposed to hear about how it's going to work in this country. You say it's us, we know much better than you do how much money your mayor has to take and how much he doesn't. And that's wrong. We shouldn't be acting like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u63	Thank you. Mr Bendl with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u64	I merely wanted to say, Mr President, that I voted yes in the vote number 183, and I am late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote. I just wanted to write. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u65	Thank you, yes, for the record, you do not question the vote. We're good to go. With another point of fact, Mr Dolínek is signed up, Mr Kupka is entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, Senator, I do not like to do this, and it does not concern the whole of this law, my opinion is a little different from my club, but I will take a vote. I'd just like to ask you and your fellow senators to stop lecturing us on whether or not they're running anybody's secretariats. Senator Láska told the MPs to admit why they wouldn't support the lawsuit against Zeman, otherwise they're cowards. Stop giving us a lot of cowards, stop telling us if we're being run by any secretariats or not. We don't go there to say anything like that. I am very happy to cooperate with you, you know that I praise you in the media, perhaps mostly of all Members, so just please don't express these low emotions here again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u67	Mr Kupka will be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to turn my attention back to the law under discussion. I think there have been a number of strong arguments here about why we should not adopt the law, why it should not apply, that it is, as has been said, the subject of legislative marketing, that it is unfair, that there have been several arguments, that it is retrospective, that it is incomplete, that - as has also been said several times - it is actually against the proper administration of municipalities and cities. We're here mostly trying to figure out why to adopt laws, what we can contribute to the positive. There's hardly anything like that in here. The law really doesn't bring anything positive. Or did you hear something really fundamental in these two or three hours of debate that would change the law in the administration of the Czech Republic? What would he bring to the citizens? Undoubtedly not. [[18.10 hours]] Then there's a good reason to take the law to prevent something negative. Does this law prevent anything negative? Will it stop any evil from happening? Well, certainly not. So, in fact, there is no really good reason to add such a law to the Czech rule of law to anyone. At least there was no strong argument. But we have witnessed one really stupid and evil Facebook status of one of our colleagues. We have certainly strengthened the fact that citizens in politics therefore see nothing nice. If we wanted to contribute to the motivation for people to be interested in politics, to run for local councils and become mayors - because this, by the way, is one of the serious problems of the Czech Republic. In many places, there is no one left to convince him to engage in the administration of the village and go to the mayor. Because it's really not a simple job. So we haven't done anything positive in this regard yet. But now we have one opportunity, and I beg you to consider it well. I think it would be a good opportunity to not really support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-002-005.u69	Thank you. No one else is registered for the debate. Anyone reporting for the debate from the scene? He's not reporting. I'm done with the conversation. Is there interest in final words? Mr. Senator? The rapporteur? They're not interested in final words. I shall call on Members who are not present in the Chamber and we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. Please set the necessary number of votes. Yes, I already did. I will now make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities, as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Coll., on Regions, as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital city of Prague, as amended, according to House Press 273/5." [[municipal establishment]] [[Regional establishment]] There's an application for check-out, I've checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 184, 175 Members registered, for 118, against 32. I state that the bill has been passed. I thank the Senator and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. Now we're going to go with point number
