ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u1	201. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty signed on 6 February 2019 in Brussels /German press 450/ - second reading Please let Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, you have a decision on the adoption of North Macedonia as its 30th member. This is a clear choice for the government, but it is indeed not a formality, which is why I want to remind you of the substantial circumstances of this year on the government's proposal. In June 2018, the governments of Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia concluded a historic Prespan agreement inviting the NATO summit last year in Brussels, North Macedonia, to join the Alliance. The Macedonian Parliament approved constitutional changes on the basis of the Prespan Agreement in January this year, and two weeks later the Greek Parliament ratified the agreement. This has finally blocked the entry of North Macedonia into NATO and the European Union. That is why we welcomed the historic Prespan agreement, which, after almost 20 years, settled the fundamental differences between the two countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can hear the Minister's reasoning. Thank you. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u4	Thank you. This February, existing NATO members in Brussels signed the North Macedonia Accession Protocol, formally starting the process of accession of the country to the North Atlantic Treaty, which is subject to ratification in all Member States. Following the signature of the Protocol, the Republic of North Macedonia has already taken part in NATO negotiations as an invited country, but without the right to participate in decision-making. The government believes that the entry of North Macedonia into NATO will strengthen the Euro-Atlantic anchoring of the country, overall stability and security in the Balkans and the Alliance itself. North Macedonia is already contributing to ensuring our common security by participating in the Alliance Mission Resolute Support in Afghanistan or also supporting the Kosovo Force Alliance Mission in Kosovo. In preparing for NATO membership, North Macedonia has undertaken a number of reforms in the area of rule of law, the functioning of a multi-ethnic society, the fight against corruption and the defence and security sector, and the Alliance is ready to further support it in this reform effort. With its NATO membership, North Macedonia will not only fundamentally strengthen its defence and security, but also its democratic institutions. The accession of a country to NATO is also a confirmation of the continuity of an alliance open door policy and an example for other applicants that membership will take place after the conditions have been met. The decision on new members of the Alliance is always linked to the responsibility of existing members. So far, the accession of North Macedonia has been approved by 21 national parliaments of the Alliance Member States. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approved this protocol on 12 June 2019 and now this decision is also in the hands of the Chamber of Deputies. North Macedonia has sought to join the Alliance since the Bucharest Summit in 2008. We have always supported this, which is why I think it is desirable to finally confirm it now. The entry of North Macedonia into NATO, in my opinion, is the right step. We know that we can no longer be among the first to approve the North-Acedonian accession to NATO, but I believe that we have no reason to be the last existing NATO ally to take this decision in its Parliament. I believe that it will be good if the Czech parliamentary ratification will allow North Macedonia to become a 30th member of the North Atlantic Alliance as soon as possible, in the 20th anniversary of our accession to the 70th anniversary of the founding of NATO, which we commemorated this year in the first half of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u5	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the Foreign Committee was Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. I ask him to justify the committee's resolution delivered to us as House Press 450/1. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House Foreign Committee addressed this press at its 32nd meeting on 5 September and adopted the following resolution: On the Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty signed on 6 February 2019 in Brussels, the House's press 450. After the justification of Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs PhDr Martin Povejšil, Jaroslav Bžoch's intelligence report and the Foreign Committee's debate I. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty signed on 6 February 2019 in Brussels; II. Instructs the Vice-President of the Committee of Mr Jaroslav Bžoch to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. There are two Members registered to it. First, Mr Radovan Vích, followed by Mr Jiří Kobza. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. I would like to say for a very short time my position on the Government's proposal to approve the ratification of the Protocol on North Macedonia's approach to the North Atlantic Treaty. More detailed reasons why our MP will not support this treaty will then be discussed by my colleague Kobza. I would like to say that today, essentially, the North Atlantic Alliance has 29 states, including Albania, and I ask myself that if I look at NATO, I simply cannot answer the question whether NATO still works as it should or only on paper. I mean, basically, Turkey's attitude controlled by authoritarian President Erdogan, who, on the one hand, buys S-400 anti-missile kits from the Russian Federation, and on the other hand, has the ambition to buy American aircraft F-35. Turkey simply wants to become a modern hegemon in this area. [[11.10 hours]] I believe that the adoption of this Protocol of Macedonia, if any, should also be considered in the context of Kosovo's Statute. On the day on which the summit of the Visegrad Four States with the Balkan States takes place in our Republic in Prague, we know that Slovakia has not recognised Kosovo's status, and I believe that there should also be compliance with this within the Visegrad Four, as our position on the Kosovo issue as a state in general. That is why I am not in favour of NATO expanding into unstable states that I do not think are politically or militarily capable of doing so. And I think North Macedonia is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u9	Thank you. Member Jiří Kobza in the debate, followed by Member Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government, I have outlined our position on the adoption of North Macedonia into NATO already during the first reading. Today, I would like to discuss these circumstances a little more closely. Because it is not as simple as it looks at first sight, and we consider it our duty, our Members, to draw attention to all aspects while there is still time. I would like to stress that the position of us, the SPD Members, and the position of the Czech Republic towards the Republic of North Macedonia is and was friendly. We have shown great respect for how she has dealt with the difficult legacy of Yugoslavia's decay and all the peripeties of development in the Western Balkans since then. We also admire its non-negotiable and very specific fight against illegal migration, where it bears the weight of one of the main migration routes. We believe that we have and must help North Macedonia. And in our opinion, we could help her more, more, more and more effectively than we already have. The question is, will this help be our support for her entry into NATO? We have doubts about that. It is worth recalling that the entry of North Macedonia into NATO has not yet ratified more states than the Czech Republic, so our reserved position would certainly not jeopardise the date of entry, because it is not waiting for us. It doesn't just depend on the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic has always treated Macedonia collegially and friendlyly. It was Greece, which for almost 30 years blocked any possibility of joining NATO, and that is why we all welcomed the Prespan Agreement, which was adopted between Greece and Macedonia on a change of name in North Macedonia, which broke through this blockage. However, as I said in my speech during the first reading, in the Greek Parliament, the Prespanish agreement passed by a majority of just three votes. Moreover, it is rejected by roughly half the Greek population, sometimes very emotionally. We know that there were extensive demonstrations at the time of the vote against her in Athens. Macedonian society and political scene are also divided in relation to the Prespan Treaty. The current opposition refers to the treaty as unconstitutional, blocking the parliamentary vote. It is therefore a question of how the opposition will act if it takes over executive power in the future. In view of these circumstances and prospects, it is really difficult to talk about some stability in Greek-Macedonian relations. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] For any alliance there can be nothing worse than tense relationships between its members, especially if they are negatively burdened by historical sentiments and feelings of mutual injustices. We know several such cases in modern history, such as Northern Cyprus, and we know what tension can lead to and how far it can escalate. In that case, the basic idea and purpose of NATO's existence, which is closely linked to trust between partners, would be completely hacked. Mr President, may I have a moment of peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u11	Yes, you're right, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us all hear what Mr Kobza has to say. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u12	Consider the internal situation in Macedonia and its surrounding area. Almost a third of the Macedonian population are ethnic Albánec who do not hide that their long-term goal is not only broad autonomy, but also possible separation from North Macedonia and subsequent connection with Kosovo and Albania and the creation of the so-called Great Albania. And this is not just a verbal declaration. Already in 1992, shortly after the emergence of a separate Macedonia, for example, the radical wing of the Albanian minority organized a referendum in which 90 percent of Albanian residents expressed themselves for independence and declared the illegal autonomous Republic of Ilirida. At the turn of the millennium, Albánec even instigated an armed uprising in the country, which was stopped only with the help of the international armed forces, including NATO. Other riots and ethnic clashes took place between 2012 and 2015, when, among other things, demonstrations in the capital city of Skopje took place in the process of looting and other violence. 22 people died in a gunfight between the armed forces and the police in Kumanov City. And we can recall the relatively recent statement by former Macedonian ex-President Ivanov that the Albanian platform undermines the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Macedonia. According to studies by important balkanologists, such as Přemysl Rosůlek, the Albanian ethnicity is permanently and long-term radicalized from abroad, especially from Kosovo, but also from Bosnia, in the sense of massive Islamization. Literally, it states: "In recent years, increased activity of Wahhabis circles, probably supported by the Middle East, has been recorded between Albánec and Macedonia. " Among other things, it is the indoctrination of the young Macedonian Albánec in religious schools, madrasas, and the exception is not even their participation in fighting on the side of the Islamic State. This may happen in the case of Macedonian NATO membership - and similar experiences are there - another detonation or pretext of regional terrorism or the practice of blood vengeance, when Macedonia will become a member of the enemy alliance, having on the hands of their brothers in the faith, in their eyes a legitimate objective of violent action. Another issue is the possibility that, on the basis of demographic studies over a period of one or two generations of Albanian ethnicity, ethnic conflicts will prevail. Here is a very interesting analysis just in the book Albánec and the Republic of Macedonia named Balkanologist Přemysl Rosůlek. I recommend who cares. It's really worth reading. koneckonců all, even the Prime Minister of North Macedonia, who is here today, certainly remembers the riots in 2017, when the crowd invaded Parliament and the Prime Minister himself was injured at the time. So from the above, it is clear that there is a real possibility of an outbreak of quite serious disputes between NATO Member States, Greece and Albania and the potential North Macedonian Member State. And we are not talking about the possibility of an outbreak of a wider military conflict, in which other regional powers could already be involved, such as Turkey and the like, which has particular interests in this region. In our view, therefore, at least two important parameters are not met for the adoption of North Macedonia into NATO, and this is national stability and stability and security in the nearest region. For this reason, we believe that agreeing to the entry of North Macedonia into NATO would be at least very irresponsible. [[The noise in the courtroom persists.]] [[11.20 hours]] Now let's look from the other side at what joining NATO would mean for North Macedonia. Firstly, there is an obligation to invest two percent of annual GDP in the defence budget, which can be a huge economic burden for North Macedonia with regard to its low population and the economy as well. Mr President, there is really no working here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I ask for peace, so that the Member may continue in a dignified environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u14	It is therefore likely that North Macedonia will not be able or willing to contribute these two percent to NATO's budget. And then it becomes essentially a debt to the US. Secondly, it is highly likely that North Macedonia will be forced to gradually re-arm NATO standards, which is mostly American or Western European military technology instead of the one that has been used so far, and this change will also mean a considerable cost that North Macedonia will have to bear. Thirdly, and this is also our Czech experience, it may happen that NATO membership will mean that its own army will stop protecting its territory as a priority, but, on the contrary, it will invest considerable resources in equipment, equipment and equipment for foreign missions and for the exercises that soldiers will prepare for such missions. North Macedonia can also be called upon to prepare its own territory for the crossings of the Allied armies. This means, for example, the reconstruction and strengthening of bridges and roads, which is also a very expensive issue. We can also count on NATO's efforts to place the base of one of the allied states on the territory of North Macedonia. I think you have an idea which one. Engagement in foreign missions and possible placement of a base in the territory of North Macedonia can, paradoxically, significantly aggravate its security situation. As a result, the citizens of North Macedonia could be threatened by attacks by members at that moment of the contested or occupied state, and its cities may be the primary target for possible strikes by terrorists or avengers from countries such as the Middle East. This is a great risk, especially today, when the crisis of illegal migration to Europe is failing, and when, according to reports and reports, the Bundes Nachrichten Dienst, for example, many jihadists are already moving across Europe within the Schengen area. [[The noise in the courtroom lasts.]] So our recommendation is that North Macedonia should remain in the position of the so-called invited country, which therefore does not have all the obligations arising from NATO membership. This is because we believe that joining NATO would hurt mainly North Macedonia itself, and the serious problems that are now being suppressed in the area and in their home will come to the surface with a much greater impact. We therefore propose that North Macedonia offer wider cooperation in relation to addressing migration crisis issues, as is already happening, namely police cooperation and possibly financing joint projects. It would certainly be a desirable and necessary exchange of know-how and experience in the field of defence. Close cooperation between both our countries in the field of scientific or study projects would also be appropriate. There is much that can improve the coherence of North Macedonia with the Czech Republic and other countries. The V4+ Group is, of course, a very important platform for this cooperation. We have a common historical and cultural heritage and it is appropriate to follow it up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to call on you to be prudent and cautious in voting on the approach of North Macedonia to NATO, because, as I have just said, neither the region nor this country is ready for this in our opinion, and, on the contrary, to focus on how to help them continue and how to deepen our cooperation, because we see in this the priorities of our relationship with North Macedonia. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the right side of the courtroom, from the SPD benches]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u15	Thank you. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg will now appear, and Mrs Černochová will be prepared, who does not exercise the right of priority in this case. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, I can only say thank God that this day has come, that Macedonia really has a chance to join, I hope, the whole Euro-Atlantic structures. Remember, Macedonia was already ready, but then came a senseless Greek veto. Denying someone's name is as senseless as denying the existence of a state in the Western Balkans. But apparently there are some who think they can afford anything. But thanks to the Makedonec retreat, all the obstacles have been removed. But that long time, when Macedonia was almost in limbo, it damaged Macedonia terribly. Let us remember, at that time, the national disputes arose, also a regime that was not entirely democratic. And all this has made life in Macedonia very difficult. I hope that all of this today, or, in fact, what we're voting for today, will be over. But let's remember one thing. Indeed, Macedonia has been a long-standing obstacle to its entry into the Euro-Atlantic structures, economically and otherwise severely damaged, as well as the disputes that arose there. And remember our own history. That investment came to us only when we joined NATO, because there is nothing more cowardly than money, and only when international capital, investment felt safe, so they joined the Czech Republic, and of course the biggest came when we became members of the European Union. Very simply. Because the investor wants a big market. No one would invest in a small market like the Czech Republic or Macedonia or Kosovo. It only invests in large units today, and if it wants a market for the products that the investor will produce there. Therefore, there is also the possibility of economic development, which corresponds to the possibilities of Macedonia. And we should support it in its development, because it's really not their fault they've been blocked for so long. Macedonia, perhaps I should just like to point out, is of particular importance to us because people who spoke the same dialect lived in the vicinity of Thessaloniki twelve hundred years ago. And the holy brothers Cyril and Metoděj learned the Slavic language that was actually the ancestors of today's Macedonians. We should never forget that. Our Christianity also came out of this. So let us wish Macedonia a really successful development, and I hope that both Euro-Atlantic structures will help it, not only for security, not only for stability, but also for the greater investment that this country needs terribly due to unemployment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u17	Thank you. With Mrs Langšádlová's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u18	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I agree completely with what was said here from Karel Schwarzenberg's mouth. I would just like to say that I have spoken to my colleagues from Macedonia several times in recent months, and I have visited this country and other Balkan countries. And I would like to assure and respond to what Mr Kobza said here that Macedonia is a stable country at the moment. I think it is true that there have been times and there have been stages where the Albanian minority has sought autonomy, but as I have talked to both Macedonian politicians and citizens, it is a truly stable country at the moment. I would like to express my immense appreciation for the fact that there has been an agreement between Greece and North Macedonia and that we should appreciate this very much, and also by allowing us to join the Alliance. It may seem to us that the Balkans are far away, and he is near. We must remember that the national wars that were there were close and that we were then affected by the migration wave, and in our interest it is for this region to be stable. I am convinced from my personal experience that their negotiations with the North Atlantic Alliance, but also their accession negotiations in relation to the European Union contribute significantly to stability, and I believe that the future prosperity of this region as well, and I consider the entry of North Macedonia into the Alliance as something of great importance and undoubtedly in our interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u19	Mr Hájek has yet to make a point of fact. Mrs Černochová is enrolled in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u20	I'd follow up on my colleague Langšádlová here. I have to agree completely and fully. I had the opportunity to be a participant with my colleague Langšádlová - we had a meeting in North Macedonia during the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And it's always better to see once than a hundred times to hear. Indeed, we had the opportunity to see and hear the views of the Makedonec. We were delighted that there really was a change in the name, which was positively reflected in Greece's understanding that he was a partner to them. And, of course, what my colleagues or a colleague from the SPD have been talking about. NATO today is a set - hopefully - of 30 countries, where, of course, there are not always 100% balanced relationships. We know that the situation between Greece and Turkey is not simple, but I think that the situation between North Macedonia and Greece will never reach such a level as unfortunately, or the tension between Greece and Turkey. So for me and for the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am glad that North Macedonia will be, and I firmly believe that it will be, the 30th member of NATO, and I think that it has full support from the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u21	Thank you. In the debate now, Mrs Černochová, so far the last one registered. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to respond to colleagues from the SPD and their touching care for the fate of Macedonia and the de facto questioning of the democratic process that took place in Macedonia because the citizens of Macedonia decided that they wanted to be part of NATO. And you esteemed colleagues through the Vice-President, you have no right to discredit their decision in any way here. I would at least like to Vondráček on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party for the fact that they may have had to hear what they have heard. Maybe not, maybe it's beyond their discernment and they don't take what's been said seriously. But really, if a democratic country decides to become a part of something, with all due respect to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, I really do not understand that someone here is dealing with whether it should be done or not. They just made a choice. There's been a whole bunch of untruths. One of the untruths was the question concerning Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have missed it, but on 8 February 2019 Greece ratified the Protocol on the Accession of Macedonia to NATO. Greece has ratified. And that's when the media wrote about it as a great victory in the fight against nationalists. So, of course, Macedonia certainly has some of its SPDs in its parliament that criticized NATO accession, I'm not surprised. But just democratically, this country has made up its mind. So what right do you have to take this country's freedom to decide? And by the way, the principles of NATO are completely different from those of the European Union, when I often agree with your criticism personally. As not all countries decide on important issues in the European Union, unfortunately, there is the principle of the various majorities. But in NATO, all countries make the same decisions. Let's give Macedonia the right to be part of the North Atlantic Alliance, they deserve it. Because Macedonia has been waiting for this decision since 2002. And the key agreement that has opened the way of Macedonia, which has therefore been signed, as I said, by Greece on 8 February 2019. About what my colleague Vích said here. He knows very well as an ex-military. But, yes, if you look at the map, it's very clear to you. But I'm pretty sure there's something else that's not clear to you. Here I would just like to say, through the Vice-President, that this is not just a military strengthening, but it is precisely a strengthening of stability in the region. And the Czech Republic, or if you want Czechoslovakia, deserves stability in this region. Because exactly, as you mentioned, there is still a risk that we do not know how Turkey's path will develop. And we certainly need our allies in this part of the Balkans in this part of Europe. But NATO is not thanks to the god of the European Union. I am the supporter of NATO, just like the entire ODS. We support Macedonia to become part of NATO. And they have endured their application for membership, and I think that after a long 17 years, we should not question the decision, nor the diplomatic decision, nor all the acts they had to undertake, at the home of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a delegation of the Republic of North Macedonia, headed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of North Macedonia, by His excelence, Mr Zoran Zaev, at the guest gallery. Welcome, please. [[MEPs rise and applaud the delegation.]] Thank you. There is no further entry into the debate. So I'm done with the debate. I ask the Minister, the rapporteur, if there is an interest in the final word. [[- Yes. Rapporteur: No.]] He's interested. Mr. Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to underline here that the aspirations for membership are the free choice of North Macedonia. It is the output of the democratic process. They decided to do this more than 16 years ago, and we confirmed the aspiration at the Bucharest Summit in 2008. And it's also a confirmation of what we've always advocated. Open-door policy. A policy that comes with the free will of individual countries to strengthen their security by becoming members of the largest collective security organisation in the world. An organisation that has been contributing for 70 years to the safety of its members and stability. [[11.40 hours]] I would like to respond briefly here to what has fallen from the mouth of the SPD. If we are concerned about the stability of North Macedonia, it is precisely membership of institutions such as NATO and the EU that will contribute to strengthening this stability and security. Our priority has always been to strive for the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans, whether in the North Atlantic Alliance or in the European Union. The government claimed this goal regardless of whether it was right-wing or left-wing. In short, I would also just mention - yes, membership of the North Atlantic Alliance results in responsibilities, but it also brings more stability and security to the Member States, because they can participate in the decision-making process, I believe that in the near future a team of 30 states. And that they are also able to work together to address the challenges of today's world, such as international terrorism, but also to strengthen democracy in our country and in the Member States. The question is therefore whether it is really in the interests of the Czech Republic to delay. I believe that it is not, and I believe that Members of Parliament and Members today, symbolically with the participation of Prime Minister Zaevo, will support the membership of North Macedonia in the North Atlantic Alliance and that North Macedonia will no longer be only an invited country at the London Summit, but will be a full member and be able to participate in the decision-making process in the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-002-201.u25	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. I have called in Members who have not been in the Chamber, and we can proceed to the vote. I will just remind you that we will vote on the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives consent to ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty signed on 6 February. 2019 in Brussels.' We are ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? There's a check-out request. This vote is invalid, I've signed you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. We still don't have enough logged in. Please check if you are logged in with your ID cards. It's okay now. We can now proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 57, 148 Members entered. For 124, versus 8. The motion for a resolution has been approved. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. Another fixed point is point number
