ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u1	217. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. We will therefore proceed to the discussion of paragraph 217. On the agenda of the 28th meeting The Chamber of Deputies submitted a total of nine responses to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with, and therefore asked to be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to each written interpelation. The first interview is an interview with the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the opaque management of ČEZ and, in particular, its investments in Bulgaria. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 342. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I'm opening the debate. The Member shall be the first to speak to his intervention. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u2	Dear Government, my fellow Members, allow me to remind you what we have last discussed, because we have not been able to continue to discuss this written interpelation for some time. This is an interpelation concerning the sale of Bulgarian assets of ČEZ, Bulgaria's ČEZ Distribuce, where in public sources it was pointed out that they should be privatized into the hands of people connected to the Balkan mafia. Mrs. Ginka Varbakovová performed there. It is a trade worth CZK 8 billion, or it is a rather serious matter of how to deal with the unfortunate legacy of ČEZ's going into a rather risky situation and it did not end quite well. According to the current information we have, there has been some shift since the beginning of the discussion of this interpelation, namely that it was originally intended to privatise the company, Mrs Varbakovová, which has the very dubious links, and according to the current information, ČEZ would withdraw from this contract. And I would like to ask the government, which has committed itself to having an active position as owner, how it will proceed, what is its position as active shareholder of ČEZ in relation to Bulgarian assets, because it is considered that a new tender for the sale of those Bulgarian assets would be issued for more than CZK 8 billion; So if there's a tender, if that's what the state wants. And if he can confirm that negotiations are ongoing with some Czech groups on the sale of those Bulgarian assets. I understand, of course, that the government does not exercise the powers of the Supervisory Board or of any other body, that the Ministry of Finance is acting as a shareholder representative, and therefore I would like to ask whether the government, as an active shareholder, has requested an explanation in this matter at the general meeting or will request it at the next general meeting or even convene a general meeting for these purposes. So I would like to ask, given that there is no doubt that the government is actively dealing with the situation surrounding ČEZ, so I would also like to hear the Prime Minister's observations on this situation regarding the privatisation of Bulgarian CEZ Distribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u3	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister if he will respond. Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u4	So hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the answer is still the same as we wrote to the Member on 7 November 2018. The government does not actively deal with ČEZ. I don't know what an active shareholder is because I don't know that term. We're shareholders, we go to general meetings. The Ministry of Finance exercises stock rights. And I called on the Member last time, if there are any doubts, to file criminal charges against the police, if he has any knowledge that there is an injustice. [[9.10 hours]] We're not a 100% shareholder, so I'm in my position to have only information from the media, from the annual reports. This is where I refer to the annual report for 2017, 2018 is not yet available. Dealing with the property of ČEZ in Bulgaria. And I agree that the whole of CEZ in Bulgaria is very strange, that strange things were happening there, that it was untransparable. I have also expressed myself more critically about this. But this issue, which the Member asks me, is the issue of the supervisory board of ČEZ and the information is confidential. So I don't have the information, and I can never have it. The government is actively engaged in what CEZ is doing, as there has been an assumption. I don't know if the contract was canceled, it wasn't canceled, it's in the supervisory board's jurisdiction. And there will certainly be a general meeting in June, that is soon, so if the Member has any specific questions that the state should make officially at the next general meeting, we will be happy to do so. If we're gonna call a general meeting for this, it's gonna cost quite a lot of money. I think that it can wait less than two months, and I would like to have questions from the Member that we should ask as a shareholder, and I would like to pass them on to the Ministry of Finance, which exercises shareholder rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u5	Thank you. I ask who is interested in speaking in the debate. Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u6	Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the Prime Minister's helpful attitude. And to clarify the question about the active exercise of shareholder rights, the active exercise of ownership - the Prime Minister said that he was not clear enough about what I had in mind, so I wanted to read an excerpt from one publication: The State must act as an informed and active owner, it must ensure that the management of the state's assets is conducted transparently and responsibly and with a high degree of professionalism and efficiency. The concept of active ownership assumes that the State will continuously monitor the company's results and evaluate their performance. If the State is to act as a responsible active owner in companies with state-owned ownership and state-owned enterprises, it is necessary for companies and state-owned enterprises to provide the State with up-to-date information on the development of management and activities in accordance with applicable laws and statutes. I have read this excerpt from the proposal tabled by the Prime Minister as Minister of Finance. This is a strategy of ownership policy of the Czech Republic and I think it is very well described there. Although this material was ultimately not accepted by the government, unfortunately, the description of active ownership is quite accurate there. The point is that if we are to deal economically with our shares, in this case with a major share in one of the largest companies in CEZ, we must have up-to-date information on the management and solve the most important problems. It's for active ownership. After all, I think it would be a little better if the government itself monitored the situation around ČEZ and the government itself, virtually. The Ministry of Finance, which is to actively exercise shareholder rights, prepared those questions about this case and raised them at the general meeting. However, if the Ministry of Finance is unable to do so with the workers assigned to it, I will be happy to help. We'll prepare the questions so they can be put at the June general meeting, and I'll send them to you. As far as criminal charges are concerned, I can assure you that we are working on it and that, within about two months, the general meeting should be processed so that it can be based on the general meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u7	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. She apologizes to Mrs Margita Balaštíková from 9.00 to 10.00 for work reasons. Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologizes between 9.00 and 10.00 for reasons of work. Mr Roman Sklenák apologizes for the morning's work, and Mr Ivo Vondrák apologises between 14.30 and 19.00 for family reasons. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u8	I understand that the Member has no experience in terms of what he is trying to discuss here. I would ask you if you could distinguish between a state enterprise or 100% ownership, where we can be an active shareholder, when we are the only shareholder and when we are an active shareholder and where we can require various information and we can intervene. But this isn't the case. ČEZ is not the case you're demonstrating here, and you know it. You're just trying to present something here that doesn't work. You're actually urging us to commit some kind of felony. In the media, someone reportedly gave the Bulgarian Prime Minister some information. And it's being investigated by the police. You're telling me what? burza. If I say anything about CEZ, the company's on the stock market, if you don't know, I'd remind you. He's on the stock market. There are other shareholders. So please learn this, and don't encourage us to do illegal activities here. The shareholder exercises shareholder rights at the general meeting. And I'm sure there's always a lot of questions, and if you have any questions, I'm sure we can do it without you. But if you're doing marketing here and you're pretending to understand, we'd be happy if you could help us with that. It's not a 100% state-owned company, it's not a state-owned company, it's a stock exchange company. And we, personally, have no right to this information. Even once, they refused to accept me to the Supervisory Board of ČEZ. There are representatives of the state, there are representatives of the trade union, there is a supervisory board with competence. Please, this statement of yours is meaningless. We cannot be an active shareholder where we are 100% the owner, where the general meeting is equal to the sole shareholder. If you don't know, I suggest you study it. And this isn't the case. It's not the case. And that case where the media said someone was supposed to provide some information about this weird transaction, I agree with you, so it was right on the table that there was some suspicion of something. Please be so kind as not to challenge me to act in violation of the law. We're not the only shareholders. We're not an active shareholder. I don't know what an active shareholder is. Is that what he's asking questions at the general meeting? Yes, we'll put them down. Bring them in, and I don't have a problem. We can ask you anything. But the government does not deal with čez, and any information about Čez has an impact on ČEZ shares on the stock exchange. It would be good if we made a distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate. Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u10	Thank you for the floor. We certainly did not ask you, Prime Minister, to carry out any illegal activity. We wanted the Ministry of Finance and the Government to ensure that the shareholder rights were properly exercised, that the questions would be asked at the general meeting. I think your way of attacking us Members here is completely inappropriate for the Chamber of Deputies. So I would like to ask you to consider the way you address the Members next time. [[9.20 hours]] We certainly do not want you to commit any crime, and of course all of us sitting here know that CEZ is not 100% owned by the state. Those are notoriety. There's no need to repeat it here. What we are talking about is that the state in the company it controls, that is, has a majority stake there, has a dominant influence on its functioning, because it has most of the shares there, exercises shareholder rights at the general meeting, can ask questions and may, if it is not satisfied with the work of the Supervisory Board, withdraw the Supervisory Board. So I think that this situation, the sale of Bulgarian assets, is a serious situation that the Ministry of Finance should monitor as a shareholder, and I will certainly take advantage of the opportunity that you have offered me, and I will put these questions to you, and then I will see how the CEZ business authorities will respond to them at the general meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u11	Thank you. The Prime Minister will speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u12	Mr. Ambassador, it's hard. This is a debate, it's like I'm discussing a cardiologist. You use names that don't exist at all. What's a business company? CEZ is a business company? It's a joint stock company, please. Then learn it. A stock company, not a business company. I don't. Active shareholder - I don't know what it is. Is he the one who's still applying at the general meeting? That's what we're gonna do. We'll check in, we'll ask for everything. I agree with you, and I think I'm communicating very well here, because I also know something about it. And it's a tough debate for me, but I'm trying. Yeah, so... The stock company, the general meeting and the supervisory board are definitely actively fighting for the rights of the owner. It's a Czech state. I'm sure we do. So please, let's distinguish that there are other shareholders, that it's a different position than if we were 100% owner. We will certainly be happy and actively, we will be an active shareholder in June at the general meeting, we will be actively reporting and we will ask all questions. So I'm gonna ask you to give us the list, and we're definitely gonna do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u13	Thank you. Another apology came in. Between 9 and 11 o'clock, Mr Přemysl Mališ apologizes for family reasons. And with a factual remark, a Member of Ferjenčík is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to stop acting like a redneck here, I think it's completely inappropriate for a colleague of Michálek. . [[President: I think it's mutual. I'm going to ask you to avoid certain expressions. Thank you. - Members mostly from the ANO movement are banging into the benches.]] And I wanted to quote from the company's website cez.cz. The press release states: "CEZ is not a mandatory entity under the Act on Free Access to Information. " So, Prime Minister, when ČEZ writes in itself on its website that it is a business company, it is probably a business company. So don't flat out here. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u15	I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. Member of Michálek. I'll ask everyone involved to try to really follow some form of performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u16	I believe that we, at least personally, always try to keep it in form, but I think that the attacks really are inappropriate when the Prime Minister here lectures someone and doesn't even study it himself, because he obviously doesn't understand the law at all. So let him look it up on Wikipedia, that business companies in the legislation of the Czech Republic regulate Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Cooperatives, or Act on Commercial Corporations, which came into effect on 1 January 2014. Business companies and cooperatives are jointly called commercial corporations. According to this law, we rank among commercial companies public companies, limited liability companies, limited liability companies and joint-stock companies. So if anyone talks about CEZ, they can refer to it as a joint stock company, as a business company and as a business corporation. I wouldn't bring this up at all if you weren't constantly trying to embarrass the other Members and their erudists in an area that is law and which you clearly do not control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u17	I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I ask if there is an interest in a motion for a resolution on this point - Mr Member? It's not like that. I hereby consider this interpelation to be discussed. Another interpelation is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation on planned investments for 2019 and the 10-year investment plan. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 361. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I am opening the debate and President Stanjura is the first to report to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u18	Good morning, colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, Mr President, unlike the previous interpellation, we have the opportunity to speak about it for the first time at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I just want to remind you of some data. It's been six months since I sent that written interview, it's been five months since I got an answer from the Prime Minister. Just so we know how fast, how often the Prime Minister answers to written interpelations. On the other hand, I must say that the time we didn't discuss it actually worked against the Prime Minister. The content of the interpelation was a simple question. There was no criticism, no attack, no advice. Question. Because, as you know, the first government of Andrej Babiš, a government that did not gain confidence, last year from 5 March to 20 June, was doing business to use the government's vocabulary, exits to regions where the government debated with representatives of municipalities, municipal or regional authorities about potential investments, to reconcile the investment strategy of the state, regions, cities and municipalities. Whoever remembers the selfies, we can say that many of those who took the photos can no longer call for an answer. Minister Šlechtová, Minister Stropnický, Minister Pelikán. We could ask Minister Took another ten days. Let's just see how the team turned. I asked the Prime Minister in that written interview if he could provide me with that ten-year investment plan that he says has never been processed, he clearly sees it as supporting his project and criticism of everyone before him, and how this investment plan and its priorities were included in the preparation of the draft budget for 2019. I note that I sent the interview in October last year, which is when the draft state budget for 2019 was only being discussed. I wanted a sketch of these investments in the estimated amount of CZK 3.5 trillion, and I wanted to know whether specific shares were also expected to receive a contribution from the European Union funds. The Prime Minister replied to me on 26 November last year when he repeated what was the target. The creation of a national investment plan is the coordination of strategic activities of resorts, municipalities, cities and regions, so that projects meet the strategy of the Czech Republic and create additional effects of synergies. In November, the Prime Minister wrote to me: "The mentioned national investment plan is now being completed. It will soon be submitted to the Government of the Czech Republic for approval, i.e. on 26 November 2018, as it has not been approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. As soon as the government approves the national investment plan, you will be familiar with its content." [[9.30 hours]] I'm the kind of person who trusts a written word in particular. So, in November, I rejoiced that the government will discuss this in the near future, either the total material or the modifications will be approved, and I will receive a national investment plan sometime in January, at the latest in February. But promises of mistakes. It's the end of April. I'm trying to follow quite honestly the government's agenda. If memory does not deceive me, the point of approval or discussion of the national investment plan has not yet been reached at the government's meeting. I just want to remind you that the YES movement and the Prime Minister themselves have been in government for six years. As a criticism of themselves after six years, or after more than five years, they say no one has ever done it, now we're planning it. About five years is not a very short time if someone considers such an instrument useful to prepare or enforce it. First of all. Secondly, five months have passed since that November, apparently nothing has moved. And although in these weeks and months, the Prime Minister says that he was actually mapping investment opportunities, so when you ask the mayors that the Prime Minister dealt with, they understood that they had it promised. We'll take care of it, no problem, we'll release it, we'll finance it. And nothing at all. Well, I would fluently follow up on the interpellation, because there's nothing I can say about the content. I asked if I could get an investment plan available. The Prime Minister wrote: he's not there yet, so I'll send him to you. There's no reason to object to this answer. However, after five months, Prime Minister, when will the government discuss it and when can I expect you to send it to me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u19	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u20	Thank you for the floor. You see, Mr. Ambassador, it's a great shame - we'll be celebrating 30 years since the revolution - that no one has devised that national investment plan, how you got to power, the ODS. That you didn't go to that internship to learn to build that capitalism. The national investment plan is my idea. I invented it. It's my know-how. And the answer today is I won't give it to you. And that the government won't even discuss it. Because we discuss it every day. I had another round of meetings today about the investments. And you're saying we didn't do anything? So try to explain to me why the traditional democratic parties have never given money to repair the roads of the second and third classes? Never! And you know why? Because he's always been a finance minister from a different side than the governor. And you never put money on those roads. And I was the first one with Took to be the finance minister to give $4.4 billion in 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day A total of CZK 15 billion to repair the roads of the second and third classes to the regions that are having a great time. They have 47 billion in their accounts thanks to a check report, thanks to EET, thanks to our tax collection, they have a lot of money. And they got 65 billion extra transfers. Thanks to us. Yes? So don't tell me we're not doing anything. In those parts - and you kept trying to push us around to make promises. I promised the MRI in Kromeriz. And she'll be there. Even Mr Farský, the mayor will build that kindergarten in Semily, which I promised to help her with. And do you know how many of these municipalities have submitted demands for the kindergarten? Four billion. And we have already provided 185 municipalities with 2.8 billion and we have other projects here. And this morning, the overhang on those kindergartens, because that's a priority, and I've dealt with it as part of my parenting allowance. Because those mothers would love to go to work. But if there's no kindergarten and it's seven grand and she makes seven grand part-time, it's no use for her. Yes? So this morning, after our negotiations with Mrs Vildumetzová, we finally fulfilled our promise, and the regions will get another $4 billion. And only because we made a commitment. We have no obligation whatsoever. Landscapes, municipalities, cities live on taxes. Those taxes will be distributed by the Treasury. They'll be collected. And it's hundreds of billions. But we promised, so we keep it. So we agreed this morning, and of course we're dealing with it. And we're dealing with it from morning to night. We're looking for the money for the national investment plan. If you had made it in your first government, the deficit would not have been 3.5 thousand billion, the potential of our country to invest, but it would have been considerably lower because you didn't invest much. And we're doing it. We're doing it. And it's a potential that keeps changing. The ministers are now in charge of presenting us with the readiness to invest. Yes? It is also about how we draw money from Europe. Yes? So that's what we're dealing with. And we have today on the table for small municipalities - and those small municipalities know it - we have an overhang of 7 billion on local communications, 1 129 projects for 2.1 billion to rebuild buildings and transport infrastructure for municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants. Yes? Reconstruction and reconstruction of public buildings, sports, gyms. And especially the kindergartens we need, and we need the schools. So that's what we need. And the mayors know that. I don't know who you're talking to. But we're watching the overhang and we're looking for the money. And this morning I solved 2.3 billion for kindergarten. And we're looking for 2.2 billion more from our budget. It's nice to say, this is needed, that's what we suggest, but somebody has to find the money. And we're dealing with it. Because everyone wants money. And the cooperation with the government. I mean, ask the mayors how much money they have in their accounts. I've just been to Most. We're talking about no apartments. Well, the state gave the government 600,000 flats. They got 10,000 flats in a bridge like this. They have 245 apartments today. And we're dealing with those scumbags who are taking advantage of the welfare benefits. And we're not gonna be able to hit them with the rent. So we're dealing with it. And we came. Try telling me why there were no apartments built behind your governments. Now Mrs. Dostálová finally came up with Project Construction. For five years, we have lost meaningless debates about the law on social housing. But we're talking about affordable housing. Because they want to live not only social people, but they want to live young people, even old people, apartments are expensive, rent is expensive, we don't have the right law. Now we're dealing with the recodification of the building bill, so let's hope your party supports us. So we came up with the construction. We say yes, Most. When a hundred flats are built and twenty apartments are for social purposes, he gets a hundred percent grant. The state never came up with any proposal. And 600,000 flats sold out, now it's missing. So we came up with support. We're giving a 100% grant to 20 percent of the apartments. 100% grant. That was never here. It's on the table, and the government has discussed it. Now we're gonna have to deal with the details. [[9.40 hours]] That's the money to build apartments. It's money we want to borrow. Municipals, cities, so they can, if they push those bastards to get out of the abuse of housing units, right? so they can buy them and borrow them for construction. So we're dealing with it, your legacy. That you didn't have such a program, that no one invented it for you? National investment plan. Well, you didn't go to the internship. If you were internship, maybe they would've told you that instead of a coupon, you could've put it in Singapore or... that's where the fund was. Or Norway has a fund like that. Unless, of course, it's stolen, if someone's doing it right. That's the kind of Singapore that gets $30 billion out of that fund. Norway, too. So there's been a mistake. We're investing. The transport infrastructure, it's forgotten too, even the speed trains, it's forgotten too. So, yes, it was our idea. It's a certain know-how. And I guess it was a mistake that I wrote to you that... Because I can imagine if we put it out, everyone would try me out of 17,000 projects. You'd still be asking when it's going to be. We are now preparing an investment plan mainly for 2020, a long-term investment plan for 2021-2020. I just went to a conference on cultural monuments. There we also have projects in Prague. We have a fantastic National Museum, where the money went when I was Minister of Finance. Now the beautiful State Opera is being completed. We have a project on the table for the reconstruction of the National Gallery for $3 billion. We started Invalidovna for a billion. So I think that we are investing specifically for us, and of course we are also looking for resources outside the Czech budget and outside the European budget. We're working on it, and it's very, very specific. It's very specific. So it would be good to be objective. Today, for example, the requirements for IROP have 31.5 billion regions. They got 26 billion. We're also trying to find additional resources, and the point is, of course, we're analyzing the state of the building's readiness. So we're dealing with it. And now we've got 2020, 2021, 2022 on the table, and of course we're drawing on the national investment plan. And again, we've mapped the potential. Yesterday we had a conference on water, such as the Slavonice reservoir will cost 700 million, a new tank on Rakovnick 550 million. One pond is built every day. Every day, one pond is buried or reconstructed. So I think everyone can see that they're investing. Investment's going up. National investment plan... I think I'm gonna text you again, and I'm gonna text you what I told you because it wasn't a promise, and somebody was trying to push us around. There were very few promises. This was a mapping of potential, and according to this, Minister Dostálová makes her programmes from the Czech budget and from the European budget. That is why we want and fight in Brussels for our interests to determine what we will get money from Brussels for. And the money's going to be less and less, because we're getting richer, and we're getting higher and higher in terms of purchasing the population, even if somebody's still trying to push our way down here. On the contrary, we are in a great position to compare it with Europe. Fourth smallest debt. We've reduced the debt again, even if we're investing. That, of course, is important. And the national investment plan actually serves to argue in Brussels. We say yes, we get less money, we get 20 billion euros for 2021-2027 because we got rich. We'll get less, but we want to invest in it. We want to invest in these investments, and they're still pushing us the European Social Fund - 22 percent, the various soft programs. We need investment programmes and that is what we are fighting for, which is why we are actively taking part in the meeting of the prime ministers of individual governments who are fighting for cohesion, and we want the next European budget to be in our opinion, not according to a Brusel official who feels that he knows it better than we do what we need the money for. And as part of this initiative, we created the Council of the Government for Public Investment, the first meeting on 28 January, the first meeting to support government decision-making in the construction and operation of a modern public investment system. The aim of the Board will be to support the efforts of the Government of the Czech Republic to build an efficient and understandable system of public investment by the end of 2020. The second meeting of the Government Council was held on 2 April, at which we all agreed that other resources other than the national budget and EU funds should also be used to implement the investment plan, so as not to slow down the pace of construction, and all modernisation steps must aim to accelerate the implementation of public investment. We also agreed that one of the main roles in defining financial resources outside the state budget should be the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank. At that account I met with representatives, we had a special meeting with the Czech Statistical Office, and of course the question is why we do not have, for example, the ČMZRB's balance sheet as other countries, another form of why we do not use other possibilities of investment. The question is why, for example, you were also the Minister of Transport - why I don't know how many years in those ODS, or your colleagues didn't do any PPP project. Now finally the first one is in the finals - Strakonice highway, 24 kilometers I think, is the first project in 30 years, or what it is, 26 years. We also want to deal with PPP projects. I've set up an analysis, asked other states what we could build. For example, Governor Čunek wants to make a big investment in the hospital in Zlín, the pirát want to build a hospital in Letňany. Perhaps these are projects that could be implemented in the form of PPP partnerships of the public and private sphere, because of course the need for investment is huge. I have dealt with the European Investment Bank several times. We are also trying to say to self-government that money is for borrowing within, of course, sound finances. We are also looking for other sources, we are working on the strategy of the ČMZRB. So the work goes on and, of course, it's all about money. [[9.50 hours]] I understand someone might say it's taking a long time, but that's how we built a state, so we built structures here. That's right. So we're working on this for a short time now, and we're analyzing individual projects in that investment pool, and of course we're looking at priorities. Yesterday, we also had meetings with the health unions in regional hospitals, where, of course, health has projects worth 74 billion in the national investment plan. Only the key faculty hospitals have $9 billion there. Culture's $44 billion in there. But the main share is the right. Of course, we are finally starting to do something about the fast trains, now SŽDC has agreed with TGV on cooperation and we are moving on and hopefully we will start soon with realization. And, of course, legislation is very important. So, as part of the Public Investment Council, we are mainly dealing with a new construction law. We want to make life in the construction process easier for builders by simplifying and simplifying legislation with a vision one stamp - one office - one permit. So it will be a matter of course that the building agenda will be able to take place in an electronic form in an accessible information system, which will be a substitute for the paper-based file material with which the builder runs after an infinitely long list of different state organizations. Of course, we know that our consumption and our growth are mainly about consumption and exports, and of course the national investment plan and the idea arose at a time when we knew, of course, that there would be no such growth forever. And the fact that it's cooling down is, of course, mostly in the surrounding states. Globally. The Czech Republic still has great growth, significantly higher growth than the euro area or some, and Germany several times. Of course we're addicted, we have a third of our exports. So we're working very hard on this, we're analyzing the European IROP program where they are, and today there's about 22 billion overhangs. And we're analyzing each item, and of course we're evaluating -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u21	Ambassador, I urge you to stop fooling around and go sit down! I consider it inappropriate behavior! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u22	Well, Mr. Chairman, that's why you do it, isn't it? The psychics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u23	On some level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u24	This is just to get colleagues to do some PR here when they don't have any other programs than anti-grandmothers, right? Then if I'm being criticized for why I don't come here, Mr. Ambassador, Stanjur, don't be surprised. It's just a waste of time for me. So $22 billion in IROP on the table. So we're working. We're looking for the money. It's easy to talk about, but it's harder to get. So we have concrete results and let's try to be objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u25	Thank you. I'm just sorry, I'm not gonna forgive myself. The MRI in Kromeriz already is. I went to see her last week. That's how I want to show off. With Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark, then I have three applications. Mr Michálek, then Mr Stanjura, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to apologize for disturbing Mr. Babiš, however, just as Mr. Stanjura asks him for a simple document, where the Prime Minister is going to publish his investment plan, which he has been talking about here for six months, and instead of giving him a decent reply, he's babbling about what he's supposedly going to do, and he's not going to do it, so don't be mad at me, that's totally against your pre-election vows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u27	Mr Michálek, then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm joining President Stanjura's challenge. We wanted to see the national investment plan, too, because the government's 26. 11. 2018 issued a press release that Prime Minister Babiš introduced an investment plan by 2030, which includes 17 000 projects for nearly 3.5 trillion crowns. So the thing that's worth $3.5 trillion is being prepared undercover here. The government has allegedly discussed it or has not discussed it in any way, so we'd like to see the document. It seems perfectly normal to me. In the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, we have written that the Member has the right to information to the Government, so the Government should provide the information, and it should publish the investment plan for CZK 3.5 trillion. I don't know why everyone couldn't see what the investment potential is. I think it's great that a party colleague, Mr. Vondráček, already has that resonance, but I think transparency would require all those intentions to be published. For all people. And as far as the Prime Minister's speech is concerned, I really think that if 30 minutes here are talking about things that no one has asked, like we need kindergartens and schools, we're looking for billions, it really feels like a speech to Milouš Jakeš. It simply serves to avoid answering the questions asked to him. And you, as President, your task under the Rules of Procedure is to lead the speakers to a point if they do not respond to the questions that have been raised in the intercession. It was absolutely clear here. And we've been spending 30 minutes here talking about things the Prime Minister hasn't asked him. All he had to do was say whether he would provide the plan or not. And if he doesn't provide it, he'll give reasons that fit the law, why he won't. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u29	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. I believe that there was no reason, both here and under the Rules of Procedure, to interrupt the Prime Minister because he is talking about investment. You can't say that wasn't the point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I'd like to challenge you to run a meeting so that you can be fair to everyone. Whether you're good or harsh or hard, I don't care, choose your approach to the debating Members, but let that approach be the same to everyone. On a simple question of when I will get the investment plan according to the written promise of the Prime Minister from the material in the Houses of the Press 361/0, I learned not the deadline in 30 minutes, but: Yesterday I discussed with the trade unions about those faculty hospitals. This morning I dealt with the president of the County Association, which I gave four billion. In the last parliamentary term, I gave two billion, me and Took. No minister ever gives any billions. I assume it was approved by the government, Prime Minister, even Sobotkův. Not that you and Took gave someone billions. But I will stick strictly to the law, and I will note that it was very difficult to keep an eye out in the mess of incoherent thoughts that the President of the House says were all about investment. But I didn't ask for investments. I didn't even criticize, Prime Minister, that you didn't do enough, wrong or anything. [[unintelligible]] There wasn't even a shadow of criticism in that question. Not in that written interview, not in my performance. But it wouldn't be the Prime Minister if he didn't consider the question a criticism. And the Rules of Procedure are clear: either the government has a national investment plan and we have the right to receive it, and there is no such thing as what the Prime Minister said, "I'm not sending you anything" - you can find it in the log. And you, President of the House, should defend the rights of all Members regardless of their party jurisdiction. Or, that is the second option, which I think is true, nothing like an approved document, a national investment plan, there is no such thing as the Prime Minister's idea, I do not deny it, I do not take it from him, I have not questioned it - but nothing has been done since the idea, and therefore logically, as he wrote to me: the national investment plan, which is now being completed, will be submitted to the Government for approval in the near future, so we cannot provide it to date, because it has not been approved by the Czech Government. [[10.00 hours]] So, if this sentence also applies to the present day, as of 18 April, I note that even after a year and two months after the government began to map the needs that the Prime Minister had so long and incoherently talked about, Andrej Babiš was not even able to implement his idea from the prime minister's post, to submit it to the government, to have it approved by the government and, at the request of opposition or government Members, to present this document. We didn't criticize it at all. But there will be fast trains! When we talk about quick connections, let's talk about TGV. But a simple question. Has the government approved it yet? The answer may be simple: yes or no, or a developed sentence: it will be next month. And if he answers yes, when the Prime Minister will send it. We heard it here, I don't know what I'd call it, stalling. And then the Prime Minister comes in and says, "That's why I don't come here because it's a waste of time. You took half an hour from us, Prime Minister. If you answer me in those two sentences: it's done, it's not done, when it's done, I'll send you what I promised you in a written document, I wouldn't come here anymore. So I'll repeat the question. Is the national investment plan approved? Is it by the government's approval? If so, I ask that the President of the House arrange for me to get him, because I am entitled to this document by law, unless he is under a classified regime, that is something else. I can't imagine the investment plan is under secret regime, but maybe I'm wrong. Or a simple answer: the government has not yet discussed it, we will discuss it then and then. And we could've saved 30 minutes and we could've discussed another interpellation. I don't use written interpelations for anything, Prime Minister, I have to defy myself. Take a look at the tone and the text of the interpelation. It's totally business. At the beginning, I said that five months have passed since the answer, and I ask when I will get the plan if the government has already approved it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u31	Good morning, honourable Members, Members of the Government, Prime Minister. Before I give the floor to Prime Minister Andrea Babiš, I will read the apology received by the President of the House. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes to Mrs Radka Maxová from 9 to 11 a.m. and from 14 a.m. to the end of the day, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková apologizes from today's meeting for personal reasons and another, a penultimate apology from 9.45 to 10.30 for working reasons of František Kopřiva. And the last apology I will now read is Mr. Jaroslav Kytýr's apology from 14.30 for business reasons. The Prime Minister is now reporting for the floor. [[President of PS Vondráček reminds off the microphone that Mrs Kovářová is to speak.]] Oh, I'm sorry. It was brought up when the meeting was handed over. I have an unfinished Mrs Kovářová, who wants to speak. With a point of fact? [[Yes.]] Okay. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u32	Dear Prime Minister, I will not forgive myself, and I must respond to your comments on kindergarten. Again, you mentioned the story of Mr Farský, or Mrs Mayor of Semil. We have known for years that kindergartens lack several billion crowns. You promised the mayor of Semil that you would arrange for her to get the money for a kindergarten grant. You sent her to the Ministry of Education to apply for the grant title that we passed here. You voted against this grant title. First of all. And second of all, I'm wondering how you're promising someone that they're gonna get the money from some kind of grant program. You can't do that. It's the committee's choice. So be careful how you handle these words. Two. The state budget for this year was promoted by a grant title or an increase of CZK 300 million to kindergarten schools. Once again, YES voted against this proposal. You say you solve this problem from morning to night. It would have been easy to raise your hand for this grant degree and children could go to new kindergartens, moms could go to work, you could save them money for private kindergartens. And if you'd supported a grant title like that, you'd actually do something for people, for moms, for daddies, and they might be better off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u34	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I didn't promise anything to the mayor of Semil, I just arranged a meeting for her at the MMR, and based on the way we went to the county, the secretary wrote out the programs. First there was 600 million in September, they sold out in 16 seconds. Then there was another 600 million, and now we're putting another one in. So we put the money there. You're not telling the truth, Mrs. Kovářová. Again. What have you done here? You forgot about the budget committee in 2013, when we were discussing the budget here, and when I asked you outside why Kalousek didn't give you money for school, you told me he didn't want to give you money for school. And as Minister of Finance, I have done a program for schools, for hundreds of communities where there are already 4 billion. Yes, thanks to me. I invented it. And if the MP here says... Well, we can talk about those finance ministers, those who cut off 670 billion's worth of debt, those who made 400 billion's worth of debt, those who let them steal the environmental burdens that sent some companies 11 billion. That's interesting. When I became Minister of Finance, we started competing for a quarter. A quarter! Do you remember the big environmental contract? The inspection report is my import, as well as EET, and the abolition of tax havens. I've reduced the government's debt by 70 billion. I found money with Took to fix second-class roads. Then don't say it. I've got it documented. Because I have everything I do on paper. I lent 15 percent of my debt to our country at negative interest, and we were still getting money. And in 2016, I saved 12 billion for debt service. I can document all this, colleague. So don't say it's not like that. That's right. Depends on the Treasury Secretary how they manage. That is why our public budgets are the most stable in Europe and some of the best. And we're the fourth least indebted country. We jumped one spot in Estonia, Luxembourg, Bulgaria. Fourth best. We're all jealous of our public budgets. We invest and raise. The pensioners got as much money this year as you gave them in six years. Everyone remembers 40 crowns. And the kindergarten? They're here on paper. I'm looking for money, and today I got 2.4 billion. We're looking at the European stuff, so don't say what you did. You didn't do anything. You were just talking about it. And the national investment plan? Yes, that's my idea. There he is, there he is, Mr. Stanjur, look how handsome he is. [[He's pointing.]] And that's our internal material, and it wasn't in the government. And I'm not gonna give it to you because it's our internal material. We're getting it, we're making it budget 2021-2020. She looks nice. [[He's showing again.]] Look, pictures. So that's what we're getting from it. And when he wasn't in government? I figured it out, we worked it out, and we're working on getting the money. Why would I give it to you? That's our internal material. We're working on it. And if we get the idea that it's the way we imagine it, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u35	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Kovářová - one more factual point. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u36	Dear Prime Minister, once again, I would like to respond to your comments on the Committee on Budgets, which I am supposed to remember. Yes, I didn't forget about the budget committee either, where we promoted the grant degree to elementary school. And I have not forgotten this vote in favour because you voted against this subsidy title in the Committee on Budgets. You had to do the grant title as Minister of Finance because it was decided by the Chamber of Deputies, and then you do the tasks that the Chamber of Deputies would assign you. And I can still hear here: I've arranged it, I've got the money. [[always said with great emphasis on the word I]] You should realize that the money is the taxes of Czech citizens. That's not your money, because you've been avoiding paying taxes a lot. Let's just remember the koruna bonds, where you saved and annually you save x tens of millions of crowns. So don't just appeal here: me, me, me. We always know how these bunnies end up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u37	Thank you for keeping time on Mrs Věra Kovářová's point of fact. Another factual point - from Jan Volný. The application is made by President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I can't not respond to the colleague who spoke in front of me. I remember that budget committee, the first budget committee, too. I remember her begging and crying that my colleague, former finance minister Kalousek, didn't want to give her the money and that she was hoping that the new guarantee would give it to her. It was half a billion at the time, I remember it well. And it was mainly about schools around Prague, which means around the big housing estate. And it was in my opinion that I do not want to touch my colleague's conscience, directed right into her constituency. But that's nothing to do with anything. I wouldn't completely rule that out. But the fact that we didn't vote for it back then, because we were new here, and we didn't think it was supposed to be buying the budget before it was approved and before we looked at it. But then the Minister really did what he promised at the moment when we voted against that it would certainly be the priority of his ministership at his Ministry of Finance, so he fulfilled it and did the project and programme, and not by half a billion, but by much larger numbers as he talked about it. So, please, let's not play who's done what in here again. I think it was really at the second stage, in the second package of the Babiš Finance Minister's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Věra Kovářová. A colleague of Stanjura will be able to wait. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u40	I don't remember crying. I remember that I had a number of arguments prepared, and I also had the fact that schools and classes were missing for several billion crowns. And once again, I'd like to be clear about Mr. Kalousek. Mr Kalousek, as Minister of Finance, had this grant title prepared. The government fell and therefore this subsidy title could not be approved. So don't forget, you voted against. Maybe you didn't know then. But we knew because we know the troubles of our mayors and our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And before I make another factual comment to Vice-President Pikal, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. She apologizes to Mrs Kateřina Valachová for working reasons today. And for Members - for the afternoon in particular, Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting for working reasons. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u42	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I just want to turn to the Prime Minister with a simple question, whether the material that has been processed, the investment plan, I don't accept that it's theirs, I wish they had created it, I think it's a good thing, but I'd like to ask if it's government material or coalition material, or it's ANO material, so we know how we're supposed to contact him with any further questions about the information from the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact and, therefore, now duly signed up by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u44	So, for the Prime Minister, I once again quote his words: "As soon as the national investment plan has been approved by the government, you will be familiar with its content." He told me today he wasn't sending me anything. If the government doesn't approve it, there's no such thing. Maybe it's another ANO promotional guide. It's okay. Each political party or political movement may have its promotional items and promotional materials. But don't talk about the government having an investment plan. In order for the government to have it, it has to be approved. If they approve it, we as Members are entitled to it. If he doesn't approve, I understand you can't send it to me because there is no such thing as a national investment plan approved by the Czech Government. It's that simple. And for an hour, the Prime Minister has been fogging, instead of saying he's going to submit to the government, and the government will approve, then we're entitled to it, or not. And if it's the internal material of your movement, I don't even want the material. It's like your material, it's fine, it's like I don't care that I don't have it. But look at your answers, what you wrote me, and then compare them to what you told me today. I won't use strong words. That's a diametric change of heart. I could use a stronger word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u45	I thank Mr Stanjur. The Prime Minister is still interested in speaking. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u46	I don't know what's incomprehensible about that. It's internal material. And I wrote to you that if the government approves it, I'll give it to you. By not being approved by the government, I can't give it to you. That's logical. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u47	Thank you. Mr Michálek is still reporting for the debate. Otherwise, I will ask President Stanjur if he is interested in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u48	There's got to be some kind of elementary intention to present this national investment plan to the government. If the plan is submitted to the government, then you really have the opportunity to refuse to provide that information until the decision is taken. But if it's some material that... You said that you would draw from it for x further decisions, and it seems that you will not bring it to the government at all, and based on what has been said here in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, you have not submitted it in the last five months, nor have you developed any activity to bring it to the government, despite the fact that you have already officially presented it at the press conference, and despite the fact that you have represented him here as a swinger, there are no grounds under the Free Access to Information Act to deny the material. I think that's a pretty important thing. I suggest you deal with this because if an official exercises his authority in a way contrary to another law, this may have criminal consequences. If you decide to hide such essential information from Members in the long run without fulfilling the legal preconditions, this may also have these negative consequences. But I suppose it doesn't really matter to you who's already being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u50	I'd like to tell the Prime Minister that if he complains today about wasting his time in the House and who's to blame, let him look in the mirror. If you told me your last performance at 9:19, that means the government didn't discuss it, I wouldn't bring it to the government, so I have nothing to send you, so we could have saved 60 minutes. Vice-President Filip wanted to ask me if I would propose a resolution. No, that's good enough for me. It sounded like the government didn't have a national investment plan. That's enough for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u51	Thank you. I think that's the end of the interpelation. And we'll continue. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová, when the Prime Minister responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's intervention on the management of the Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 363. The discussion of this response was interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is here, and the Member has the opening word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u52	Dear Prime Minister, I have interrogated you on the management of the Office of the President of the Republic and, of course, pointing out that it is a question of how the assets managed by the Lány Forest Administration are managed by the President's Office of the Republic. My question was about strange orders, virtually. sales for the company, which together with the director of the Forest Administration is charged in the case of revitalization of the banks of the water tank Klíčava. I also pointed out that you, too, have been unflattering about Mr Mynář and Mr Nejedlý's address, that they are doing business on the head of the state, and I asked you how you feel about these suspicions and whether it really concerns you in any way. In your reply, you told me that the Minister of Finance replied by letter to a similar interpelation and that you consider the interpelation to be responsible. I would therefore like to ask, in relation to the answer, the Minister, who pointed out that de facto some kind of suspicion regarding the management of both the Lana Forest Administration and the Lana Forest Administration. The office of the President of the Republic that it does not fall under its jurisdiction, and that, therefore, if I have any suspicions, let me address other authorities. So I am asking you, rather, whether you agree with the answer given by the Minister, or are you really going to do something about how the President's Office is actually run. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. I open the debate and ask if the Prime Minister is interested in responding to the opening speech. [[Yes.]] Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u54	I would like to mention this: the Ministry of Finance is the central body of the state administration for the management of state property, it is also not the primary administrative authority responsible for carrying out a comprehensive audit of the management of an organisation falling under a chapter with a specific budgetary position. If the Member has more specific information, it would be best to submit an official complaint specifying the alleged suspicion and to submit it to the competent authority which is authorised to address this particular suspicion. From media monitoring, it can be concluded that mediated suspicions could provide incentives to consider further action, especially for the President's Office itself, which, as a separate chapter of the state budget, has the primary responsibility to control its subordinate organisation. Budget rules, Law No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules, governs the financial management of state contribution organisations, including the Lány Forest Administration. Lány Forest Administration was established in accordance with Section 3 of Act No. 114/1993 Coll., on the Office of the President of the Republic, and in accordance with the previously applicable budgetary rules, Act No. 576/1990 Coll. The State contribution organisation shall carry out the main activity of which the subject matter is entered in the establishment document. In addition to the main activity, it may also carry out other activities, but its subject matter and scope must comply with § 63 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Other activities shall be monitored separately from the main activity. If it is necessary for any activity, such as mining, the need to obtain a special permit, such permission must also be obtained by a state contribution organisation. The State contribution organisation may use the funds it has only for the purposes for which it is intended to cover the necessary needs, measures based on legislation and measures necessary to ensure the uninterrupted operation of the organisation. This means that the State contribution organisation cannot finance activities not listed in the establishment document. Where a State contribution organisation uses funds contrary to legal provisions, or contrary to the conditions under which it has been provided with State budget funds, it may commit a breach of budgetary discipline. Specific incentives for actions indicating a suspicion of a breach of budgetary discipline are appropriate to address the Financial Administration, which, at the same time, is the only one who has the authority to declare a breach of budgetary discipline. The specific information fulfilling the nature of the suspicion of a breach of budgetary discipline can thus be directed directly to the local competent financial authority. As a state organisation within the scope of Law No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, the Forest Administration of Lány is generally entitled to dispose of the property of the State with which it is responsible to manage if it becomes unnecessary for it and the non-necessity will be decided in accordance with § 14 para. 7 ZMS. It may dispose of such property for the benefit of a non-State entity - a legal or natural person - pursuant to § 19c para. 3 Only then, in principle, if the property was not affected by another state organisation under the responsibility of the ZMS or the organisational component of the State within the so-called "state'. national offers made in the case of movable goods pursuant to § 19c para. 1 sentence of the second ZMS on the website of the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. On sale, pursuant to Article 22 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 ZMS finds suitable buyers mainly in the form of a tender, event. the sale is carried out in a public auction or in a tender for the most appropriate offer. In justified cases direct sales of the selected person or exchange may also be made. According to Article 22 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 2 the sentence of the first ZMS must be agreed at least at the level that is normal at the given place and time, i.e. State organisations within the scope of the ZMS, as well as the organisational units of the State, should sell state property to non-State entities for at least as much as comparable assets in a comparable place and time are sold by other entities on the market. Acts indicating suspicion of breach of obligations in the management of foreign property, or other suspicion of fulfilment of the substance of criminal offences, shall be authorised to deal with law enforcement authorities. The suspicion of the way in which public contracts are executed, including the suspicion of undue division of the subject matter of public contracts in order to implement them under a more moderate regime, is competent to investigate the Office for the Protection of Competition. However, we add that information from the media also shows that police investigations have been under way in the case of contracts for the Forest Administration of Lana since last year. It cannot be excluded that this cannot affect the decisions of other control bodies, if and when they start their own verification in terms of their competence. It cannot also be excluded that, in view of the extent of the medialised information, the above mentioned authorities are no longer doing, within their respective scope, standard actions aimed at the use of relevant information in an adequate manner. If the Member is interested in helping to resolve the suspicions raised, she may properly identify these initiatives and, by their very nature, then also aim at the competent authority in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister. Furthermore, in the debate, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You basically read the answer here to my interpellation from Secretary Schillerová. I therefore conclude that the management of the Office of the President of the Republic does not concern you, you do not find, in fact, anything dubious, nor, for example, that they rent premises to the company, which subsequently sponsors through its employees the SPO, which clearly has a link to Mr. Chancellor Mynář. So, from this answer of yours, I have made the conclusion that I have mentioned. If that's not the case, I'll ask for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u57	The Prime Minister is not interested. The Prime Minister is still preparing for a follow-up answer. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u58	I think that, Mr President, you told me that there are about 250 laws in a row waiting to be discussed, so I'm surprised that the House didn't discuss laws today. And actually, this lady here interprets it as she likes. [[Voice from the right.]] Why do you say that? [[He's talking towards the right side of the hall.]] I didn't say anything like that. I've told you what competence we have, what competence I have. And if you're texting me and you're still testing me here and I'm still answering the same question, then file a criminal report. You don't get an interpelation on the camera there, but if you want to solve a problem and not actually repeat it over and over again, I clearly answered you, I don't have anything to say. And it doesn't mean that I have the opinion you're giving me here. That's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u59	Thank you. If no one signs up for debate - I ask my colleague Kovářová if she is interested in the motion for a resolution. It's not like that. So I can terminate the interpellation. We will continue to interpel Mrs Olga Richterová to the Prime Minister, but my colleague Richterová is excused, so she will not be involved. The Vice-President shall report outside the priority programme. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u60	Thank you. I would just like to apologize to my colleague Richterová, who gave the interview back in November in 2018. At the meeting of the House this interpelation was included in January 2019. Since then, it has been interrupted four times for the absence of the Prime Minister. And one day, when the Prime Minister was here, he didn't get in because of the interpellings that preceded it. I am very sorry that we cannot learn the answers today because the colleague had a medical procedure this week, so she is being treated at home and cannot be here with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u61	Thank you for the information, Mr. Vice-President. Interpelation is failing under the Rules of Procedure Act. We will continue, by interpelling Mrs Věra Kovářová, once again to the Prime Minister. And this interpelation under the House press 428 concerns the price of energy. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u62	Dear Prime Minister, I am responding to your response to the interpellation that was about the promise of maintaining cheap energy prices. However, as we know, electricity is currently increasing by about 10 and at the same time by 5%. In my question, I noted that this trend was also confirmed by the Energy Regulatory Authority, which set part of the price and announced that the regulated part of the electricity price would increase by 2.2% on average. Another reason for rising energy prices is, of course, the rising price of emission allowances and the situation on the world market. I was struck by the fact that in his pre-election vows... [[Voice from the right side of the hall.]] Sorry, I'm sorry. [[He's laughing.]] I thought it was a reaction to my interpelation, but it seems that... [[entertainment in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u63	No, it's not a reaction to your interpellation. Quiet in the Chamber, please. The Member will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u64	So we will return to your promise of maintaining cheap energy prices. In your answer, you basically asked why you didn't keep your promise, didn't answer. Respectfully, you replied in the sense that you listed what all external influences increase the price of energy in our country. So you can actually admit that de facto you can't influence the price of energy. You also did not answer the question of what steps the government is going to take to fulfill these promises about energy prices. So I'm asking you, Prime Minister, what about this promise, whether you will manage to keep cheap energy prices, is, and whether you knew in advance that this promise could not be fulfilled. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u65	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. The Prime Minister is claiming his word. And he also has a chance to answer right away. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u66	I really don't know what promise Mrs. Kovářová is talking about, or what promise you are talking about. You know, if there was a national plan, when we started building that capitalism and we didn't privatize everything. Oil, gas, coal, OKD, and I don't know what it's all about. We have nothing left. You know, if we had the energy in our hands, we could, of course, have a major impact on that. We can't even tell the CEZ how much it's worth to sell. So I don't understand what you're asking me. I don't know if you know we have capitalism or a market economy. And the state today, it sold almost everything. Everything. Water first. Yes. Everything people need. Water, electricity. Why did the traditional democratic parties put ČEZ in the coupon, don't you know? Then I could say to Mr Michálek here: "Yeah, now I'm going to the CEZ and I will tell Mrs Schillerová to act as the sole shareholder. Why did you put it in a coupon? You didn't keep anything. It's all gone. Coal brown, black, gas, oil. It's all gone. [[Restlessness in the Pirates' desks.]] We're still looking for the lithium.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u67	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask my colleagues for some peace! If you are discussing something other than this interpellation, please discuss it outside this O.R. or behave with dignity for this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u68	Well, I'd love to. I'd love to... and we're doing our best. But you know that the ERU is independent. You know that. ČTÚ is independent, which is why we have the most expensive mobile data. Investors, the monopoly took 55 billion dividends and they invested 55 billion more. We gave it all away. And who's the result? Do you know who ran this country? We are in some kind of situation, and after opening up the electricity and gas market, i.e. at the time of the free choice of the supplier of electricity or gas by each customer as a consumer, predatory practices of certain electricity traders or gas traders and persons who facilitate the change of the supplier of energy to the consumer began to appear. Such misleading practices by electricity and gas traders and energy intermediaries focus on the whole spectrum of energy consumers, in particular older consumers, who are less resistant to unfair behaviour and are more easily subject to snares and special-purpose promises. I didn't promise anything like that. I don't know where you got that. That's not even possible. We said we'd fight the people you privatized it to who you gave it to! For a kiss. The coal fees are fun. When I was Minister of Finance, I wanted to raise it ten times, so all in one hand, unionists, management, everyone screamed what the problem would be! Well, as long as they took 20 billion dividends. Tax havens, of course. So it is clear that in the Energy Act it is necessary to adapt the provisions on consumer protection in energy, to strengthen consumer protection. And the MIT submitted the material to the government, it's being discussed at the Working Commission of the Legislative Council of the Government and 29. 4. The government will discuss this. The proposed draft law also includes an amendment to the Energy Act, which aims to improve customer protection in the position of consumer in the field of energy trade. In particular, it is a prohibition on the recognition of any penalties in the event of the exercise of the right of withdrawal, the obligation to provide the consumer with a written copy of the undertaking entered into, and the response to the practice of the so-called. Energy bastards. Well, we inherited that, too. There you go. So many problems. So I'm surprised you're intersecting me in this direction, but I hope I was trying to explain. Unfortunately, there is, of course, the impact of the Greens in Europe and the European Parliament. Greens and pirát, that's actually the same thing. So in order to save the entire planet, we have 9.8% of the emissions. Europe. And it would be good for other countries to follow the conclusions of the climate agreement from Paris. So it doesn't happen to us that it's gonna have a big impact on us. We've been discussing this at the European Council. And that was typical of how Europe works. So we have the allowances because we're gonna save the planet, that's great, and I'm definitely in, and we're in. Water. And those allowances are worth something today. No one knows who determines it. Our companies are paying a lot of money for this. And, of course, this has an impact on European industry. So the allowances, of course, have an impact on the price of the energy. And now the question is, those green fanatics are gonna get us into that state that we're gonna be destroying the industry. Mrs Merkelová has spoken at the European Council, where some states have said: we should tighten the environmental objective, we should shorten it by 50 years. And then somebody said yes, but 2050, we can't even have cows in Europe anymore because they have emissions, too. And then what went down? There it went that Europe had come up with the idea of subsidizing solariums. And there was huge money for solariums. It was then found that European producers were not enough to produce. Otherwise, it's a thousand-billion-dollar tunnel, also the legacy of some politicians in our country. And what happened? Evropan weren't enough to produce. They started making Číňan. And today, only the Číňan produce solar panels. All European companies reportedly went bankrupt. So it's just that if everyone wants to make electric cars now - electric cars, we had colloquium for it. And this kind of golf electro and normal golf, when it compares, someone has to put 11,000 euros on that car that costs 32,000 euros to buy the car in the first place. Such an electric car has ten times less parts than a normal car. We can imagine the impact on industry. So that's what we've come up with in Europe, these goals. And it's great that we want to save the planet. The question is, do the others, too, the states like China, the United States, India, etc. And so that it doesn't happen to us again that... I asked the Škoda where the battery came from. Well, South Korea or China. I guess that's basic. So that it doesn't happen again that we're gonna find out in a few years, and everyone knows that electric cars are purely loss-making and that they're actually made by China, and then we're gonna have a major problem, depending on the car industry. Of course, these are the energy things. And the impact on those energy prices, yes, are these initiatives, and the question is whether Europe is overreacting and whether we should not perceive it comprehensively. So I certainly do, but I don't know how. We can't order anything, we can't, and we'd like to regulate the price of energy so that citizens don't pay that much money. I'm sure we do. But once again, I repeat our position. If you're worried about energy prices, it bothers me, too, and if you're gonna give us some kind of specific medicine to deal with in compliance with the laws and competences that we have in the state administration, I'm gonna be very happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u69	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Before we go any further, I state an apology, as of today's meeting, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes for working reasons. We have a factual comment from Mr Ferjenčík, and Mrs Kovářová is still preparing for the performance. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to the Prime Minister and offer him cooperation on increasing the mining fees. Pirates support it, too. We have 100 votes here. I believe that the 101st Member will be found in this House. At the same time, we think it should be accompanied by a reduction in labour taxation, which had both the YES movement and the pirát in the program. I think it would be a good idea to increase the revenue of the Treasury from mining fees while reducing labour taxation. It may as well be budget neutral. I take your word for it, and I believe the government will present it. That's one thing. Second thing. You said something about green fanatics. Unfortunately, as the biggest green fanatic, you are acting because you refuse to abolish the compulsory incorporation of biofuels into diesel, which is truly an absurd eco-fanatic policy from Brussels, and I fear you only support it because you are making money on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Kovářová. Or isn't he interested? So I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this issue. If not, my colleague does not propose a resolution, I can therefore end the intervention. We have two interpelations to the Minister of Justice of the Kněžínek. Since he is duly excused, I will propose a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies that both interpelations are postponed. I hope no one objects that we will vote on both interpelations at once. If that is not the case, we can vote on it. [[10.50 hours]] I've started voting number 70. I ask, who is in favour of deferring the question of intercession to Minister Kněžínek, who is duly excused? Who's against it? Thank you. For was 61 of the registered 114. These interpelations were postponed until next Thursday. We can therefore address the interception of Minister Alena Schillerová, a Member of Stanislav Blaha... whom I do not see here, and in his apologies he did not appear, if I am well informed. I'll check, the chairman of the club isn't here, because Mr. Blaha's colleague... Madam Secretary is here, and Mr. Colleague Blaha isn't. In that case, Mr. Blah's interpellation is failing. And, Secretary Maláčová, I have to see if she's excused... Mr. Stanjura is here, so he's not in the O.R. right now, but... In case he's not here, so is he. Madam Secretary, I'll see if she's excused. Mrs Maláčová is only excused until 11 o'clock, which is the time of the intercession, but my colleague Stanjura is not here either. So I have nothing left to say but that the interpellation of Mr Stanjura, if he doesn't show up in a moment and proposes a delay, so... Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u72	Mr President, by your means, I know that you are chairing now, but this procedure seems unfair to me with regard to Mr Stanjur, given that we have voted on the suspension of two interventions on the absent minister, without checking that there are Members present, and in this case we are verifying. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u73	I've waited long enough. Madam Secretary Schillerová is here. So in the meantime, there was also one chance, and I wouldn't want to... Okay. If it is not, then Mr Stanjura will certainly deal with it and propose to discuss it again, which he can. But at the moment, the answer is failing, which is why he's gonna have to interpel on this thing again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u74	I object to the President's procedure because at the moment when we postponed the two interpelations for the absence of the Minister and did not verify whether there is, whether there is a Member present or not, I find it extremely unfair to cancel an interpellation where it is exactly the same case. Exactly the same. I don't understand why, in the three interpellations that relate to the exact same thing, you guys do different things to each other. That's completely absurd. So I object to this procedure, I hope that the President will agree to it, otherwise we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u75	So if my colleague Stanjura is here, I'm sure he would like to propose a break in his interpellation to Mrs Maláčová, who is duly excused for not being in a unnecessary procedural trap.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u76	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, it went a little fast. [[The President smiled: Yes, it did.]] I'd be very sorry if we couldn't discuss the interview, because I haven't had such an arrogant answer yet. So I suggest we interrupt the discussion of this press into the presence of Secretary Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u77	Yes. Okay. I'll have the vote in '71. I'm asking who's in favour. I started voting number 71. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 71. From 116 to 78, against no one. The discussion of this interpelation has been interrupted into the presence of Secretary Jana Maláčová. Since we used up the interview program, we were left with no interview number 6, 7 and 9 with the fact that interpelation number 8 fell for Mr. Blah because at that moment he was not present in the hall. I've exhausted the agenda by 11 o'clock, and I'm interrupting the meeting by 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will now be dealing with points 215, 204 and 189. Then we will continue the points from the block of contracts in second reading. Let me remind you that this afternoon we'll be focusing on paragraph 218, which is oral questioning. In this context, one call or request. One of the Members - or Members - has submitted three interviews in writing to Vice Prime Minister Brabec. There's no way to solve the signature, there's no name, so please tell me who filed these three interpelations to sign up at the table of legislation. Thank you. Let me introduce you to the apologies that came in the meantime. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, from the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, today for personal reasons. And that's all at the moment. I'm asking if anyone is interested in making a motion to amend the approved agenda of the 28th meeting. I see Mr Luzar's written application here. So, Mr. Ambassador, come on, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to include a new item on the agenda for next Wednesday 24 as the first item. And that point would be the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the negotiations of Liberty House and ArcelorMittal following the decision of the European Commission. There has already been a debate on the future fate of ArcelorMittal Ostrava on this House. You all know that the conclusions remained in the position that there are a lot of unclear questions, and the government was asked to initiate the European Commission's negotiations to clarify these issues. The European Commission has sat down and decided that it is possible for Liberty House to acquire the stake in ArcelorMittal after clarifying two issues. Issues of funding and issues of emissions. But four more questions remain unclear, which are quite problematic, about the fate of the future. These questions concern the future of energy in this locality, the future of investments that have been promised but are nowhere. And, last but not least, the readiness for the future to function within the economic cycles that work, this company does not provide these questions. [[Nesroz.]] I would very much like to ask you here to include this point, because it will now begin after the European Commission has agreed - in my view it is a question of two months - a significant negotiation between ArcelorMittal and Libery House as a future acquirer. And I wonder how the government wants to address these issues, which remain in the air, and how it wants to ensure that the transition is painless, without any problems, without social fluctuations threatening my region. So I would ask you to support this inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u80	Thank you. I'll just make sure. Wednesday, 24th as the first item in the morning? [[Yes.]] Yes. Thank you. Mrs Jarošová will also speak with a proposal to amend the agenda for the meeting. Please take your word for it. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and let us hear the proposals that are tabled to amend the agenda for the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies for a solid inclusion of voting points on the agenda of the meeting, number 172 - Proposal for the election of members of the Council of the State Cinema Fund, number 173 - Proposal for the Chamber of Deputies to elect candidates for the members of the Council of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, number 174 - Proposal for the election of members of the Supervisory Board of the Wine Fund, and number 175 - Proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the Czech Press Office. On Friday, April 26, 2019 as the second to fifth point for item 170, which is a proposal to amend the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u82	Yes, I understand. Before I ask if anyone else is applying, Mr Luzar will speak with some clarification of his proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u83	I'm sorry. It's just about putting the program on Wednesday 24th as a second point. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-001-217.u84	Yeah, like the second point. Anyone else on the agenda, please? No, we will therefore vote on the proposals we have heard. [[The President shall negotiate outside the microphone with the representative of the legislative department.]] Yes, thank you, that's a good point I received from the legislation here. Mr. Luzar. We don't have anything listed on Wednesday the 24th morning. What's the reason it should be the second point and for what? We only have a 14.30 point 22, citizenship at second reading. [[An arrangement outside the microphone with Mr. Luzar.]] We will therefore vote that the proposal you made, the position of the Government of the Czech Republic, will be placed on Wednesday 24. 4:00 a.m. as the first point. Isn't that right? Yes.) Okay. So we're going to vote on this. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 72. 137 Members are registered, for 72, against 46. The motion was accepted. That's the point we've put in. We will now vote on Mrs Jarošová's proposals to include on Friday 26. 4. as a second to fifth point for point 170, points 172, 173, 174 and 175, which are voting points for the election of members of the State Fund of Cinema, Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, Wine Fund and Council of the Czech Republic. Is it okay for us to approve this with one vote, or does anyone wish to vote individually? No. So we're going to vote on the inclusion of these points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote 73. 137 Members are registered, for 129, against no one. We're on Friday 26th. 4. Placed. This has dealt with the vote with all the proposals for changing the agenda of our meeting. In the meantime, there was an apology. Mr Robert králíček apologizes from 14:30 to 19:00 for family reasons today. We will now proceed to discuss the fixed item number
