ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u1	308. Position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the prohibition of lead in shell and fishing oil I shall ask the appellant of this point, Mrs Jana Černochová, who, if she agrees, will be the rapporteur and will be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. Thank you. If you have anything to do, please leave the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, I would like to thank you all for putting this item on the agenda. I do not want to delay this meeting, as I have promised, so I will no longer mention all the reasons for including a point called Position of the Government of the Czech Republic to ban lead in the shell and the fishing roll. But let me remind you in a nutshell... [[It's being silenced for the noise in the room. The President is ringing the bell, the O.R. is getting quieter.]] ... that, according to the available information, the ban on lead in the shell and the fishing wolves should be extended in the future from or outside the marshes. The ban would thus be much wider and negatively affect our citizens, our shooters, the arms industry, hunters, athletes and members of associations. [[14.50 hours]] The European Commission requested the European Chemicals Agency on 16 July 2019, so-called "the European Chemicals Agency'. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 69 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 in accordance with Article 69 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The first REACH Regulation prepared a proposal limiting the placing on the market and use of: 1. lead in missiles in areas other than wetlands, i.e. a general prohibition; 2. lead in other types of ammunition used either in wetlands or use in wetlands or territories other than wetlands; 3. lead in fishing gear - such as known fishing weights. I have sent the European Commission's request to all members of the Defence Committee, and I have introduced the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies with it. I gave it to the Prime Minister and Minister Brabco. During the process, this proposal will be consulted with the Member States before possible adoption, but we should send a clear and understandable signal today... [[She is turning to the President and the Minister of Finance, who speaks behind her back.]] But I really can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u3	Madame, please contact me if necessary, and I will arrange for peace in the hall, no matter how much we shout at each other. Thank you. And I'm going to ask the debate participants in the government's desk to move on, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But if my colleagues don't have the decency and they're having fun right behind the speaker's back, then I'd like to ask you to handle the order more often so that I don't have to do it. It doesn't make me happy. Thank you. [[The Treasury Secretary is leaving.]] So we should send out a clear and understandable signal today, so that we do not fall as in the case of similar nonsense bans by the European Commission. I would like to hear at least a few sentences from the members of the government. I know that neither the Minister of the Environment nor the Prime Minister is here, that they are at a meeting in New York, so, of course, I do not require the statement of the Ministry of the Environment here. But I hope that perhaps the Minister of Agriculture or one of the members of the government here will give the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment. There is, of course, also the Minister of the Interior Hamáček, who is also concerned. So I would ask that the very clear word from someone who is here should also be heard. I would therefore like to ask that, through ministers, we be able to get acquainted with the issue and the position on this matter. Dear colleagues, there was a meeting of the Defence Committee on 18 September 2019, where we took the initiative to address the issue, because the Security Committee acted at a later date before this House, which had it classified as a fixed point. Otherwise, of course, the Security Committee would also comment on this. In any case, the Defence Committee has dealt with this quite in detail, and the result was the adoption of the following - I note the compromise - resolution number 125, which received absolute support from this committee. Allow me to introduce you to this resolution. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Chair of the Committee Mgr. After the debate, Jana Černochová proposes the following resolution to the Chamber of Deputies: The Chamber of Deputies, in the spirit of its resolution number 1190 adopted on 20 April 2016 at its 44th meeting in the 7th parliamentary term - that is, if I read this proposal then in a detailed debate, this will be the case, the resolution will be the same as that of the committee resolution. And now I'm going to introduce you to the seven points: I. continues to refuse that the institutions of the European Union interfere in a functional system of control, registration, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition established by the law of the Czech Republic; II. Calls on the European Commission to keep a strict eye on the principle of proportionality and non-discrimination of the Member States of the European Union in the processing and presentation of any Union legislation and not to abuse its right to adopt implementing rules with the so-called direct effectiveness, thereby making it difficult for the proper and full consideration of proposals in the other elected bodies of the European Union; III. Calls on all the institutions of the European Union to keep a strict eye on the principle of proportionality and non-discrimination of the Member States of the European Union in the processing and approval of any Union legislation; IV. Calls on the Prime Minister to take all legal and diplomatic steps to prevent the adoption of such EU legislation which would undermine the Czech rule of law in the field of trade, control, acquisition and possession of arms and thereby inappropriately interfere with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic; V. Calls on the Government to be active in negotiating with other members of the European Union in the event of further action in the regulation of lead in the shell and fishery oil and in the legal possession of arms, thereby ensuring the necessary support and allies to halt the unjustified restrictions on citizens' rights; VI. Calls on the Prime Minister to initiate new negotiations on how functional measures will be developed to combat illegal trade, acquisition, possession and other illegal handling of arms, ammunition and explosives within European Union countries; VII. Instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies to present this resolution to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament and other representatives of the institutions of the European Union and the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. I, too, would like to thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who, I can say, has also worked in some way on the text. Because the idea of joining another country together with the Czech Republic came from him. And I think only the pressure, if it's from several countries, and hopefully at least from the V4 countries, so if this succeeds, then there's a better chance of success. Here I would very much like us not to miss the opportunity to respond and to - because we cannot use the Yellow or Red Card Institute here - to really be able to stop these tendencies at the beginning. I think that we should certainly try to negotiate a negotiating majority or blocking minority, so that this madness with lead can actually be stopped. Thank you for your attention and thank you, on the one hand, for being willing to deal with this issue, and thank you for adopting the resolution that we, together with our colleagues in the Defence Committee, have prepared. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u5	Thank you, Madame. Before the debate starts, I have three applications with priority rights. Before opening the point, Vice-President Okamura made a written request, then the Minister of Health asked for the floor, who will present the opinion of the absent Minister of the Environment. And then the Home Secretary came forward. So I'll ask Vice-President Okamura, you have the floor. Please note that we are not yet in the debate; it is not possible to make a factual comment. When I open the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I welcome the effort to open the topic of the protection of fishermen and shooters in the House, as I have been a holder of both arms and weapons for twenty years and an active member of the sports shooting club. So I'm glad that for us, for the shooters we've been doing this for a long time, we can discuss this issue here. And it scares us that we, the legal holders of weapons and fishermen, are trying and going to deliberately restrict the European Union, repeatedly. For the SPD, we will always fight for the interests of legal holders of weapons and fishermen. As has already been said, this July the European Commission asked the European Chemicals Agency to prepare a proposal that would continue to restrict shooters and fishermen. And I must say, this is an absolutely unacceptable matter for us. At the beginning of this year, the Eurofanatics on the forehead with Euro MP Zdechovský from KDU-ČSL tried to fool us into saying that preparing for the ban on lead in missiles or olympics during fishing is a hoax and that there is no danger of such a thing. Anyone can track these statements. Of course, those who remember similar lies about the absence of a ban on lead in solders and the like did not believe these Eurofanatics. We all know that the Brussels European Commission is like a jeez - you give them a finger and they'll rip your arm off with an elbow. This comparison is more than accurate. Brusel forbids everything, regardless of the practical implications, whether the benefits of the ban cause much more damage than what they wish to prohibit. We remember the ban on lead thermometers. The only ones who profited from this were and are manufacturers of digital thermometers, which, to the detriment of patients and doctors, are of course not only more expensive but also less accurate, are significantly less reliable and of course have a much lower lifespan. So they have all the advantages for manufacturers, but they are paid not only by patients, but literally by all taxpayers. I welcome the effort to open up the topic of the protection of fishermen and shooters in the House, but it is also important that the MEPs of the mainstream parties in the European Parliament and our representatives in the European Commission, which is the author of most of the European crap, show such an attitude and interest. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the alleged advocates of Czech interests in the European Union either remain silent - as Commissioner Jourová for the ANO movement, and her party in the European Parliament is also silent - that is, the YES movement - or they lie hard as folklore. And I set an example here. In fact, we all know that the faction in which the YES movement is, on the contrary, creates and actively supports all kinds of bans. Sadly, Czech citizens are being fooled by lying campaigns in the Czech Republic, which unfortunately lie shamelessly about someone defending their interests in Brussels. As far as the planned ban on lead itself is concerned, the only place in the world where the use of lead in bullets is prohibited is California, but even there is a ban on hunting only. The European Union's proposal is thus completely out of control and there is a legitimate suspicion that it is part of the long-term Eurohujers' campaign against the legal possession of weapons. These insane brains are typical examples of Brussels' policy, and similar Euro directives harm us all - both citizens and the economy and our freedom. And unfortunately, it's not a single fad, it's a system error. This is centralism in decision-making planning. This is what our Czechoslovak socialism died of, the idea that it can order and arrange a few chosen ones somewhere in Brussels or Moscow. There's a buried dog. And in this, the current European Union is no different from totalitarian communism. Brusel and Eurofanatics are gradually cutting off our freedom, our sovereignty, and gradually breaking into our homes, spying on us, and ordering us to live. True, even the biggest Stalinists didn't think to order how many liters of water I can flush, what light bulb I can shine, or whether a fisherman can have a tail. People are being punished nowadays not just for saying or writing what they think. Brussels is gradually taking away our freedom. It is not just lead, but, above all, the freedom of our country, the freedom of citizens to decide how we live. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom is what's going on here. This is a reminder to all lovers of Eurocentralism and Bruslocrats. It's about freedom, and if you feel that they're just taking that freedom away from us patriots, some russophiles, and other people you hate, then believe that it doesn't end with us and our freedom, because once you start taking it away from others, then you will lose that freedom too. And then it'll be too late to complain that you didn't mean it like that. Freedom and democracy have no attributes and must apply to all, because if it does not apply to all, then it is no longer freedom or democracy. Think of it, my dear government, that in the name of the so-called good, the greatest evil has always been done. And, of course, we would like to be happy, because it is likely that this resolution from the Defence Committee, for which our Members have also voted, of course, will be - I hope - accepted, but now it is a question of what the government will do about it, because we have seen it here, when we have talked about the global pact and refugees and about migration and other things, that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is holed up here on the one hand, as he is against migration, while voting abroad for migration and his MEPs are also voting in the European Parliament for migration. So, on the one hand, we are pleased that the first step, that is to say, the adoption of a resolution on the committee, and now we are ahead of the second step that this resolution will also be adopted here in the House, a resolution that calls on the Government to reject the European Union's institutions being disproportively involved in matters in the Czech Republic, namely the restriction of shooters and fishermen, and that the Prime Minister takes all steps to prevent this legislation. But what happens if he takes all the steps -- like, on the outside, and we know that government officials are very good at simulating it -- but it's finally gonna be accepted, and we're gonna be back here with a cross after a funeral. And once again, the debate here is that the only solution is to get out of the European Union, because otherwise, the salami method will gradually limit us here. And we're saying the subject, of course, right here. So we are happy for the activity that the shooter here supports us with a wider political spectrum, but I hope that this will come to some real solution, because, as we know, how it goes with the gun directive and other things, so the European Union courts eventually force states to submit to that dictation anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u7	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister of Health, with the opinion of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly inform you of the development of the European Commission's legislative proposal to amend Annex 17 to Regulation No 17. A substance known as REACH forbidding the use of lead-containing ammunition for shooting in wetlands. This proposal has been the subject of your attention since October last year, when Mrs Černochová asked several members of the government, including the Minister of the Environment, a number of questions on this issue in her interview with regard to the prohibition of lead in the shell and the fishing olympic. I will now try briefly to recapitulate the reasons for submitting a legislative proposal and to inform the state of its deliberations. The exclusion of the use of lead-containing ammunition over the next three years calls for a resolution and a directive of the Bonn Convention on the Protection of Migratory Species of Wild Animals adopted at the Conference in 2014. The issue is also addressed in the resolution of the AEWA Agreement on the protection of migratory species of water birds in Africa and Eurasia and the Berne Convention on the protection of European fauna, flora and habitats. The same calls for the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, in particular as water bird biotopes. The Czech Republic is a party to all these international conventions. [[15.10 hours]] Pursuant to REACH, lead is a substance of very high concern. The European Commission therefore asked the European Chemicals Agency, hereinafter referred to as ECHA, for information on the potential risks of using lead in the shell used in hunting and, in particular, in wetland fishing. On 17 September 2018, ECHA published a review report on available information processed in accordance with the requirements of REACH. The report shows that the above-mentioned uses of lead pose a significant risk to the environment and human health. On the basis of this information, ECHA recommended to the European Commission a proposal to ban the use of lead-containing ammunition in wetland shooting. This proposal was discussed between September and December 2018 by two ECHA expert committees which recommended the proposal for approval. The Czech Republic is represented in both committees by experts who have identified the conclusions. The next step in the legislative process is to discuss the proposal in the Committee on Co-Comitology of the European Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Committee. At the meeting of that Committee of 14 May 2016 2. 2019 was the first discussion of the proposal, which was adopted positively by most member countries - including the Czech Republic. Some countries expressed their opinion that the proposal was not ambitious enough to demand an extension of the ban to other types of ammunition, with which other Member States - including the Czech Republic again - disagreed. The Committee meeting of 17 to 18 September 2019 was to hold a vote on the proposal, but the European Commission decided to withdraw it at the last minute, with the fact that it is likely to submit it again in November of this year. The government of the Czech Republic fully shares the view of the unacceptable total ban on the use of lead in ammunition, especially in the ammunition used by the military and police. However, the other side of the matter cannot be ignored, i.e. lead is a heavy toxic metal that poses a significant health risk. The discussion of a certain degree of restrictions on the use of lead is therefore legitimate, but it is always necessary to take into account the context in which lead ammunition is used, its functionality. It is also necessary to demonstrate the environmental impacts of substitutes, as well as the socio-economic acceptability of alternatives. The problem is addressed by the Ministry of Environment in close cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, which represents the Czech Republic in the European Defence Agency. Together we formulate the view that the ban on lead in ammunition used by defence and security forces is not possible. We believe that a legislative proposal for a broad ban on lead in the shell will be put forward shortly because the vast majority of the Member States have the same view. If this happens, we are prepared to promote the above-mentioned position at all levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u9	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the Minister of the Interior, who is registered with priority right before the debate is opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, allow me also a few words on the subject. I would like to thank Mrs Černochová for addressing this issue and pointing out any problems that might arise as a result of the efforts of the European institutions to improve environmental protection. And I say that I personally have nothing against those initiatives that serve to protect the environment, but I find this very problem difficult. The truth is that there is simply no alternative to lead ammunition and the alternatives mentioned today cannot be used for all kinds of weapons. If ammunition exists and is tested, it appears to have other physical and chemical properties, and there is a significantly higher risk of dangerous reflections in terms of safety, such as impact on a hard surface or water level. Of course, alternative missiles, if they exist, reduce the life of weapons and, in the case of older weapons, can cause their destruction and possibly injury to the shooter. So, if there was a ban on lead-containing ammunition, it would have been the full effect of the Police of the Czech Republic. For the record, the police use more than 13 million ammunition each year. It's about 80 to 90 tons of lead. So, of course, a total ban would mean a major reduction in the readiness of police members, and therefore we cannot agree with the initiative that would go in that direction under the Ministry of the Interior. I understand that this is primarily in the Ministry of the Environment, and I am glad that Minister Brabec has made it clear through the Minister of Health that the Ministry of the Environment is ready to fight against efforts to ban ammunition completely. However, since, from my point of view, this is also a security issue, I will contact my colleagues with a letter where I will draw their attention to this matter and ask them to do so within their department. In October, the Council of Ministers awaits us in Luxembourg and, at least informally, if possible, I will also formally try to open this subject up there, so as to find out what the positions of the individual ministers of the interiors of the Member States of the European Union are. I am convinced that they will share ours because I cannot imagine a minister who would accept such a fundamental reduction in police capacity, but it is good to open this subject up and find moods in individual Member States. Again, I have nothing against nature protection, a whole series of initiatives going in the right direction, but this is a step wrong and it is necessary to use common sense. It reminds me a little bit of a debate when there were attempts to introduce emission standards on military cars and tanks. I guess that misses the effect, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u11	Thank you. I am opening a general debate on this issue, in which Mr Radek Koten is the first to be joined at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I would like to point out to other colleagues who have made a point of fact that they can only apply now after the debate has been opened and after the first post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, fellow ministers - there is no minister yet. I thank my previous speakers for summing up basically very well structured responses to what would actually bring us a broad ban on lead in weapons, ammunition and fishing nuts. It may be even worse, because if you take that Olympic discipline or ordinary diabolles that have been used here for years - so the only metal that is considered to be roughly equivalent to its lead properties, that means it is soft, malleable and has the required weight due to its volume, is gold. So I can't imagine that this metal would be replaced with gold in small-scale bullets or diabolles. I think the European Union's environmentalists have gone a little overboard. Furthermore, I would point out here that since leaded gasoline ceased to be used and other petrol with other additives started to be used, the number of areas at risk in Europe has fallen from 70 percent to about 8 percent. So that was in 2000 - if there were any other statistics, I assume that we are now moving around 4 percent of the territory, i.e. in half of the original 8 percent. Furthermore, I would say that police officers and all shooters, whether they are sports shooters, except, of course, those shooters who shoot animals and use ammunition to hunt, so the vast majority of the lead that is in the missiles will be fired at the shooting range, where, thanks to the purchase price, this lead is very well recycled. So we would have to ban lead in auto-batteries, for example, if we were to approach it this way. We'd have to ban lead from, like, X-ray machines where it's used to shield from gamma rays, and so on. And we could really extend it to everything by now. And since the European Union believes that the ban is very ambitious, I am a little bit afraid of these things. A little bit too much. Otherwise, as far as the economic impact is concerned, specifically the Ministry of the Interior, according to what the Minister said here, would have been quite brutal. Given the number of shots fired, it would mean a rather drastic increase in the budget in the ammunition chapter, because the classic missile used most in police weapons, i.e. Luger 9, can now be purchased around CZK 5 and, after the ban on lead, hold on, around CZK 20 to 25. It's a calculation that was calculated by one of our largest ammunition manufacturers, Sellier&Bellot. [[15.20 hours]] I ask, then, who would benefit most from this ban? Not to the shooters, definitely not. The Ministry of the Interior and its armed forces, such as the Prison Service, the Police of the Czech Republic and other security forces, would certainly not benefit at all. So I think because it says on Wikipedia that lead is a relatively stable element that doesn't form in the normal environment, it dissolves only concentrated nitric acid, which I don't expect in our environment. And the only thing that lead does in nature, or wherever the bullet is, when it needs to be clad with some other metal, for example, with the larger calibers, the only thing that it is, the surface turns gray and in some way oxidizes. So the impact on the environment from this point of view is very minimal. I'd hate to see us ride on some eco-terrorist wave that's now being launched worldwide, and it's going to destroy it in some way, and it's going to put our national security at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next is Mrs Langšádlová's report to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that this point that we are discussing is not so much about lead, hunters, fishers, but about how we communicate issues relating to the European Union. We've got over 200 prints here. We haven't been able to discuss Senate vomit in time, and that rarely happens. And yet we're going to place this point. What's going on at this point? The way I see it is that there is a proposal from the European Commission concerning the use of lead in wetlands, and there is actually a report here that shows that lead is toxic. And then there's the proposal to process some possible other steps and adjustments that would be submitted. What would that mean if they were presented? It would mean that they would be re-evaluated. It would mean that they would be representatives of the Czech Republic in all these discussions. They would be there as our representatives in the European Parliament, but especially our representatives, who are at the Ministry of the Environment. And there, as I have learned with repeated consultations, it is very unlikely that a similar proposal would actually pass, because the resistance is - not only are we fighting here from the Czech Republic, but it is across Europe. I think that this point is more about how we are actually communicating issues relating to the European Union. This is also evidenced by how the European Union is perceived here. You know, I would put it in the context of looking at statistics now, and I saw that even in countries where there is a relatively critical approach to the European Union, such as Hungary, 52 percent of Maďar support European integration and it is growing, in Poland they support European integration of 54 percent of the population and it is growing, and in the Czech Republic - let's not be surprised - 36 percent. You know, this isn't really about lead, hunters and fishers. That's how we talk about it. This is about raising these issues on some kind of emotional level and building it so that we must fight against the European Union. But we are the European Union. We are part of the European Union. And I have no doubt that our representatives will also defend us well in negotiating those proposals that the European Commission may propose. I really think that it is not entirely appropriate to discuss these proposals and to assign them to the plenary of our Parliament. I believe that we can be critical of the proposals put forward by the European Commission, but please do so in substance. It's really not possible to fight at all costs. We don't know what this proposal will look like yet, but it's high time we fought it. You know, we may not realize that we are really making the Czech public's attitudes towards European integration as such worse. And I just don't think it's responsible. I would be in favour of waiting for those proposals that are really going to be to discuss matters. Lead is, when a colleague here quoted Wikipedia, he also learns that lead is toxic metal. That's just reality. Lead is toxic metal. And we certainly know from history that lead has been able to cause the deaths of many people, because in the past lead has been used considerably more. We know it's toxic metal that has a negative impact on the body's health. It's perfectly legitimate to have this processed. It's perfectly legitimate to talk about those proposals that are and will, because there's nothing wrong with that. And then let's talk about whether the proposals that are made are appropriate. But linking it to some struggle against the European Commission's wish to harm our fishermen and hunters, I think it is not appropriate. Let us not fight against what we do not yet know what is the essence of this. And let's behave appropriately. Let us be reasonable and factual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u15	Thank you, Madame. I have three factual points here - Mr Holík, Mr Ondráček, then Mrs Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. More or less, both ministers and colleague Koten have said the most important thing, why not adopt this directive. I can say one thing myself. Lead is relatively noble, non-cording metal. If we use steel pellets or steel missiles, iron is relatively corrosive and always poisonous are salts. Then another thing. If the army and the police are equipped with bullets with lead and I, as a civilian, have bullets with a steel head, I'll shoot bulletproof vests. So it turns out completely different. It's turning more in favor of terrorists. And then it was said here, during the shooting with steel shots or with a steel ball there is excessive wear on the main. And the abrasions, they're microscopic particles of steel, we're going to inhale them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u17	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, Minister, I have listened with interest both to the introductory words of Mrs Černochová and to the speeches of both ministers and now of both previous speakers. Basically, Ms. Langšádlová's statement made it clear why to pull down pants, for the ford is still far away. My colleague says, let's get ready, the water's big, it can wipe us out. [[Black]] You know, I sometimes think about the whole functioning of the European Union and sometimes, as I do in my mind, I wonder what the European Union is doing to us and what the European Commission is doing to us there. Missiles to the left, missiles to the right, migrants everywhere. And we're dealing with an olympic. Olympus for fishermen and, of course, bullets or lead in ammo. Sometimes I would like to ask the government to invite those people from the European Union to the Czech Republic. I would really like to see these people sometimes see what they look like, if they really look like - I can't use that expression - whether they're really what I think they are, or whether they just live in a completely different world than I do, or Mrs Černochová, or even you, who will support this proposal, virtually. the resolution that my colleague has read. I dare say, my colleague, I may give you a kiss of death, but you're used to it from me. I will support your proposal on all the points that you are proposing, I believe that most of the KSČM Members' Club, too, because crap must be resisted and this is one of the ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u19	Thank you. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I give the floor to Mrs Černochová's de facto comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say to you by means of my honourable colleague, Mrs Langšádlová, that 174 Members voted in favour of this item, so I do not like the fact that the House of Deputies here doubts that it has decided in some way that it considers this a priority. Unfortunately, from Mrs Langšádlová's speech, she is clear of the absolute ignorance of this issue. He's referring here to something that's not written anywhere. No studies she mentioned here, none of us came in or sent them to us. What the Minister of Health mentioned here, and I thank you for speaking for the Minister here, these are old studies that are already under a ban on wetland. That's already in our legislation. So please first, if you want to stand here and defend the European Union, no one is stopping you from doing this, but first, study something, because what has been said here has really gone a long way into expertise. And that's exactly why I think we're supposed to talk about this here. Because with a number of colleagues, it leaves the feeling that whoever is fighting for the shooter here, for the hunters, for the fishermen, doesn't really like the European Union. That is not the case at all, my colleague through the Vice-President! On the contrary, here the European Union has a unique opportunity to show that it will not really accept any more absolute nonsense here. Maybe my colleague didn't register what the Home Secretary Hamáček said. We want a safe Czech Republic and we want a safe Czech Republic with security forces that will be well trained, which will have high-quality equipment and equipment, and those police officers, if they can't train because one shot comes out at 20, maybe 40 crowns, so how does it show up? [[Time warning]] Negative, of course!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u21	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u22	Thank you for the floor. I just completely respect how many colleagues have decided to support this point, and that is why we are discussing it here today. Of course, I also know about the measures taken in the wetland area. I just want to say that then I understand less why the Defence Committee discussed this when the military has an exception, but please. And here it has been said several times why not adopt this directive, so I would like to quote you from the information sent to me by the director of the Environmental Risks and Environmental Damage Department of the Ministry of the Environment, which, I assume, is properly informed and where this sentence is. I ask that we listen to each other well: the issue of a general ban on lead in ammunition is quite different and, first of all, no specific legislative proposal has been tabled. So at this point we are actually fighting, at any cost we are fighting, against something that has not been put forward, so we cannot even talk in substance about what we are fighting for, but we are fighting against the European Union because some are happy to hear it. Thank you. It was not really about the fact that we could not be critical of the European Union, individual proposals, but we really should define ourselves against something we know about, but it is hard to define ourselves against a proposal that has not yet been submitted by the representatives of the Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u23	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u24	Thank you for the floor. Allow me a short reaction to stand up for my colleague. After all, no one disputes the sovereign right of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this matter whenever it wishes, but let us consider the diction of the debate when at the moment when we have no idea what proposal will be on the table, so we are inclined to scream never again and let us not talk about it at all, do not touch us, the evil European Union, our lead. I think that just wait for at least the basic legislative proposal, which can be effective, which can be good, because lead is just a poisonous element, or there can also be absolute stupidity and, on that basis, simply take a position, either at the level of the government or at the level of the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the only rational procedure. But somehow be extremely concerned or pretend to be extremely concerned at a time when we really don't know if anything will be proposed at all and if it is, what it will be, it is a discussion that I understand very little. Otherwise, Mr Ondráček expressed his wish to meet those people from the European Union. It's not a problem. Several Čech work on DG Environment. The highest-ranking Čech was the CEO of this DG, it was Mr. Ladislav Miko, Minister of the Environment of the First Government of Topolánek, and it is certainly available to anyone for consultation in the Czech Republic. It is true, Mr Ondráček, that he is not in your world. In November 89 he stood on the other side and it lasted until today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u25	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Jiří Mašek and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. You're pulling back, okay. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are two points very briefly. We could talk about lead toxicity here, but we all know we drank lead pipe water a few decades ago. We didn't die on it, it's still in some places today, and it's also abroad. So we can't really talk about lead toxicity here and speculate. Another thing that is here is the question to mention also hunters in the sense of shooting animals and the possibility of killing animals in a humane way, and not just those animals shoot with steel pellets, respectively, threatening other hunters by making these bullets of steel reflect. The reasons why we need to be vigilant about what is going on in the European Commission in terms of the ban on lead, I think that we need to address this in any case and prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u27	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate in which Mr Jiří Kobza will speak, Mrs Jarošová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear gentlemen, Minister, dear colleagues, I would like to follow up on my previous speakers here, and if we go back to Budulínek, I think they will teach their children a slightly different version of this fairy tale, that at the moment when the Jezinky started sticking their fingers behind the goal, the Budulínek took the polínko and took them through the fingers, then closed the door and went to play. The message is that things are to be dealt with when they can be solved, and not when the water is up to our necks, we start looking for a dam. That's one thing. [[15.40 hours]] Second thing. To get back to my original qualifications as a geologist. So lead is present in nature, and in some areas even very abundantly, in the form of a mineral galenite - a sulphur of lead. So it's part of our biotope. It's part of the environment we live in. When it comes to missiles, we find lead bullets on old battlefields that are 250 years old and over. And the missiles are still there. They didn't melt, they didn't absorb. Just like coworker Koten said, they scurried and stayed as it should be. However, I would like to mention one more group of residents, which will touch this regulation very painfully and essentially destroy them more or less, and these are shooters from historical weapons. Those are the shooters who shoot muskets, flint guns, percussion weapons, where lead is the only possible material used for missiles. So it concerns all the clubs of military history, all the historical clubs, swordsmen's clubs, shooting clubs. And we can say that because these are weapons that are not registered under our legislation, we can say that they are at least a few tens of thousands of shooters. So there's one thing we need to realize. The debate - and I thank Mrs Černochová, that we can have this discussion here now, even in time, until we can say in advance how we are going to look at it - is affecting a fairly broad area of the population. Wider than anyone could possibly imagine. And when I return to Mrs Langšádlová's contribution, I think that this whole idea of a ban on lead only shows how far away the members of the European Commission are from real life and the reality of the matter at all. So we will certainly support the resolution that will stand up for this proposal. We support our citizens, our hunters, our shooters, our historical shooters, and basically all those who come in contact with shooting sports, whether professionally or sportically, or just as fun. Because if we cancel the lead - and as Koten mentioned, the gold that is closest to him is another atomic number - then perhaps we can only start using depleted uranium according to the model of the U.S. Army. And I'm not sure it would work either. [[with laughter]] I can't imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u29	Well, thank you. Next in the general debate, Mrs Jarošová, will be prepared by Mrs Fialová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present here the opinion of the SPD on the EU directive, which introduces the regulation of lead in the shell and the fishing roll. The SPD is refusing EU institutions to intervene in arms regulation in the Czech Republic. Following the EU directive, which restricts our legal arms holders, there comes another restriction on the freedom of our citizens. Since 2010, the directive on the regulation of lead in wetlands has been in force. These are further systemic restrictions on legal holders of weapons, hunters, sports and interest shooters and fishermen. The SPD is refusing the EU institutions to intervene in a functional system of production, control, registration, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition established by the Czech law. The government of YES, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, should take all legal and diplomatic steps to prevent the adoption of such EU legislation which would undermine the Czech rule of law and thereby inappropriately interfere with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, I have Mr Zdeněk Podal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only possible impression I have of this, and that is to divide and conquer. I read on Facebook the EU's position - fishing must give way to nature conservation. I understand that. Al. There are words here that we should submit to etcetera. Fishing organizations throughout Europe - I am allowed to speak because I am myself a fisherman of the Czech Fisheries Union. Fishing organisations from all over Europe are protesting loudly, a number of texts from the ranks of fishing representatives have appeared on the Internet. So they're against the Němec, the Fin, the Švéd. Of course our Czech Fishing Union. I'm afraid of one thing. Of course it will, we all know how. In the end, fishermen will catch the weight of concrete. They'll come up with different substitutes. That's what we're talking about today. But what's next? I'm asking, what's next? How far is this going to go? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u33	Well, thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mrs Eva Fialová, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u34	Good afternoon. Allow me to comment on the use of lead. It's a good thing we're talking about this here today, because when the proposal's on the table, it's gonna be too late. However, it is pointless to be subject to unnecessary fear that this will happen. Now, let me share my personal experience with you. I worked for x years as a specialist for the introduction and application of REACH in one chemical enterprise. And I don't think anyone knows exactly what these procedures are. So REACH itself, which is the EU's chemical legislation that was created to register, authorise and authorize the chemicals themselves, so it had a major purpose to capture all the use of chemicals, whether in the environment, and especially those that enter the food chain. Lead gets into the food chain due to its use in missiles, which is why it has this regard. However, each of these uses is being investigated. There are many experts, many people who evaluate things from the front to the back. It's progressing to various committees. Each of the Member States can comment on this, having its representatives, by whom the Lord is our Ministry of the Environment, and defending very reasonable views. And now for the personal experience. When applying fertilizers to agricultural land, one of the proposals of this committee was to put on - and now hold on - deer, hare and vole glasses. That's a simple fact. It never happened. Because of the emergence of initiatives that are completely illogical, which fall here today - and I thank you for that. It is necessary to give a clear signal that this use is annihilation for us, that it is completely safe and that we do not want to go in this direction. Just one comment. I would hate to link security here, because really safety and for military purposes is generally excluded from the use of REACH. Thank you, and... It's exempt really, so read... as REACH. [[He's talking towards the messenger. Black guys.]] Where, if it's for military purposes, it really is. Military purposes. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u35	Well, okay. You guys get this straight?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u36	I just... At this point, the directive really isn't on the table yet. But thank you for the signal, and it needs to be sent. Everything for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u37	Thank you. There. We have three factual points here. The first is Mr Radek Koten, Mr Vácha and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond briefly to my previous speaker here. I was very amused by the way lead gets into that food chain. Come on, logically. If I shoot an animal on a hunt and then I have to have it for dinner, I really have to be careful not to get that shot, too, right? That's logical. But otherwise, our agrochemical activity has also been mentioned here, which we are doing in the cultivation of plants in our fields, and I would say that there is a much bigger problem than the lead that the European Commission is now bending through the European Union. Because we're using quite a lot of poisons here, both against pests that are alive and against molds and the like. And of course, all these substances get into the environment and then into the bottom waters. So we're really here by banning the use of lead in the shell and in the fishing nuts, we're actually making fun of our shooters and fishermen here. Or the European Commission is joking. Because if it was really about environmental protection, then the shit that's used in our fields would really stop being used there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u39	Thank you. Mr Vácha, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'm just talking to a colleague who was performing in front of a colleague named Koten. I just looked at some fishing site and there are estimates of how much lead can get through fishermen into the waters, and it's about 90 to 150 tons a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u41	Thank you. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Mr Pavel Růžička will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I've had a weapons license for about 20 years, I'm a trained ecologist, I've had ecotoxicology, tox screen, environmental protection. I mean, I kind of graduated from college. And, of course, the question of lead isn't as brilliant as it might seem. Because the cases are described, and on this basis, the ban we have in the Hunting Act was to use lead shotguns in wetland. Because when the lead falls to the bottom, it settles there, and when the water birds that feed on both plants and sometimes the tiny animals, then they were killed. That means, uh, bagging the toxicity of lead, I don't think it's right. The question is also the mechanical consequences of eating lead pellets and the like. Lead is toxic. The fact that it was used in water pipes is certainly true. And one of the theories why some civilizations also died out is that they used some vessels, I think tin and just lead, and then there was chronic poisoning. Of course, lead was also used to digest people. So the toxicity is clear. But it's not that simple. It also depends on the form of lead, whether it is in compounds, whether it is in organic compounds and the like. If we have some scientific monitoring here, from which we have basically some authorities that are being set up and tested, then in the European Union we follow the so-called precautionary rule. Remember with what enthusiasm it was possible - and when you talk about freedom, let us use DDT or polychlorinated PCBs, for example, freely. Yes, we used to paint silage pits, paint the pipes with paints that were polychlorinated PCBs. It was very good, because the properties were great. Only it turns out that these substances then become in the food chain substances that cause big problems, not only ecological but also health. So from this point of view, I wouldn't bagate it. And I definitely think it's better if you check out all the possibilities that there are. It is quite clear that in many ways lead is still irreplaceable technically. Of course, different substances were used earlier. Today we are in a situation where technology goes so far ahead that many technologies are replaced and we are not using what we used to do. Of course, substitutes are possible as regards, for example, ammunition, but those, as has already fallen here, either destroy weapons or also do not have the qualities that they are. It is, of course, in the animal punchiness, if hunters use half-coats, so it is because what is forbidden in the Geneva Conventions, i.e. dum-dum missiles, so there is a greater wounding so that the animals do not run away and remain as close as possible to the fire as possible so that they can find themselves in vain, shot and then not found. So it all has meaning. I am convinced that the members of the government are in this regard - and this discussion is certainly valuable in this - will be aware that they will not be those who take this matter as something that must be accepted at all costs and that they will behave rationally. Let's be rational, too. Lead is really toxic metal, and I think where it's replaced, let it be replaced. Technology's moving forward, not everything's gonna work out. However, even the debate, for example, as it was here with the soldiers, is, of course, out of the question, it is quite clear. It is about the extent to which we are willing to admit that we need to be careful. It also turns out that much of what was forbidden turned out to be excessive, and it also became hysterical. I think there's a need to maintain common sense and scientific procedures. I took thousands of BSE samples with these hands, the so-called mad cow disease. There was such hysteria that more than half the nation didn't eat beef for one time. Turns out, in the end, no transmission to humans was proven. It is always necessary to be very careful. That lead, if possible, shouldn't get into that ecosystem. Of course lead is naturally present in nature, but these are finally radioactive substances. Natural radioactivity is everywhere. We're radioactive too, the TV screen's radioactive. But that doesn't mean we're gonna say it's all right, and you're all gonna want to have a five-pound box behind your house with some radioactive stuff that's gonna radiate you. Paracelsus already said that every substance is toxic and depends on the dose. And, of course, the form in which it is used. So from this point of view, I think this debate is valuable. I think we can take from it that we will appeal to our representatives not to succumb to hysteria in this sense, but at the same time not to debathe the fact that lead is really toxic metal and that we need to keep in mind not only the environment as such, not only the animals or animals that live in it, but also the people, so that we don't get into situations like those of many substances that even man has developed or used, and it turns out that despite their excellent physical or chemical properties, they have proved problematic. So I personally believe that even according to the materials we have at our disposal, so the assignment is such that everything is properly checked out so that we can actually use where possible some substitutes that are adequate, and where this is not possible, so they try to continue to do so. I think that the whole debate that we've already devoted to a fairly large part of today's negotiations would deserve us to end it and to actually get to the next points of today's negotiations. I am convinced that our representatives will take this to heart and will try to ensure that we do not really harm any of those who have been discussed here, but at the same time that we do no more nonsense in the sense that we will pretend that nothing is going on and that the potential danger that of course exists - and I will mention again DDT or polychlorinated PCBs - just exists here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u43	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Zdeněk Podal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard something here about 150 tons in the water. Yes, it's possible. I can't argue with that. But we're all drivers. What's our balance on wheels? It's lead again. Take how many of them fly off those wheels. Take it, all the cables are treated with a solder. What's a solder? Tin and lead. I'm just surprised we're gonna hit the fishermen now. Okay, they can handle it. Then there will be others. What am I talking about? That it's split and conquer. So one day we're gonna find fishermen, one hunter, then we're gonna find out that there's an egg on the wheels, so why not the driver, so let them put on gold loads. That's how we get somewhere we definitely don't want to go. It is a dictation of the European Union, and we simply reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u45	Thank you. Mr Pavel Růžička will speak in the general debate. I'll give you one more word with a point of fact. [[Mr. Růžička is standing by the microphone.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. Excuse me, with a factual remark from Pavel Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u46	Thank you for the floor. So twenty, twenty, twenty, twenty, thirty years ago, it would have been a dictation of Brussels to ban polychlorinated PCBs or DDT. Thank you for finally understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u47	Thank you. Mr Pavel Růžička. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u48	Mr President, my lord, my fellow Members, I would also say a little bit about this, not on the part of the security forces and the military, but on the part of gun holders who go to the shooting range to shoot, sport shooters and hunters in particular. What's the other way around with a lead ban? No state in the world has yet adopted a complete ban on lead ammunition. The strictest bans that go further than the existing Czech ban on the use of lead shotguns while hunting in marshes include: In Denmark, for example, a total ban on imports, sales, possession and use of lead pellets and fishing weights since 1996. But the ban does not apply to single missiles. In the Netherlands, a total ban on the use of lead shots for hunting throughout the territory. The prohibition shall not apply to the use of shotguns for sporting fire or to single missiles. Since 1997, California has banned the use of lead shots and missiles in hunting in areas designed to protect condors. The transition to new rules made it easier for some conservation organisations to hand out free lead-free ammunition to hunters. From 1. 7. 2019 the use of lead ammunition for hunting - shots and single missiles is completely prohibited in California. The holding and use of lead ammunition for self-defense and sport shooting is without prejudice to this. The United States and Norway were the first countries to impose a ban on lead pellets for wetland fishing. This ban has gradually spread to a number of other countries, including the Czech Republic. California is the only territory where lead use in single missiles is prohibited. Criteria for selecting alternatives to lead shelling - there has already been talk of gold. There's a way we're dealing with it, and we know some replacements. For the criteria, first, availability, both for end-user prices and for the availability of raw materials for the production of missiles must be taken into account, second, efficiency, which has several aspects: In case of hunting ability to achieve reliable repeated interventions into the vital zone while ensuring sufficient penetration of the target and expansion of the missile. As Mr Holík said here, the fact that the barrel is wearing off and we're breathing something, maybe so, but the main problem is that then you don't hit exactly, because the barrel isn't accurate. In the case of a sports missile, especially the reflectivity and possible threat of third parties when reflected further in the direction of the shooting or the shooter himself when reflected back towards the shooter. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In the case of hunting and sports shooting ballistic properties of the missile mainly over longer distances. Promptness, both with regard to self-defense use, the likelihood of endangering people behind the attacker or reflection, as well as with regard to the effectiveness of protective equipment, such as police bulletproof vests, because in bulletproof vests, of course, the ballistics on lead is different from ballistics on a missile made of iron. And of course, as mentioned here, toxicity. Existing alternatives to lead in shots: We know that it can be made from tungsten, either a composite, a so-called matrix, 95 percent tungsten and 5 percent plastic, or a tungsten alloy, that's 1 percent iron and 40 percent nickel. It could also be--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u49	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you because you can't hear what the MP is talking about up here, so I'd like you to calm down. If you don't want to listen or want to deal with something else, please do it in the lobby. I'm gonna ask you to calm down again. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u50	Third, it's its own iron. Just for a quick comparison. Lead substitutions in shots in the UK, when I take a box with 25 lead shots, it costs CZK 236. If there is iron instead of lead, it costs CZK 253 if there is bismuth, it already costs CZK 1,240 if there is tungsten, CZK 1 915 - I note 25 rounds, and if there is tungsten, matrix, then the 25 rounds cost CZK 2,394. According to a study from Great Britain, iron represents the most affordable alternative to lead pellets. This, however, has a significantly lower density, which must be compensated by the use of larger shots with a subsequent impact on ballistics and wound strength at the target. Moreover, iron pellets can lead to damage to the weapon, especially when using a combination of larger shots and a narrow glare in the gun. As far as tungsten pellets are concerned, it is good to think of hardness. Lead hardness according to Mohs scale is 1.5, while iron hardness is 4.0 and tungsten has a hardness of 7.5. Therefore, if someone does not mind the tenfold price of ammunition, he should also count on the cost of regularly exchanging the main, i.e. a problem with which the average holder of a gun, for example, will not meet in the family for several generations. The specific type of refund is bismuth shots, which were preferred for example in Denmark. The increasing number of studies now shows its high toxicity especially when the affected animals survive, which is more likely to occur than in lead shots. Bismuth mainly affects the nervous system, with significantly different effects on individual animals even when using the same amount of pellets in laboratory conditions. Unleaded single missiles. The development of single missiles on a non-leaded basis was initiated in the US in particular with a view to achieving better ballistic properties and higher wounding, not to reduce the toxicity of ammunition. This development in 2012 resulted in the award of the round of the year for the copper ammunition of Barnes by the NRA. The comparison of prices of hunting ammunition in California shows price parity in case of the most commonly used rounds as.223 Remington. For most other hunting ammunition, unleaded variants are slightly more expensive - 15 to 30 per cent - than premium lead ammunition and significantly more expensive, up to 100 per cent than cheaper lead standard. A comparison of only sports rifle ammunition, which is generally cheaper than hunting equivalents, I have not been able to trace. Besides experts in Brussels, such a broad ban has not yet been applied. In the case of pistol ammunition, we can look at the comparison of prices in the American e-shop, which offers lead Winchester 9 mm 124 gr in conversion for CZK 4.70 and zinc FMJ Winchester SuperClean 90 gr in conversion for CZK 7. When shooting 300 shots on the shooting range, the difference is about 700 CZK, respectively. Almost three boxes of lead bullets. But the ballistic coefficient for these two missiles is completely different. [[16.10 hours]] What an impact it could have on sports shooting, we already know that. The U.S. missile company FUN assessed the impact of any prohibition on sporting fire after consultation with the Finnish ammunition manufacturer and summarised it as follows: Achieving the same or similar weight requires longer shots, which is difficult to produce ammunition corresponding to the size of a given caliber. Larger missiles pose a danger in terms of too high pressure due to its deeper placement in the shell casing. Longer shots require faster protruding especially to achieve stabilization of the missile. In order to achieve the same accuracy, weapons would have to be replaced mainly, which is costly with current weapons and completely impossible with historical weapons. The affordable materials are harder than lead, which means faster weapon wear. The most effective bismuth refund is currently produced primarily as a by-product in lead production. The industry is not at all ready for its direct production in the required quantity if the demand for lead falls. What Brusel is trying to achieve. One of the best practices to create obstacles to the civilian possession of weapons is artificially increasing costs. This typically takes the following form: General regulatory policy disproportionately increases price costs, such as the demands on hunters in Britain or the sale of weapons through a single legal trade in the middle of a military base in such a huge country as Mexico. Non-target increases in direct charges associated with the civilian possession of weapons, such as: Brazil. The creation of additional costs, such as the proposed requirement for US Democrats to make legal holders of arms compulsory to pay insurance when determining the minimum amount of annual insurance equivalent to the price of the new weapon. All we have to do is congratulate the experts in Brussels, because the increase in direct shooting costs through the full basis of the most accessible versions of ammunition is a worldwide novelty. I hope that when assessing the effect of lead in shooting and fishing, we will be very cautious and not succumb to ecological deliriousness. And what I'd like to say is, if that bird eats up that buck, 99 percent of it gets expelled again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u51	Thank you. Mr Pavel Jelínek, with a factual remark. Mr Hájek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u52	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've only been very brief. I've heard from a previous speaker where it's possible, let's make a mix-up, and where it's not possible, let's not. But the consequences are much wider. If we trade lead for steel bullets, can you imagine the large amount of internal, internal rifles that basically stop being safe? Because the reflectivity of such missiles is incredibly higher than that of lead. And I'm proud to report to that community of people who own a gun license and like to go shooting, and I wouldn't want to lose that possibility, because I know how the shooting range is divided in Olomouc, and the possibility of shooting galleries and modifications to be less reflective is basically impossible. Let's not ruin another possibility of our relaxation. And I just don't know why, because I really don't know how this lead would affect the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u53	Thank you. With factual remarks, I have two Members registered here. Mr. Hájek, to whom I give my word. For the debate? Really? For the debate, too? But you have to specify exactly what you want. So Mr Hájek for the debate was the first, Mr Lipavský for the second. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u54	I apologise, Mr President, for a minor complication. I'll be very brief. This means that, in case I do not miss something, that is, I just want to ask that we make a proposal which, although not yet mentioned in the debate, is a motion for a resolution, but Mrs Černochová has already introduced us to it, so I would like to ask that we vote on the motion for a resolution after the points. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u55	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Lipavský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u56	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, this is interesting. Mr Hájek has just made a proposal that I wanted to make. I wanted to make a motion for this resolution to be voted after points, per partes, but I will supplement it. If the motion for a vote had not passed after the points, I would have made a proposal to delete points II and III as counter-proposal, that is, alternatively, if Mr Hájek's proposal had not passed. The reason for this is that these two points do not actually comment on the substance of the problem under discussion, address the issue of the European Union, the relationship of the European Union to the Czech Republic, the Czech Government and our legislation. I believe it does not belong to such a resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u57	Thank you. I am ending the general debate. I will ask Mrs Černochová for the final word, and at the same time I will ask her to take us through the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There's been a lot of talk here. Perhaps, in conclusion, I should assure all my colleagues that the time that we have devoted to this has certainly not been lost, because it is not as comfortable as some colleagues have tried to tell us here. Indeed, we are now at the stage of the European Commission's request to the European Chemicals Agency on 16 July 2019, the ECHA, on the basis of the conclusions previously drawn by the European Chemicals Agency on the basis of the so-called European Chemicals Agency. The investigation report prepared the documentation provided for in Article 69 of REACH Regulation on restrictions on the placing on the market and use of lead ammunition in areas other than wetlands and lead in fishing weights, i.e. to prepare, colleagues and colleagues, so-called. The restriction report, which really is something we don't want to go down and down. I wouldn't dare bother you with something I wouldn't consider serious and I wouldn't consider something we're actually dealing with in five minutes to 12. So much for what was said here by my colleague Langšádlová or Mrs Fialová. I'm not gonna explain and delay her here to explain the difference between the security forces and the armed forces. I'd like to ask my colleagues from the Defence Committee on her part. As far as the arguments about how lead is harmful or not harmful are concerned. I received such a summary of some interesting information from LEX representatives from the ECHA report. And here, really, after studying the resources presented by this agency, it is quite clear that this report is biased and selectively lists from the quoted sources only facts that testify to the ban. And even these selected findings together, selectively, do not show the harmfulness of using lead ammunition on the environment or on the health of humans or game, except for water birds on the marshes, where, as I and some colleagues have said, lead ammunition is long ago forbidden. In many places, the study aids itself with a declaration - lead is considered a substance that is harmful in any amount. And that includes places where it's contrary to the source. Even somewhere, in one place, the source study states that the amount of lead absorbed by the human venison organism is below a safe health limit. The ECHA report does not provide this information and, instead, reiterates that lead is considered a harmful substance in any quantity. [[16.20 hours]] Unfortunately, the ECHA report often manipulates the conclusions of source studies and also changes their importance. For example, it states that according to a Finnish study, a third of the shooting range may pose a threat to water resources. In fact, the study states that a third of the shooting ranges in Finland may pose a threat to water resources because they cost less than 100 meters to water. Unfortunately, no actual measurement of lead content in water was carried out in this study. The bias of the ECHA report seems best illustrated by the fact that the report explicitly states that the risk assessment of the use of lead ammunition for human health has not been carried out because lead is considered to be harmful in any amount. It is precisely the threat to human health that the ECHA report presents as the main reason for legal basis, which I also mentioned here that there really is no tangible study anywhere. It didn't work for me because, of course, I don't want to support something that causes problems, whether in the environment or in people's health, so I contacted Sellier & Bellot, a company that dates back to 1825, and I asked Sellier & Bellot's management if they had any study on the impact of the health of their employees, people who are confronted daily with lead, who produce ammunition. And of course they have studies. Of course, they are under the scrutiny of the Ministry of Health, various environmental inspections. And they said absolutely responsiblely - no impact on people's health has been proven. And it's really a company that's been on the market for almost 200 years, and for many of those employees, it's an honor to be an employee of this company from generation to generation, so we can also explore it here from some family gene load point of view. I don't want to delay. Colleagues, colleagues, the situation is really not as comfortable as it might seem after some of the performances. That is why I discussed this matter on the first committee that was on the committee week so that we could at least have a resolution here. The First Committee was the Defence Committee. If he were a Security Committee, I assume that the same resolution would be tabled here by Mr Koten for the Security Committee. So much for why there's a resolution from the Defence Committee. So, Mr Vice-President, I would like to recapitulate the fact that the Security Committee has adopted a resolution. Proposals other than proposals for a separate vote... and in the absence of a separate vote, there is a proposal from Mr Lipavský for the expulsion of Roman II and Roman III... At the same time, he's here between me and Mr. MP... [[He's shutting down and turning right.]] Well, Benešík, but Bartošek - an agreement, because he wanted to put forward some other proposal, but I assume to the European Commission that, if honored colleagues would agree to it, because perhaps here it is a more precise wording that, in the whole resolution, which I will read in a detailed debate, would be adjusted, virtually. it replaced two words "Union legislation" or "Union legislation" with the words "the implementing regulation," or "the implementing regulation." "implementation rules' means those implementing rules. This would satisfy the desire of KDU-ČSL to submit a separate proposal and I think we would save ourselves some more complex vote. So if colleagues from the Defence Committee were not angry, if we were to replace the word 'Union legislation' in our proposal with the words 'implementation rules', then we would only have a proposal for a separate vote, and then, if it did not pass, for the elimination of II and III.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u59	Thank you. I've called - and I'll sing again in case anyone hasn't heard - Members to the ballroom. We will vote on the proposal for a separate vote at the moment. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 175, registered 185 Members and Members, for 161. [[Against 1.]] The motion was accepted. I'll ask the rapporteur... Mr. MP. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u60	I'll just give you a brief description of Mrs Černochová's work with you. It was not the satisfaction of desire, but the acceptable compromise that we were willing to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u61	I thank Mr Bartošek. I'll ask the lady of the house.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u62	Perhaps the word desire cannot be used in the people's population, but compromise. [[With laughter.]] I'm sorry. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present a motion for a resolution which...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u64	I didn't ask for it, ma'am, co-worker, but that wasn't fair. But we can talk about that tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u65	That's exactly what I meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u66	In that case, I would ask that we shorten today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because our debate with our colleague will be long and it is a pity that you did not shorten it until after the 21st hour. [[big laugh in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u67	I'll take the shortcut proposal as...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u68	So Roman I, colleagues, colleagues. The Chamber of Deputies, in the spirit of its resolution No. 1190 adopted on 20 April 2016 at its 44th meeting in the seventh parliamentary term... Yeah, that's the committee resolution... So the Chamber of Deputies, the resolution of the Defence Committee, it's just for the record. But other than that, it's: "I. The Chamber of Deputies continues to refuse that the institutions of the European Union interfere in a functional system of control, registration, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition set up by the law of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u69	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 176, for 157 of the 183 Members present. [[Against 3.]] The motion was accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u70	"II. It calls on the European Commission to keep a strict eye on the principle of proportionality and non-discrimination of the Member States of the European Union in the processing and presentation of any EU legislation and not to abuse its right to adopt implementing rules with the so-called 'the European Union'. direct effectiveness, thereby making it difficult for the proper and full consideration of the proposal in the other elected bodies of the European Union.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u71	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 177, 185 Members present for 135. [[Against 7.]] The motion was accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u72	III. It calls on all the institutions of the European Union to keep a strict eye on the principle of proportionality and non-discrimination between the Member States of the European Union in the processing and approval of any implementing provisions. - These rules. Once again: 'Calls on all the institutions of the European Union to keep these measures strictly on the principle of proportionality and non-discrimination of the Member States in the processing and approval of any implementing provisions'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u73	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 178. Of the 185 Members enrolled for 138. [[No one.]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u74	IV. It calls on the Prime Minister to take all legal and diplomatic steps to prevent the adoption of such EU legislation which would undermine the Czech rule of law in the field of trade, control, acquisition and possession of arms and thereby inappropriately interfere with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. And now I'm sorry because I read it to you the old-fashioned way. So once again: "He calls on the Prime Minister to take all legal and diplomatic steps to prevent the adoption of such implementing regulations which would undermine the Czech rule of law in the field of trade, control, acquisition and possession of arms and thereby inappropriately interfere with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u75	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 179. 185 Members present for 91. [[Against 2.]] The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u76	"V. Calls on the Government to be active in negotiations with other members of the European Union in the event of further action in the regulation of lead in the shell and fishery oil and legal possession of arms, thereby ensuring the necessary support and allies to halt the unjustified restrictions on citizens' rights."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u77	Before I start the vote, there's an application for a check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. [[Mrs Cernochová from the rhetoric: It is not.]] It's not. So I squeezed everything in here, reset everything, checked out, so let's try. It should be working by now. Slowly stabilizes. I will vote on the resolution read by Mrs Černochová. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 180. Registered 173 Members and Members, for 97. [[No one.]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u78	VI. Asks the Prime Minister to initiate new negotiations on how to create functional measures to combat illegal trade, acquisition, possession and other illegal tampering with weapons, ammunition and explosives within European Union countries.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u79	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 181. Of the 175 Members of Parliament and Members of the Council, registered for 87. [[Against 2.]] The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u80	"VII. He shall instruct the President of the Chamber of Deputies to present this resolution to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament and other representatives of the institutions of the European Union and the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u81	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 182. Of the 183 Members enrolled for 153. [[Against 1.]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We have now dealt with the per partes vote and we can therefore vote on the whole motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u83	I'm gonna ask you to read it because I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u84	Do you want me to read the whole thing again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u85	You don't have to read it, you've already read it at the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u86	So it was the original resolution approved by the Defence Committee with replaced words instead of "Union legislation" "implementation regulations" in all falls. Remains I, remains II, remains III, falls original IV, remains original V, falls original VI, remains original VII.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u87	Thank you for the summary. I have begun the vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 183. 183 Members and Members registered for 148. [[Against 4.]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u88	Thank you, co-workers, co-workers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-001-308.u89	Thank you, too. I'm done discussing this point. The next item is
