ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 154/1994 Coll., on Security Information Service, as amended, and Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended / House print 240/ - first reading Sorry, Mr Profant, I accidentally deleted you, so sign up once more for the general debate. [[Mr Profant's name had previously disappeared from the information board.]] Under the authority of the Government, the proposal was to be made by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, but he entrusted the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. This proposal for an amendment to the Act on Intelligence, the Security Information Service and on Military intelligence responds to current social developments in the field related to intelligence activities, including developments in public administration and the development of electronics, eGovernment. These are basically several partial measures, which are therefore intended to create prerequisites for more efficient intelligence activities in order to protect the interests and security of the Czech Republic. One of the news is that the existing authorisation under which intelligence services can already obtain information from records kept by central government authorities is intended to include rules according to which, where justified, they would obtain similar information from local authorities, which are therefore related to the activities of local authorities. Rules should now be introduced for obtaining information from the Directorate-General for Customs, in principle to the extent that such information can now be obtained from the Financial Administration, the General Financial Directorate, and the extension of the possibility already existing today, to obtain information from banks about their activities, in particular the flow of funds. Of course, the connection is obvious. This is particularly about the fight against international terrorism. As a result of the development of electronisation, it is expected to specify and extend rules for the registration protection of intelligence activities. In other words, this has to do with the issue of cover documents and thus the creation of legends in order for intelligence services to function effectively on the basis of cover documents, so that the identity is credible enough and it is not possible to be exposed by unauthorised persons. Another novelty to contribute in particular to the fight against international terrorism is the creation of a regularly updated reference database of persons in digital form, which should in principle be an anonymous registration of photographs of persons who are or may be associated with terrorist activities, so that they can be identified on the basis of their image. The last topic is the unification of legislation in the field of the use of wiretaps by intelligence services, where there is currently some disproportion between the treatment under the criminal code under which the use of wiretaps is permitted for four months and the modification in force for the intelligence services, where this authorisation is valid for only three months. In principle, it is merely the unification of this deadline for that period of four months. Given the time at which we are located, I believe that all proposals relating to strengthening the powers of the intelligence services are very well-founded, are reasonable, and I therefore ask that the proposal be released for further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vít Rakušan. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. Only from the start and from the point of view of the secret services is the maximum possible implementation at this stage, but the secret services themselves have long considered that the law dealing with their work would require a more thorough revision, would require a complete amendment, and here we are still talking only about the partial aspects of what our rapporteurs' work in the new, relatively turbulent and ever changing times could simplify. I would still like to sum up the principles of the proposed amendment in the main points. Supplement to the authorisation of intelligence services to obtain data retained by self-government authorities in connection with the exercise of self-government and to determine the obligations of public authorities to comply with the statutory conditions of the request for information by the reporting service. Furthermore, it is a strengthening of data protection by not restricting the list of public administration information systems from which data on access to log-protected data are provided. Furthermore, registration data protection will also be provided by information systems using information from public administration information systems and by providing non-public or non-accessible data on access to log-protected data. The introduction of the possibility for reporting services to obtain data from banks through another entity. This was discussed in more detail by the Minister. The Minister also described the extension of the period for authorising the use of intelligence technology by the Security Information Service and Military Intelligence for a period of four months in his report. The intelligence services shall also seek to strengthen the synergies provided by the public authorities in setting up cover and cover documents for the intelligence services. The next item is the creation of a regularly updated digital-like reference database based on databases that they are already entitled to access. The proposed changes are justified by the reporting services by the risk of a non-unified interpretation of existing legal provisions as a result of continuous terminology in the laws governing the management of records, registers and information systems. Furthermore, under the current condition, it cannot be excluded that part of the data volume will be provided in a way not remotely, which means a reduced efficiency of the registration protection due to the higher time intensity of this classic, not remotely. In relation to the obligation of public authorities to provide the requested information, it can be concluded from the principle of good administration that the latter cannot for no reason refuse to provide information to another State authority. Such refusal shall be justified, for example by the treatment of confidentiality, etc. The enforcement of such an obligation is currently insufficient from the point of view of the petitioners. Moreover, the historical comparison referred to above with the earlier legal regulation prevents the problem-free process of handling claims by intelligence services. In relation to the provision of information kept in connection with the whole of the dissemination of public databases, not just government, but also self-government, it must be noted that the necessary information can in principle be identified by other means of obtaining information, but in a lengthy and inefficient way. Furthermore, a somewhat outdated modification of cover and cover documents conceals the danger of its application, which could reveal precisely these cover and important means as a result. Perhaps the most debatable part that can be discussed is the need to create a reference database - i.e. the need declared by our secret services - the digital forms of persons who therefore illustrate the cases of movements of persons potentially associated with terrorism in which intelligence services can have image records of interest persons, whether from their own activities or from foreign partners, but their subsequent identification is in the opinion of secret services due to the absence of the instrument described above, time-consuming. Despite some aspects which may certainly provoke discussions that are legitimate, various amendments, for example at second reading, as rapporteur of this law, I recommend the law to be passed on to the next round of the legislative process, i.e. to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u5	So, this was the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Vít Rakušan. I am now opening a general debate and I have an application here, Mr Ondřej Profant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u6	Good noon, Dear House, Dear public. The Minister has explained this to us, explained to us that we need greater efficiency of intelligence services, etc. However, what I really miss here is to talk about the civil oversight of them. He's very weak at the moment. They, for example. they have a duty to use file services, but if you find out if anyone checks them, if they're used, if they're handled correctly, etc., they don't check because we don't have it covered in the law. We have a House Commission for Intelligence, for wiretaps, etc., of course, that's pretty good. Well, the problem is that we've approved their enlargement so that there are representatives of all the political parties in the Chamber of Deputies, and in over a year it hasn't happened. This really is not a control that such a sensitive subject deserves. Especially not when, on the one hand, we extend the powers of intelligence and, on the other hand, our top constitutional officials question their conclusions. I think we all know about what the President said, we all know how complicated the Prime Minister's relationship was with the núkib's warning, how he turned his claims several times, and so far he's very confused about what actually happened and what it means. He keeps showing up somewhere that we're banning cell phones. If necessary, what problems the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip has. Also, a warning not raised by the intelligence service, but based on intelligence information. As the rapporteur has indicated, we as a pirate party have the biggest problem with the digital image reference database. That's simply a big brother. We've had this place as a GDPR sticker. And here it continues. And that's why we don't see a reason to build such stalking databases, we don't see a reason. As I said, let's talk about it, but at that point, let's expand the civil oversight so that it's really effective so it's indisputable, which is clearly not here today. After all, we control wiretaps, but who controls data from data retention, which are required by mobile operators who store data? Well, no one checks it. The data is, the police and other institutions will demand access to it - and who controls how they are handled? Well, obviously no one. They are even stored in private entities, which we have only burdened. I agree with what has already been said here that this legislation is very obsolete and would need conceptual change, but the conceptual change must not only be that we allow the intelligence services to do whatever they want. It must be that we will build reporting institutions for the 21st century, where the interests of the democratic rule of law and some efficiency in these matters will be balanced. For these reasons, we are asking - or I am making a motion to return for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u7	There. I reflect your proposal. And now here's a point of fact. So I'm going to ask for Mr. Pavel Žáček's speech. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would simply add to the honourable speaker that, of course, the authorities of the Chamber of Deputies competent have expressed their views on questioning our intelligence services. I think we have repeatedly discussed the need to respond to a new situation that is changing dramatically to new technologies. That is why I think that a certain shift, although it is not a comprehensive change in our legal order, is appropriate in the functioning of intelligence services. I think, of course, that control is also a big issue. In this context, because we have, of course, experience from the past, which is not very attractive, what we are confronting them with, this is the work of State Security and other communist security forces. So let me just mention what I hope is averted, we will see that at this time the Ministry of the Interior has proposed regulations by governments in which they should be blacked out, or which should not be published, even in scientific works, the names of members of the national security agency network and other security forces or the authorities of the Communist Party that have repressed us here. Of course, it seems very, very strange and very controversial in this situation and it is appropriate to mention it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u9	Thank you. So far, the application for a general debate. I'm gonna look around the O.R.... I don't see any more applications, so I'm ending the general debate. I am asking the Minister, Mr Vít Rakušan's rapporteur, if you are interested in the final word? Yes. So the Minister doesn't, but the rapporteur does. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u10	Thank you, Mr President. No long final word. I would merely like to recapitulate how the rather short debate was going on, and I would therefore like to point out that a proposal has been made for the recovery of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u11	Yes, thank you for reminding me. So we will now vote on the proposal, just as you said. I'm going to call a Member of the Gong to the O.R. I have a request from the check-out, so I'm going to check you all out and please sign in with my voting cards again. [[He's waiting a while.]] There. I think we can slowly vote with the fact that I will repeat once again for those incoming lice that we are going to vote on. Mr Profant has proposed to return the proposal submitted to the applicant for completion. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of returning the submitted proposal for completion will press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 104, 125 Members registered, for 16, against 74. The motion was denied. So now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. And I'm asking the diaper if anyone else has a proposal for a warranty to the guarantee committee. He doesn't. So we will proceed to the vote, who is in favour of ordering the motion to discuss the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote, press the button on who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 105, 132 Members registered, for 131, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order the motion to the next committee. So I'm asking again in plenary if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss. Yes, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u12	Mr Vice-President, while I am a great supporter of the services and I consider the proposal to be appropriate at the moment, I think it is fair to consider the objections or doubts that Mr Profant has put forward here, and I recommend that the constitutionally legal committee should also be ordered from the point of view of protecting fundamental rights and freedoms, because, with all due respect for our security officers, they are sometimes too sighted in a one-way way, too seeing only in the way that everyone needs to be guarded, but they forget a little that it is also necessary to guard themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-012-034.u13	So, Mr Marek Benda, Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee, suggested that we also order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 106 registered 132, for 116, against 0. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. This discussion of this press is over for the moment. I'll read two apologies before we get further. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes, today between 13 and 14 o'clock for working reasons, further apologizing to Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 13.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. We will now proceed to the discussion of the next press and this is a government bill amending Act No. 366/1990 Coll., on local fees, as amended, House print 286, first reading. Under the authority of the government, the proposal will be made by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, but not only is she not here, but I have no indication that anyone else is in charge of this law, so we will postpone this law. So we're going to get to the next press and we're talking about
