ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u1	162. Government information on climate protection I ask an authorized member of the government, the Minister of the Environment and Deputy Prime Minister Richard Brabec to take the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. A lot of Members are leaving the O.R.]] Mr Vice-President of the Government, we will wait a little while longer for the House to calm down so that you have an environment to present information to the government. I'll ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u2	I do not think it will be better, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u3	Okay, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u4	I'll deal with it. Thank you for defending me. Thank you for trying. And I hope that maybe I'll draw attention to some of the latently disturbing colleagues and colleagues, and as you always say, I'm not going to name them. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I'm glad we got to this point. I've been quite skeptical. And I dare say that now we're going to talk about something that's really, really serious. And maybe, and I hope not to surprise you at the beginning by saying that maybe some still think about it, so I am convinced that even in the Czech Republic, the vast majority of people understand that there is something wrong with the climate, and I firmly believe that even most people, now I do not know if it is overwhelming, realize that human activity has a fundamental effect on the increase in average temperature. [[11.00 hours]] Finally, from the point of view of my original education, i.e. a geologist, it is quite well documented on one such easily understandable fact that if nature had stored that carbon for decades through the process of photosynthesis into biomass and humanity after what nature had stored for decades, then humanity in 250 years, maybe a little bit more, basically put it back into that atmosphere. And it's hundreds of billions of tons of CO2. [[The Minister speaks strongly and loudly. Members, despite the President's calls, speak loudly among themselves in the benches.]] This means, I hope, that there are most of us here who believe that the issues of climate change and negative impacts -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u5	Mr Vice-President of the Government, I will still interrupt you and ask the House for peace indeed! If you're discussing things other than the government's report on climate protection, please in the lobby! The minister may scream it out, but a stenographic record, I doubt they'll be able to record the stenographers because they won't hear your performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u6	Thank you again. I secretly believed that with a dramatic voice here, I would add more weight to it, although I dare say that the numbers are clear and that there is no need for that dramatic voice. This debate has come about or started at first sight, but really only at first sight, based on student activity, and I am very happy for it. Because it's great that young people realize their responsibility for this planet. After all, they will be the ones who will face the effects of climate change, even if they face and face our generations. Nevertheless, I would like to correct the slight inaccuracies that have emerged in this context. First of all, it is information that within 12 years there is a threat of ecological collapse on the planet. You will certainly not find this in the Special Report of the International Panel on Climate Change last October. The report says that if we want to achieve the goal of keeping the average global temperature below 1.5 degrees by the end of the century, we need to achieve global emissions reaching their maximum, greenhouse gas emissions, before 2030, and climate neutrality, or emission balance and declines around 2050. However, this is a global objective, and we do not have it entirely in our hands in a situation where the European Union's share of global emissions is about 10 per cent and will continue to decline in the coming years. In this context, it is also important to add that the obligations of all Contracting Parties under the Paris Agreement currently correspond to an increase in average temperature of more than 3 °C. Broad international cooperation between states, including the involvement of private entities, municipalities and individuals, is crucial to achieving the global objectives of climate protection effectively. To this end, the UN Framework Agreement on Climate Change was established, which established the objective of stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent the dangerous consequences of human interaction and the climate system of the Earth as early as 1992. Nor did the subsequent setting of binding reduction targets for economically advanced countries in the Kyoto Protocol significantly limit global greenhouse gas emissions production. As a result, a new international agreement was adopted in Paris in December 2015, which includes a wide range of states, counting on commitments for both developed and developing countries. The main objective of this Paris Agreement is to keep the increase in the average global temperature well below 2 °C compared to the values before the industrial revolution and thus to keep it above 1.5 degrees. But I'm just reminding you that the current increase is about 1 to 1.1 degrees, which means we're down to 1.5 degrees, we're down to about four tenths. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the Paris agreement is called: Mitigation - it also focuses on adapting to the negative effects of climate change. This is what we're talking about. adaptation. Furthermore, the financing of climate measures in developing countries, the application of modern technologies and capacity building in developing countries. Allow me a few more possible dry numbers, but significant. Let's talk about the current position of issuers. The European Union, as I said before, has about 9.8% share of global emissions, and in 2017 it was China's third largest emissions producer, which is 27 percent, with 16 percent by the United States. Fourthly, India has nearly 7 percent of global emissions, fifthly Russia, which has almost 5 percent. These five largest polluters are responsible for almost two thirds of all global CO2 emissions. From the European Union, Germany is the largest producer of CO2 with a share of global emissions of around 2,2 percent. And let me tell you a couple of pretty current numbers that you might have found yourself. It appeared recently a few days ago as part of the new statistics. Last year, CO2 emissions in the United States increased by 3% year on year, by 2,5 % in China, by 4.5 percent in India. And in the European Union, they have fallen by 1.3 percent. Overall, the global annual increase in CO2 emissions is 1.7 %. This is a total of about 33 billion. tonnes per year. This means that when we look at the contributions of individual countries and continents, it is clear that Asia's share is increasing increasingly, and it is quite dramatically. In fact, it compensates in the negative sense of the savings to which the European Union is committed today. I'm not saying this to be alibi, that there's no point in doing anything. I'm just saying this because, as we all know, CO2 emissions do not have boundaries as opposed to SO2 pollution emissions or nitrogen oxide or dust microparticles. This can happen very often when CO2 emissions are reduced in one part of the world, e.g. Thanks to the fact that there will be some major changes and restrictions, so if this does not happen suddenly in all parts of the world and vice versa, the other part of the world increases emissions by a great deal, or even more than the al-quota would have been, then of course, the effect is losing significantly. And now from the position of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic as a Member State of the European Union is involved in a joint European effort, so-called the climate-energy package and contributes to achieving the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets set by 2020 and 2030. The Czech Republic, together with other EU Member States, undertook to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990. Between 1990 and 2017, the Czech Republic reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by around 35 percent and the European Union decreased its emissions by 22 percent over the same period. According to current emission projections, the Czech Republic will meet its commitments within the EU by 2020 and 2030. In 2017, CO2 emissions per capita were in the Czech Republic - and here we are only talking about CO2 emissions, the other greenhouse gases then have a slightly higher number - 9.8 tons, which puts us in a world of roughly 20th place. In the case of the Czech Republic, high specific emissions are mainly caused by a very high proportion of industry on gross domestic product. And many of us, I think all of us, know that the Czech Republic is the most industrialized country in Europe in terms of industrial share in total GDP. [[11.10 hours]] But for the sake of interest - even higher per capita emissions than the Czech Republic have, for example, Estonia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Belgium and just a little less per capita emissions, for example, Germany. I'm not saying this because we're flattered by the current position, but I'm saying this because the numbers are sometimes crazy and, of course, they need to be seen in the context of other countries as well as our position. And also historical positions. Because - I will not surprise you by saying that the Czech Republic was historically based primarily on coal power generation, and not only the production of electricity, but also heat and, of course, energy industry. The position is changing, but it is obvious that we will be difficult to compare it with Nordic countries such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark or Austria. The most significant - that is to be objectively said - the reduction in emissions in the Czech Republic occurred between 1990 and 1994, particularly in connection with the restructuring of the national economy, in particular the transition to the market economy and the significant decline in heavy industry production. Since 1998, emissions have oscillated around 140 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. From 2008 onwards, we can follow a downward trend related to economic recession and slowing economic growth. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the Czech Republic contributed significantly mainly to the decline in the burning of fossil fuels in the manufacturing industry and in the energy sector, where the production of coal-fired power plants with nuclear and renewable energy sources took place and continues to be gradually replaced. Despite the overall increase since 2008, emissions of greenhouse gases from transport are also falling. Emissions from agriculture then decreased by about half compared to 1990. And let's face it, the cause of this major fall in agriculture is, above all, a significant decline in livestock production, which is controversial, because then, of course, we are missing the organic component in the soil. The Czech Republic's approach to climate change can be divided into a policy aimed at reducing anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions - this is the so-called mitigation, and the adaptation policy and strengthening resistance to the negative effects of climate change. Because it is necessary to acknowledge - and I hope that you will forgive me as Minister of the Environment and as Government that we cannot rely on, that the mitigation, that means mitigating the consequences, will ultimately be successful in order to fully rely on all the means at our disposal, that we will devote all the resources at our disposal to the mitigation that we have but only very limited impact on, and then we will find that emissions have not stopped, have not been reduced, or we have not stopped climate change, we have not stopped global growth. Of course, we need to save a significant part of the funds for the adaptation, because let us prepare for it, and it is already happening today that we must adapt to climate change in the Czech Republic as well. That's the basic difference, esteemed colleagues and colleagues who are in their heads. Because we are really still five or seven years ago, and I think we all remember that time, even then under the influence - and I said it today in some conversation - a very strong personality of Václav Klaus the elder, who was, and I think he is, until now, convinced that there is no link, or a minimal link between human activity and the impact on climate change, so I think Czech society was convinced that they are unnecessary. And here are some other colleagues who believe so far, it seems. [[Two members of the ANO movement nod with a smile towards the speaker.]] Even from an area where I didn't expect it then. [[with a smile]] But okay. That's a little knife in the back, but I'll deal with it. However, at that time the political representation was able to convince citizens that the impact is not here and that there may be something happening in the Pacific Islands or in the Arctic, but that, of course, there is no effect on Central Europe or even the Czech Republic. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the current state we are facing is a long-term drought that does not have parallels in the modern history of the Czech Republic or Czechoslovakia, weather extremism and other factors clearly indicate that something is simply happening. Something we haven't met yet. And, of course, as a geologist, it may be scientifically interesting for me to talk about the fact that such periods have already been in Earth's history. Oh, yeah. In the history of the planet, there have been many more dramatic times. And I have to say that there is x of the ice age and x of the ice age, but we were not there as a human being with seven billion inhabitants, where, of course, the population on continents like Africa is rising sharply, which are and will be dramatically affected by climate change. Like I said, but we can see it here in the Czech Republic as well. But what I'd like to say. A number of key strategic documents have been adopted under the influence of this and previous government and a whole range of concrete steps have been taken in the area of climate protection, which determine the objectives and priorities of the Czech Republic. The adaptation strategy was adopted in 2015. This strategy was then updated in 2017 by the National Climate Change Action Plan in the Czech Republic, which contains 52 specific priority measures and 160 priority adaptation tasks respectively. Currently, they are working intensively to evaluate and update these documents. The vulnerability of the Czech Republic to climate change has been assessed as high, especially in the area of flooding, increasing average temperature and long-term drought. These three key impacts of climate change are and will be primarily targeted by adaptation measures. One of the most important elements of vulnerability in the Czech Republic is the management of water in the landscape, where due to poor management there is not sufficient water retention in the landscape. And I will probably not surprise you by saying that, and we have already talked about this here and in this magnificent Chamber of Deputies several times, and we will no doubt talk many times more about how many hundred measures we are doing today in the context of water retention in the countryside, better water management, because the carelessness and the water well-being, as we have experienced in the last decades, perhaps hundreds of years, is simply ending. Based on the outputs of the VODA-SUCHO Interministerial Commission in 2017, the government adopted a concept to protect against drought consequences for the Czech Republic and drought issues is a long-term priority of the government. This is, of course, not only a successful Dešťovka programme for both citizens and municipalities, but of course we have long-term support for water retention in the countryside under the Operational Programme Environment, under the Operational Programme Agriculture and other operational programmes including the OP PIK, including the regional operational programme and tens of billions of CZK go into the area of adaptation to really thousands of measures. Just from the Operational Programme Environment, we have taken approximately 10,000 concrete measures over the last five or six years to contain water in the countryside and better manage it in agriculture, within cities and municipalities, within industry, and also in terms of water retention in the smallest areas of the type of regions. Or we have a special program that needs to be focused on new sources of drinking water. Indeed, they are hundreds of measures. We could discuss them for a very long time. In terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the government adopted a climate policy in the Czech Republic on my proposal in 2017. The Ministry is now also making a significant contribution to the completion of the National Energy-Climatic Plan by 2030, which is based on this policy. This is the material primarily of the MIT, which, of course, we also collaborated on. The basic link of these documents is the transition to a low-emission economy, which must take place in all areas, not only in energy and industry. In addition to the 2020 and 2030 targets based on the European Union climate-energy package and the Paris Agreement, the climate policy also contains for the first time a long-term indicative target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80 per cent by 2050 compared to 1990. [[11.20 hours]] Here we have to say that in these models we have looked into this distant future, where, of course, we can say that when we don't know what's going to happen to the climate in five or ten years, it may seem pointless to simply look at this outlook by 2050. But we did this on purpose to see what conditions will have to be met in this society in order to be able to achieve an emission reduction of 80 percent. I'd say maybe forgive me for the quotes, just 80 percent. Because today you know that there is talk in Europe about how to achieve so-called climate neutrality, that means that the difference between absorbed and emitted carbon is zero. Even these 80 percent mean completely dramatic changes in all areas of our lives. For example, the fact that not one car can ride fossil fuels at that time on the Czech roads, for example, that transport will have to be completely electrified, for example, that it means, of course, dramatic changes in terms of our consumption, from the point of view of livestock production, from the point of view of reducing energy, heating, which is probably something we can imagine very well. No more fossil fuels can be used in combustion, which we can imagine by 2050. However, between the around 45 percent reduction by 2030 and the 80 percent by 2050, it turns out that this is no longer about evolutionary routes, but it is about a real revolution. Not only technologically, but also in their heads, and I think that is the main challenge that the world will certainly face today. The key emission reduction measure will continue to be a reformed emission allowance trading system, which should lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by a further 6 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Continued support for measures to reduce the energy performance of industry and buildings should bring further reductions of emissions by approximately 3.5 million. tonnes. A very successful New Green Savings programme, which is considered the best warming programme in Central and Eastern Europe, will contribute to this reduction by roughly half a million tonnes. By promoting renewable sources and highly efficient cogeneration, emissions can be reduced by an additional 3.5 million. tonnes. In industry, emission limits and applications of best available technologies, which should reduce emissions by approximately 2.7 million by 2030, should contribute most to reducing emissions. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The regulation of fluorinated greenhouse gases, which should lead to a further reduction of emissions by approximately 2 million, should also be significantly reflected. tonnes. In transport, new emission limits for passenger and freight cars should contribute most to reducing emissions, which should lead to a reduction of emissions by more than 1.5 million in the Czech Republic's conditions. tonnes by 2030. I dare say that the automotive industry, and you all know that the Czech Republic is simply an autoland, which is highly dependent on the automotive industry, is now facing the biggest challenge since the invention of the combustion engine. It is something that, of course, looks relatively simple at first glance, but it means a huge change, a literally structural revolutionary change of this important segment and, of course, a significant promotion of electromobility in the Czech Republic, or generally pure mobility, because it may not only be about electric cars, we are also talking about CNG cars and we are talking not only about electric mobility of battery but also about hydrogen electromobility. I dare say that hydrogen, which was outrun by an electromobile battery at a certain stage today, will certainly return to its position, and I see a great future in that. Programmes supporting the transition to alternative fuels will also play an important role, not only in terms of personal automobiles but also in terms of public transport. Again, it is no secret to you that hundreds of buses in the Czech Republic are already running on CNG thanks to subsidies, but of course they are based on battery electromobility and in the near future we can also see the boom of hydrogen electromobility in public public transport. In the waste sector, greenhouse gas emissions have so far increased and their reduction will depend on the rate of landfill reduction. As I have already said, the situation in agriculture is a little more complex, because there is currently a certain increase in emissions by 2030, about 6% compared to the current situation. And it has its logic, because the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture are counting on an increase in livestock production. However, it is not only a problem of the Czech Republic or a challenge for the Czech Republic in quotation marks, but it is a challenge for all European agricultural countries, because the decline in livestock production then of course means the lack of organic fertilisers, organic ingredients in soil. Last but not least, it is necessary to look for appropriate measures to strengthen emissions in the soil and forests, because carbon is emitted in the form of CO2 or other greenhouse gases, but it is also consumed or absorbed by photosynthesis. However, at the moment we are facing, as you all know, an unprecedented crust-calamity that will make these parameters worse, significantly, because there will undoubtedly be an impact in terms of a smaller amount of absorption. In the past, much relied on the so-called CCS system, meaning the carbon capture system in some way, for example, into the mines and so on. I must say that the projects that are being done worldwide show that the method is applicable, but far from achieving what visionaries and strategists have promised of it on a mass industrial scale. From the perspective of other measures - I am coming to an end. For example, by the end of March, the last challenge of boiler subsidies is currently underway, which, of course, is also aimed at reducing the consumption of fossil fuels. In the last challenge, it is no longer possible to obtain a subsidy for coal, not even in combination, not even for a combined boiler for coal and biomass. In the field of energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable resources, as I said, the New Green Savings Programme will continue to launch new challenges to reduce energy consumption as well as for public buildings under the Environment Operational Programme. There I must say that we are successful in reducing emissions, or in reducing energy savings in both civil buildings and public buildings. We also support cities and municipalities in the framework of clean mobility. There's been a lot of discussion here about the possibility of electromobility support for citizens as well. I don't want to hold things up right now, but I'd be happy to answer any questions. The Czech Republic has also been actively involved in international cooperation on climate protection in recent years, contributing more than 100 miles. CZK to the so-called Green Climate Fund, which supports mitigation and adaptation measures in the poorest countries of the world, and thanks to the activities of the Ministry of the Environment and in cooperation with the German agency GIS Czech experts are also helping, for example, in Vietnam, Georgia, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan or the Balkans, concrete projects to reduce CO2 emissions. In conclusion, fellow Members and colleagues. According to current research by Masaryk University, up to 88 percent of Czech citizens consider climate change a serious problem and 67 percent consider a serious problem at the level of the Czech Republic. Those are the numbers that are really, if we compared it to opinion polls five, seven, ten years ago, fundamentally different. It's great that priorities change, but that's, let's just say, the good news. The worse news is that citizens still have the idea that the issue of climate change will somehow be resolved by the state and that our degree of participation in it and give up in our own way of comfort, because it already interferes with our personal bubbles in terms of transport, consumption and so on, so we are no longer too prone to that. The awareness of citizens about climate change also increases the Ministry of the Environment through education, education and education. In recent times, we may have been involved in the preparation of a recently broadcast four-part cycle of Czech Television Climate is changing the Czech Republic. [[11.30 hours]] In conclusion, because there will certainly be a very interesting debate based on the number of entries, I would like to say that I am very well aware, and I really may be in constant contact with some of my predecessors with those scientists, so if we are called upon to listen to scientists, at least in the case of the Ministry of the Environment, it really is a little bit of breaking into the open door, because I warned or began to draw attention to the problem of climate change and impacts on the Czech Republic in 2014 right after taking up the Ministry of Environment, when it was not really a topic for anyone. I have a number of top experts on my team, I have established a national coalition against drought, where there are top scientists, I dare say the best we have at the level of the Czech Republic in terms of combating drought effects, and I would say even, fighting climate change, but that is not exactly the term, because we simply cannot fight climate change very much. We can try to alleviate it in some way, but we need to be prepared for the adaptation measures in particular. I would like to say that, of course, I know that the Czech Republic, like other countries, has certainly, undoubtedly, reserves in all areas, in order to do even more, we are working on them quite intensively, and I recently expressed my wish to participate in the creation of the so-called. The coal commission, a team similar to that established in Germany, which, as part of the update of the state energy concept, which is currently being worked on and should be completed in the course of the next year, we discussed the future of energy, and not only the generation of electricity, but of course also heat and general energy including industrial energy, the future of fossil fuels in the Czech Republic and the specific impacts of each individual source of CO2 emissions, a large source, energy security and self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic and specific impacts, because always, and that does not surprise you, is something for something. That means we're definitely ready, and we're open to other debates. At the same time, I believe, and please do not take this as an alibism again, but as at this point pragmatism, which is based on some elementary knowledge of the events, that in its efforts to protect climate Europe must not remain alone, and as I have read the 2018 figures, we see that the conditions of the Paris Agreement are not yet fulfilled and that the same states that have declared something so greatly increase their CO2 emissions, whether it be China, whether it be India, whether it be the United States, and that therefore everyone must realise their share of climate change. And it's about the carbon footprint, and whether it's a cliché or a phrase, it's about the carbon footprint of each of us, and then there's the bread breaking. Because of course it's in our heads, and we all know that. It's about how much we want to consume, because the whole world, the whole economy of the world, it's just based on more and more growth, on more and more consumption, that even those nations that, of course, now have hundreds of millions or continents of billions of inhabitants, so they also want to have cars, they want to have smartphones, they want to buy new clothes, we're throwing away huge amounts of food, we have overproduction of food. The challenge is global and it's in our heads, which is why it's so complicated. So the whole world has to work together on this, as we have seen the enthusiasm of the Paris Agreement in negotiations in Paris, and only so is the chance that we can prevent or mitigate the irreversible damage and irreversible changes that undoubtedly can dramatically affect the lives of many dozens and perhaps hundreds of generations that will come after us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u7	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Environment, and I will now ask that the appellant, Mrs Dana Balcarová, take the floor, who, if she agrees, will also be the rapporteur of the press. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u8	Thank you for giving me the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would have responded briefly at the beginning to the Minister's speech. He mentioned here that, in fact, we included this point a little on the initiative of students who, at their Fridays for Future, called on the government and politicians to deal responsibly with climate change. It's actually a protest against our inactivity. I'm here to quote what the Minister said and what he was very shocked by. He said he welcomes that young people are aware of their responsibility for their planet. I think that's a very bad interpretation. Young people are telling us that we should be aware of our responsibility, the responsibility of the government, the responsibility of the politicians. They can't do so much at the moment, but it's perfectly legitimate that they're pushing us to demand concrete action from us, asking us to comment on the concept of the Clean Planet for all the people that the European Commission has presented. So I just wanted to say what the reason for the student protests is. I very much welcome the initiative of the students. I understand that they will be 50 in 2050, and what their life will look like and how quality it will be, depends on us, depending on how fast we act now and how we stand up to it. The pirates immediately after the IPCC report on the progressing change in climate change, which is progressing much faster, and these speeches are much more drastic than expected, we started working on the pirate concept for climate change, where we have concrete steps. Deflection from the burning of fossil fuels is absolutely essential. When I compare it with what is currently going on in the Czech Republic, there is an increase in coal mining by 11 percent. Furthermore, coal combustion in outdated coal-fired power plants continues and exceptions are granted to emissions that pollute our air and emit greenhouse gases, or the possibility of granting exemptions. So it is completely contrary to what the Minister here said that the Czech Government wants to do or is already taking concrete steps. Another absolutely crucial thing that the Minister also mentioned is the preservation of water in the landscape. Yes, that's one of the major adaptation strategies. This is mentioned very often - and what is the reality? The fact is, we now have a proposal for a small waterworks amendment in the Committee on the Environment. What does the proposal look like? In fact, these are works that can be up to two hectares large. This is not at all a gentle approach to the landscape, which would promote the building of sound tools, how to preserve water in the landscape, but it is another concreteization of the Czech landscape. It is completely contrary to what strategies are for preserving water in the landscape. Next thing you know, the minister here also mentioned it, they're woods. Forests are absolutely essential for adapting to climate change. In times of heat and drought, they can function as a reservoir of water, and in the rains of the rain, if they're healthy, they'll see. And at this point, we have an amendment to the Forest Law on the Environment Committee. You would expect that there will be principles to keep our forests healthy, or rather how to manage them to be healthy, but there will be no such thing. There is not so long a declared need that the composition of the forest should be changed so that it is species-wide that it also contains deciduous trees, so that it is not only an economic forest whose aim is to raise money and profit, but to be a forest that will have an important ecological function to promote biodiversity that will work in a dry time. There is no such thing in the amendment to the forest law presented by the government at the moment. There is nothing there about cutting down the holodecks, reducing their scope, so it can continue to be possible, if this amendment passes as it is designed, large clearings will continue to be created. Nor is it supported that the natural restoration of the forest should be allowed, which, if the forest is restored at least partially naturally, is the most stable in terms of its future development. Just the forest law that the government is submitting to us doesn't involve anything in it that supports adaptation to climate change. [[11.40 hours]] So these are specific things that I can mention that we have here in the House now, and we see that we are being presented with amendments to laws that are not in line with the adaptation strategy for climate change and even conflict with it. So that's what I wanted to say here. Then I wanted to mention about the Clean Planet document for everyone. It is a strategic vision presented by the European Commission. And I wanted to say that the vision isn't about being too green or being sustainable. The aim is for the economy to be prosperous, modern, competitive - a territory that will have such a strong economy that it will simply cope with the effects of climate change. And the fact that the European Commission wants to be a leader also has its reasons. It is based on the fact that no one else is the first to answer this question. So if it's not gonna be us, it's probably not gonna be anybody. We can't say China doesn't do anything. It is our responsibility at the moment, and it is also because the European Union is a strong economy, which can not only be the first, but also the first. And another reason is that it is a challenge that will bring us an advantage. If we are the first ones, we will determine what technology will look like, we will support the development that will support our industry. So if we're gonna be leaders, we're actually gonna be drawing on all the benefits that it brings. So these are actually the main reasons why we should get involved and be proactive, and not say that if the whole world doesn't do anything, then we won't do anything either. Because we are such a small economy and a small state that our activities will actually have no significant impact. But the fact is that we, perhaps the Czech Republic, do not have such a significant impact on the course of climate change, but climate change will have a very significant impact on the Czech Republic. So that's how we should approach it. Not alibistically hide behind China or other countries. Even because the Czech Republic is the fourth country within the European Union, which emits the most greenhouse gases per capita in absolute numbers. That's really not a good position. We should act responsibly, and we should start dampening the burning of fossil fuels. Not the way it is now. I don't want to talk long, I also want to give room to other speakers. So at this point, I would like to introduce you to the resolution that I would like to propose. This resolution is a direct copy of the resolution adopted last week in the Senate. And it was accepted there - no one opposed and was actually accepted across all sides, including the coalition parties YES and ČSSD. So I would read the resolution at this point, if you'll allow me. Allow me to present the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. in accordance with Senate resolution 126 of the 7th meeting on 20 March 20 1. Supports a long-term strategic vision for the climate-neutral economy by 2050 submitted by the European Commission, confirming the European Union's efforts to be a leader in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change; 2. Considers that the communication presented aims to launch a pan-European debate on this serious issue, and therefore does not share the government's argument that the strategic vision of the European Union should already number specific impacts on individual Member States at this stage. It believes that it is up to the Member States to quantify and propose their own realistic measures to mitigate them under their individual conditions; 3. Calls on the Government to quantify the specific effects of decarbonisation on the Czech Republic and to try to propose measures to mitigate them. This impact assessment can subsequently be used in ongoing debates as a basis for argumenting why one of these scenarios is inappropriate for the Czech Republic; 4. Calls also on the Government to strongly support research, development and innovation in the field of renewable energy sources and their use under other natural conditions; [[including energy accumulation from these sources]] II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to clarify its position on the Clean Planet document for all submitted by the European Commission and to submit by 30. 4. 2019 The Chamber of Deputies shall be informed of the specific steps it takes and intends to take in response to climate change; III. Instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies to refer this resolution to the European Commission." So this is my motion for a resolution. And because I know that some other colleagues will also report to the motion for a resolution, I am quitting at the moment and giving room to other speakers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u9	Thank you, Mrs Dana Balcarová. I am opening a general debate in which there are six entries plus three entries with priority rights. The first priority is Vice-President Tomio Okamura, then Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková and then Vice-President Hanzel. So in the debate, please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we should see the climate debate on two levels. The one is the Paris Agreement, which formulates a long-term climate protection objective, which is to contribute to maintaining an increase in the average global temperature below 2 degrees compared to the period before the industrial revolution, and to strive to ensure that the increase in temperature does not exceed 1.5 degrees. And it brings commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It would be wrong if we slipped into the debate about whether warming planets cause greenhouse gases or natural cycles. The truth will probably be part of both. Warming is literally annihilation for many, especially island countries. The Czech Republic, even if it were cut, will not lower the temperature of the planet. It doesn't mean we shouldn't try. On the contrary, we must try much harder because we have a bigger problem than the elevated temperature in Prague or Pelhřimov. Our citizens are dying of emissions every day. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have recorded unflattering statistics. The most high concentration of fine flying dust in the European Union is located in Poland and the Czech Republic. The primary blame is the dependence of the Polish and Czech coal economy, which is burned in households and power plants. Our large cities, such as Ostrava or Brno, are among the hundred worst settlements in Europe, where excessive concentration of harmful dust is caused mainly by cars. The debate on climate protection often discusses what causes climate change. Whether it's more natural cycle or high CO2 emissions. It shouldn't really matter for our debate on climate protection. The climate is getting warmer and at the same time the air is increasing not only CO2 but hundreds of other and far more toxic or dangerous fumes. If we are talking about climate protection, we should bear in mind that this is not just about climate. The emissions we release into the air are a problem that cannot be lived with for very long, but, on the contrary, it can be quickly and painfully killed. One in three of us gets cancer, one in four die. The report on the environment of the Czech Republic from 2017 approved by the government on Tuesday says that the Czech Republic has above average greenhouse gas emissions per capita within the European Union. According to recent scientific studies, air pollution kills more than wars, diseases, and accidents. This invisible killer becomes the worst, in quotes, a mass murderer who shortens life for almost all the inhabitants of the planet. [[11.50 hours]] The emission particles they kill include soot, smoke, or dust. Then, together with oxygen, they get into people's bodies and can cause health problems. The smaller the particles, the deeper they get into the human organism. The smaller ones get into the bloodstream through the lung bags, where they can increase blood pressure and create blood clots. In time, their presence in the blood can lead to strokes and heart attacks. The particles can be dangerous even for the brain. If they get to him, it causes the brain to grow older faster, cognitive functions are reduced, and Alzheimerův's disease can also be the result. The value of smaller particles in the Czech Republic was calculated at 17.3 micrograms per cubic metre in 2016. The safe limit is therefore exceeded by 7.3 micrograms. The worst in measurement was Bruntál, Kroměříž and Šumperk. If this value could be reached to a safe level, the period of Čech life could be extended by 8.5 months. The emission intensity of the economy was 66.5 percent higher in 2016 than the average of the Member States of the European Union. This is also due, among other things, to the nature of our production. We are simply an economic colony, a junkyard where not only second-rate food and goods are sent, but also dirty production is moved here. It's not just a demonstration of Western firms' approach, it's ours. We're kind of used to our steel and coal here. Unfortunately, it's like AIDS. You can live with it until you die, but it comes much faster. And governments and we, as Parliament, should respond to problems. The anti-smoking lobby has imposed a general ban on smoking, which kills far fewer people than smog and dust, which seem to be the main cause of lung cancer, even in many smokers. So now we could join forces and solve a real problem that really kills. Several methods are proven in the world. It is primarily the so-called carbon tax on all products that produce emissions and dangerous residues by combustion. It is also a system support for the change of local heating. Boiler subsidies that only get to a few chosen, they're not. Anyone who is willing, for example, to become energy independent by, for example, photovoltaics, wind power plants, or otherwise, should be entitled to support investment in technologies that enable it to do so. I'm talking about family houses and stuff, of course. For example, all family homes could immediately be energy-sufficient. You just need to motivate the owner. And we'd save a new block of Temelín right away and for less money. More than 43 percent of households live in family homes. The savings that are offered here are in the order of millions of megawatts a year, and we can also include savings for the construction and maintenance of power lines or loss of transmission systems or losses in pumping power plants. And having free electricity, isn't that the dream of all our citizens? As far as climate is concerned, it is not just transport and energy. Few people know that increasing the organic content of soil reduces the carbon dioxide content in the air and, of course, increases the soil's ability to bind the water that is so much needed. The problem is that we lack a truly conceptual analysis of the state with a proposal for a system solution that is not simple, but contains hundreds of partial changes from planting forests to protecting and improving soil, to limiting the consumption of coal and petroleum products. Unfortunately, we in the Czech Republic are delighted that Volkswagen will move towards us the end-of-life production of cars with internal combustion engines, while in Asia or Latin America it is already standard for cities to drive electrotaxes and electric vehicles to deliver goods, and China will definitely end up with all internal combustion engines in a few years. Američan are even trying to develop bikes for wood gas. We're just here to calm down by myth that oil and coal will last us forever. Unfortunately, the train with the latest trends is long gone. And in vain, I'm looking for a country that's worse off because actually China's solar lighting, public as well as in the hut, already has natives in the African or South American jungle. Therefore, I would expect the government to propose at least some initial strategy, how we will make real changes, which will start improving energy performance, reducing emissions, and so on. However, the government of YES and ČSSD is not able to present this strategy. Partial ideas such as the already mentioned boiler subsidies in selected regions for a few people who stand up to the front are simply not the system solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u11	I thank Vice-President Okamur. Now with priority rights Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková. Before I give her my word, I state my apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from 13:30 a.m. to the end of the day - Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u12	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, would just like to add some information which Mr Brabec, Minister of the Environment, has already presented here. First, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is fully responsible and has a so-called national climate-energy plan in its competences. This national climate-energy plan is being created by the Czech Republic as part of the whole European climate-energy plan, when the European Commission set the basic objectives for the European Union as a whole. In our national climate-energy plan, we have analysed and set rules to be able to achieve the objectives that the Czech Republic should contribute to the European objectives in the various areas affected by the plan. This plan was sent to the European Commission, but at the same time our internal national discussions on the plan are not yet concluded. We discuss individual items with all stakeholders affected by individual areas. This national climate-energy plan will also be the basis for updating the state energy concept, which is also in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The state energy concept is a strategic document, the latest update of which is from 2015, and I would like to point out here that it is one of the strategic documents over which there was some kind of political consensus across the political spectrum. This document also determines our energy mix by 2040. As part of this energy mix, we are counting on a decrease in energy produced from fossil fuels, and we are also counting on this reduction to be replaced by an extension of nuclear energy sources. We could probably have a discussion here for quite a long time on nuclear energy expansion, but it is one of the parts that we as a government and also the Czech Republic consider to be a complete complementary substitute for fossil fuels. An increase in the share of renewable resources is also part of the energy concept. As far as the share of renewable resources is concerned, the Czech Republic is actually already fulfilling the share that we have as binding for 2020. If we talk about the share by 2030, we are prepared to take measures to cope with the objectives which I assume we will have negotiated within the European Commission. I am saying that I assume that there is no specific binding objective within the European Commission and for the Czech Republic, there is only the European one, and today individual countries are setting their own goals, which they want to participate in. It is therefore a question of further negotiations within the European Commission that we should achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves, 20.8% of the share of renewable resources, then. [[12.00 hours]] I would therefore like to say that the final consumption of energy from renewable sources is growing and growing far more than our energy savings commitments are fulfilled. Here, I think there is a global challenge to continue energy saving. I would like to say that, as far as renewables are concerned, we have long-term State aid, especially operating aid for renewables, and therefore the planned aid for the operation of renewables is also planned for the future. I would like to say that, therefore, the PV operation is no longer supported as such, but hydropower plants, biomass, wind power plants, geothermal energy and so-called combined production of electricity and heat are supported. Support for renewable sources is set up in national legislation, primarily in the Act on Supported Resources and in the National Action Plan on Renewable Energy. It should therefore be pointed out once again that the Czech Republic has already fulfilled its commitments to the European Commission. We have submitted an amendment to the Act on Supported Resources and we have also submitted the National Climate-Energy Plan. I would like to say that we have received more than 500 comments on the amendment on the promotion of renewable resources and the Ministry is currently dealing with them. I would still perhaps like to respond to the appeal made by the rapporteur and Vice-President Okamura through Mr President, and this is a question of promoting investment in science and research in the field of renewable resources. As the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we have the TRIO programme in our science and research sector, one significant part of which is intended to cover energy and the search for new energy sources and sources of electrical energy storage. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is the contracting authority, the relevant contracting entity of these programmes and the implementation agency is the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic. I have a whole range of graphs here, of course, on which I can clearly demonstrate how this government is dealing with the support of renewable resources, and if you are interested, I am, of course, ready to answer your other questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr Třešňák, Mr Skopeček, will first respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u14	Nice noon, esteemed colleagues. I would only respond to the Minister. I found some quotes from both the 2015 SEK and the National Action Plan. I will not read these here to make the actual one, but I will get right to the draft national energy and climate plan, where, if I go to specific numbers, it is claimed that in 2030 there should be about 31 to 32 gigawatt hours from nuclear power plants, which means increasing production from existing ones. In 2035 it is already 36.2 gigawatt hours, which means one new nuclear block to the existing ones, and in 2040 it should be even 42.5 gigawatt hours, which would mean perhaps even three new blocks in real life between 2035 and 2037, with the fact that the reduction of the combined committees from black and brown coal from the value of about 49 terawatt hours per year in 2010 to the 15 terawatt hours in 2040 is also expected. Given that the government is currently only talking about building one block in Dukovany, the ambitious figures from the national plan are actually saying otherwise. So we're supposed to understand this - that's the question of the Minister - that the work on both locations will proceed in parallel, and so we're talking about one block in Dukovany and one in Temelín? I have time, but I'm sure I'll repeat my question in an hour on the Permanent Committee. And maybe I can make one comment. It does not seem entirely fair to me from the Government to convene this committee by the plenary week, especially when it is to be attended by ministers and MEPs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u15	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u16	Thank you. In particular, I wanted to respond to the appellant, or rapporteur Balcarová, who said here at the outset that the European Union is the strongest economy and can therefore afford to be the leader of the decarbonisation and so on. I'd like to fix it. It's not true. When you look at the growth rates of European economies, they are one of the lowest in comparison with other economic centres. It is due to their great overregulation, I am sorry, but also because, in my view, the fight against climate change has become a religion, and today the proposals that are coming are already irrational and threaten the prosperity of the European Union. And they threaten the prosperity of the Czech Republic, because the Czech Republic has one of the largest shares of industry in the economy itself, and if we follow the irrational measures, it will, of course, have a very dramatic impact on our economic growth and employment. And it will also have an impact on our citizens' wallets, because if we look at what's going on in the car industry, where the standards on stricter imise go way beyond the limits of physical laws, that means one thing: dramatic expensiveing cars for normal citizens. Those electric cars, which are of course much more expensive, because technology is not yet developed, are of course not able to afford ordinary citizens, and they will pay for this measure at far greater prices for those ordinary cars. So I'd like you to protect the environment. Of course, protecting life's middle is a very conservative value. It is our job to give our landscape, our environment to future generations in its best condition, preferably in the state in which we have taken it over, but let us not succumb to the green religion. Let us do truly rational things to help the environment. By applying to increasingly stricter CO2 standards, we will only undermine our economic growth, which will, of course, lead to no improvement in the environment in the finals. Because the environment is improving in countries that are economically successful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u17	Thank you. Mr Zahradník will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to make any factual arguments. I'll save that for the show I signed up for. But I don't know if it's going to happen today due to priority rights. I would just like to comment technically on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Chair of the Committee on the Environment, Balcarová, on this point. I note that at its meeting on 6 February, the Committee on European Affairs, with the Communication from the European Commission, addressed the Clean Planet for all, adopted a resolution which is quite detailed on these aspects. Given that there has been no questioning or a proposal to discuss this resolution at the House plenary at a given time, which is laid down in the Rules of Procedure, this is also the House's opinion under the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on European Affairs. So at this point in time, the House actually has a valid position, which is actually taken over as the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. Of course, I'll be more specific then. I will also introduce you to the wording of the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. But I just want to point out that the House already has an opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u19	Thank you, Mr Member, and with another factual remark, Mr Kopřiva will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I would only have a technical comment, virtually. procedural to what my previous speaker, Mr. Zahradník, said. While it is true that the Committee on European Affairs, when it adopts a resolution and this does not take place in plenary within a period of time, the committee resolution is valid as a plenary resolution. That's right. However, it is a resolution that we are always making in this resolution as a last item, that the committee chair is to familiarise the committee resolution with the European Commission. After that, the resolution is uploaded into the system and, in fact, European institutions can read the position taken by the Czech House through the Committee on European Affairs. However, it can happen, and I think it is entirely legitimate for us to add this resolution to the committee in some way, not towards the European Commission or to European institutions, but for example. to the Czech government or to the Czech institutions. I think it is entirely legitimate for us to refer to this resolution and to adopt another resolution. Of course, this next resolution should not be contrary to the original resolution of the committee. So then, of course, there is for debate and at the discretion of the President whether the other points or the new resolution will be in conflict or whether it will be voteable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zahradník will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u22	Mr Vice-President, I ask you to tell Mr Kopřiv that I did not in any way say that it would not be possible to vote on the resolution tabled by my colleague. I'm sure that's possible. It just needs to be known, and I think we are in agreement with my colleague Kopřivov, that he already has such an opinion by the House, not by his direct decision, but by the influence of the Rules of Procedure. To that end, it shall submit to the European Commission. It is so that the President of the Committee on European Affairs presents the views of the Committee to the European Commission, and I know that in this proposal by Mrs Balcarová, it is also for the President of the House to submit our resolution to the President of the European Commission. So we just have to make sure that our two positions aren't conflicting. So I'm going to try to do that when it comes to me later, and then when the debate is open, I'm going to try to sort it out so that we can put both of these opinions together somehow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u23	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, with a factual remark. After that, with Mrs Balcarová's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u24	I also want to respond to my colleague Kopřiva. It really needs to be said out loud here that the Committee on European Affairs, if it adopts a resolution, is understood to have been adopted by the entire Chamber of Deputies. It is true that this resolution is then directed at European institutions, but, of course, not only to them. This resolution applies, of course, also to Czech institutions, and if the Committee on European Affairs of the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic adopts a resolution, it is certainly not only information for European institutions, but it is quite important information for the government, the House, the Senate, so that the resolution acts accordingly in some way. Of course, it is true that we can adopt a resolution other or complementary today, but that committee has simply adopted a resolution, it was a resolution on the basis of some compromise agreement, if my colleague and I had Zahradník it, it would probably have been a lot harder for the pirát than it is for you today. However, there has been a compromise, and if we want to drill into it today, we can open Pandořin's box, and this resolution can actually take a completely different course. Moreover, if any of the members of the Committee on European Affairs recognizes that the subject is far beyond that committee and that it is serious enough to discuss it with the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, then, of course, he has the right to ask this when discussing that point on the Committee on European Affairs. I think that the atmosphere on this committee is that colleagues would have approved it for him, and at the time that we dealt with it in the Committee on European Affairs, that would have been the case in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. This did not happen on the part of the pirát at the time, so it is a little strange that the resolution now claims to be inadequate, such as a resolution that needs to be supplemented or changed somehow. I think that this is a good compromise and that they should not go beyond what the Committee on European Affairs has decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u25	Thank you. Now, Mrs Balcarová's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u26	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't be long. It is written in the Rules of Procedure that if someone does not challenge this resolution, it becomes the House's statement. I would quite say that expression is not a resolution and it is a matter for us to actually agree with legislation on how we will take this. I disagree with Mr. zahradník's opinion or Mr. Skopeček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u27	Thank you. The Vice-President of the House of Hanzel is now in favour of the debate. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You know that I come from northern Moravia, a region that is most affected by the bad environment, and I am glad that we can already admit that the climate in our country and our world is changing, that the bad environment is killing us and that we must take seriously the concerns of the current young generation, not just mocking them or teaching them the way some of us do. On how very serious this is, I think that he is paying quite little attention to this plenary in the Chamber of Deputies. We are the ones who are responsible for the situation our planet is in today. I am therefore glad that our government is intensively concerned with this problem. It is clear, however, that we must go much further in our work. We must be active in the international field and consistently demand that the Paris Agreement be implemented. But if the United States and China are not actively joining it, unfortunately, all our efforts here in Europe are quite futile. And if we want others to make a deal, we need to start on our own. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic is well above the EU average in greenhouse gas production due to the massive combustion of brown coal, waste of energy and stagnant development of renewable resources. But we can't go that way like Emmanuel Macron that we're gonna cost the regular people gas. Climate policy must also be socially fair. We need to focus on the big corporations that are the biggest polluters. Limiting personal consumption of each and every one of us is nice, it's a very sympathetic gesture, but it doesn't solve the problem in global. Last but not least, climate policy must also be responsible for industrial regions. Sooner or later, we will stop mining and burning coal, but we must create new jobs. People have to have bread first, and then they can think about climate change. The climate crisis must be used as an opportunity for modernization of the Moravian-Silesian and Ústí Region. Invest in the development of new low-emission production technologies. Start really effectively supporting renewables, not creating other solar barons. The climate is already changing, and we need to prepare ourselves for how to deal with it. We must quickly start changing how we treat agricultural land, how we manage our forests, how we manage water, which will become an increasingly rare raw material. This requires cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment. We've already taken the first steps. So esteemed colleagues, let us continue to work to show students today that we take the climate situation seriously and want a good future for them and for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u29	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am merely referring to the debate on the Rules of Procedure and the seriousness of the resolutions of the Committee on European Affairs, stating that, although Section 4 states that, unless the House decides on inclusion, the decision of the Committee is considered to be the opinion of the House, as mentioned here by Mrs Balcarová, paragraphs 5 and 6 refer nevertheless to the resolution of the House or the resolution of the committee in the case referred to in paragraph 6. In the case of draft acts and other documents of the European Union, they shall be sent to the Government, which shall take them into account in the formulation of its opinion for negotiations in the institutions of the European Union, and in the same way paragraph 6 shall consider the resolution of the House and the resolution of the Committee referred to in paragraph 4 equally to be of equal value. This means that we can understand the Committee's resolution at the same level, with the same weight and with the same effect as the House's resolution on this matter. So clearly the Rules of Procedure speak, and from the one wording in paragraph 4, it is the House's statement, it cannot be deduced that it would have a lower weight. I think the diction of the Rules of Procedure is clear in this regard, we do not need an interpretation of legislation. We will now continue the debate. Mrs Krutáková is next, followed by Mrs Gajdůšková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, climate protection is becoming topic number one all over the world. In my country, however, I feel that the government talks more about climate and ecology and prepares rather misleading laws without real instruments to achieve change. For example, to this day, the government still has not come up with an anti-erotic decree that will substantially tighten the limit of maximum land carry-out from the hectare, requiring effective anti-erosion measures to be implemented. At the same time, over half of the agricultural soils are at risk of erosion. So I am at least glad that there is a law on land modifications that allows the construction and equipment to be realized, which restores at least part of its retention capacity to the landscape. However, these projects, which are of great interest, deserve significant financial reinforcement and we should think about this when drawing up the state budget. The still highlighted project Rainbow, for example, is not a bad idea, but it is just an imaginary drop in the sea. Definitely won't save our parched landscape. Mistakes from the past can also be seen in the state of the water catchment area and in the quality of the soil that does not suck water and lack organic ingredient. And I ask what the last two governments have done to eliminate these negative trends. The instruments are here, as the Minister mentioned, but their implementation is weak and slow. The government's prominence can also be seen in relation to other environmental objectives of the European Union, and we can soon make a hard price for this, for example in the area of waste management, which is not just about landfilling, protecting water resources or protecting nature and landscape. And then it is also a Parisian climate declaration whose goal we will not be able to achieve at the current rate. For example, the OECD has advised us to introduce a carbon tax and convert the settings of excise taxes that are now set wrong. The government's reaction? None yet. In addition, higher national limits for major air pollutants have not been approved. And that's not enough. Let us bear in mind that we are the fourth largest polluter in the European Union per capita, and we are in the 20th place worldwide. The very lukewarm approach of the government to climate protection also says that the Prime Minister is not at the head of the Sustainable Development Council and the entire implementation of the sustainable development objectives is passed to the Ministry of Environment. Let us take a look at Finland, which the Prime Minister likes to mention how he deals with sustainable development and strategic planning systemically and comprehensively. The government is only trying to make everything look good, throwing itself into short-term and shiny solutions, but the long-term results are zero. I therefore call on the government, but also on all of you, to take climate protection seriously and to think about future generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u31	Thank you, ma'am. President Farský will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the hall, I would like to present my opinion for the Mayors and Independents Club and draw your attention to the completion of the resolution that I will present here. We are supporters of this approach, an open topic that affects us all, but we can often feel small in what we can change in it. Climate issues are indeed global. We are not at all flattering places, but we are not the decisive state in the volume of world pollution. But I'm not saying we shouldn't work in this, and we don't have room for major improvements. We wanted to turn your attention to an area that we can improve almost immediately and where the obligation, I think, is fundamental, and this is a matter of soil quality and water quality, especially the underground. As mayors and independents, we have already taken some concrete steps. I will mention the approach, I would say very inspiring, Mayor of Burned Poříčí Pavel Čížek, who did not search for complex definitions, did not call up demanding working groups, but simply proceeded to look into contemporary land maps, into cadastral maps, and sought out those field paths that are still owned by the village and which overwhelm those huge bays of agricultural land, which are one of those problems which causes significant erosion and deterioration of the quality of groundwater, and simply these paths, which are still in the cadastral maps owned by the municipalities, have been separated from the leased land and restored these paths in the landscape. This is a measure that can be implemented within years and is very effective. This is also a challenge to the mayors in the Czech Republic, who care about the soil, water and quality, it is one of the ways they can go. The numbers are alarming. Erosion is destroyed in the Czech Republic every year, 21 million tons of land. Calculated financially, it's a waste somewhere around 10 billion crowns. Fifty percent of agricultural land in the Czech Republic is at risk of erosion. When a survey was carried out in 2016, it was found that 86.8% of the wells where groundwater was controlled were exceeded by one of the pollution limits of this water. Eighty-seven percent of underground waters in the Czech Republic are polluted. These are numbers that can't be ignored, and I think it's our duty to stand up and deal with them. It must be the strength of the whole society ideally. That is why I have bypassed all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, and here I would also like to express my thanks to Minister Brabco, who has expressed his positive opinion on the resolution I tabled to him. This resolution, which I hope will complement, after your vote and will be item 4 of today's vote on item 162, reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to present to the Chamber by 31 May 2019 a concrete plan for the term urgent steps leading to the prevention of excessive water and wind erosion of soil and the reduction of its quality and to avoid deterioration of the quality of both bottom and surface water. Thank you in advance for your support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to introduce you to the apologies that have come in the meantime. Mr Petr Pávek apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 11 am to 13 pm due to a doctor's visit. President Zbyněk Stanjura apologizes for today's meeting from 14:30 to 16:00 for working reasons, and Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes for today's meeting between 11:30 and 12:30 on account of urgent work issues. We're in a debate. It should be Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's turn, but I will not give her the floor anymore, because it is 12.29 and at 12.30 we have seven voting points. [[Mrs Gajdůšková reports that she wants to perform for at least one minute.]] If Mrs GajdůGajdůšková can make it in half a minute, of course I can give her one sentence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u34	Thank you. I'll make it in half a minute because we're talking about the future, honourable House, government. And to that future, I would like to wish our dear colleague Petr Dolínek, who was born this morning, and his birthday. So good health, good luck, good luck. And I will continue when we continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-002-162.u35	Thank you. Yes, congratulations, colleague. Now, please, let us proceed to discussing the points that we have included at 12:30. First of all, we're going to address point 117. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can focus on the polls. Opening point
