ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - second reading We're at the second reading we interrupted yesterday, that is, 16. 4. We interrupted the debate on this point on Tuesday, as I have already said, during the general debate which was interrupted during Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech. I recall that the resolutions of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Constitutional Committee were delivered as House prints 205/1 to 5. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of the plaintiff Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who has already been here, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Jan Volný. Mr. Volný, please! Thank you. I will ask, where appropriate, if the appellant or rapporteurs are interested in speaking at this time. This does not look like it, so we will continue the interrupted general debate. [[Secretary Alena Schiller is reporting.]] You can, yes. So the Minister is interested in speaking before the debate is opened, so thank you. And before I give you my word, I will ask the House once again for peace. We have a rather strongly debated press, so it would be advisable for those who want to pay attention to it to pay attention to it, and I would ask others to move their actions into the foyer. [[The O.R.'s slowly calming down.]] Let's hope so. There's still a lot of movement. Please, Madam Secretary, I hope you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up and respond to yesterday's rather long debate on electronic sales records. I was just taking quick notes during the debate, and I'd like to comment on that. The relatively long debate here was from the members of the pirate party and was actually about how the Ministry of Finance calculated and estimated the benefits of the EET on the fiscal side, i.e. on the revenue side of the state budget. I would like to say that I am really - and I have fallen here to be fair - to hold meetings at the Ministry of Finance, as I promised in plenary and on the Committee on Budgets. My colleagues presented there, unfortunately I could not be there because at that time I thought I was involved either in the Senate or in the Chamber of Deputies, just somewhere where I am unemployable. And my colleagues - yesterday a presentation was criticized here. I'm just saying that a presentation - and I think that's what we all do - is never an exhausting material. The presentation is a kind of basis for discussion and it has fulfilled the role. And then, of course, the question was the other substantive debate that my colleagues and representatives of the Chamber of Deputies had. We never claimed that there could be more of these routes to estimate collections. [[Can't he?]] We've chosen the method we've chosen. Of course, we are quite simply able to determine collection over consumption, above economic growth. The numbers are clear, and VAT clearly declares it. And it's harder to separate what control reports are worth and what share is the control report and what share is EET when we estimate this share two thirds to one third. It was also here yesterday quite in detail that there were various issues that were not answered. Unfortunately, I wasn't there, but I would say that under the motto "who wants to hit a dog always finds a stick" - I was debating it with my colleagues, I just know their opinion, they explained it to me in some way, and the question is whether the other party just wanted to listen or didn't want to. We are always open to any debate, any contribution, but of course they must really want to debate and not look for a needle in a haystack. [[9.40 hours]] Several issues have been raised here. The first issue that was demonstrated here yesterday was dispute number one, I would like to indicate how to determine autonomous growth. The Ministry of Finance takes a change in household consumption expenditure and a change in government consumption expenditure at current prices for the entire economy for 2017, that was 6.3 %, whereas the EET calculation is carried out on a quartal basis. I admit that I'm having a rather technical debate here right now, but yesterday, these questions were legitimate. Therefore, we do not take into account the growth of individual sectors, because they already partially involve the positive effects of the EET, so the impact of the EET cannot be shown in this way in a precise manner. The growth of consumption itself partly involves positive effects of EET, so we also slightly underestimate the positive impact of EET, the very positive effect of reducing the grey economy is usually quantified with a certain delay in time. Controversy number two. We are cleaning up the difference between the increase in actual collection and the autonomous collection from everyone, the question was. Detained excess deductions, control reports. I answer this as follows: The effect of over-deducted deductions on VAT collection generally decreases continuously, the figures are clear, I have comparable ones. I watch it year-on-year after month. For your information, for example, in February last year, the Financial Administration held back around four to five billion. In February this year it is a little over one, one and a half billion. This is not a bad activity of the Financial Administration, it is simply a result of the fact that the Financial Administration has a huge amount of data from control reports and records of sales and uses it for its analytical activities. That means he's getting a lot more and more accurate on who he's gonna be looking at. If you imagine a check report, there will be some sort of pairing after the inspection report is submitted, the control reports of suppliers and customers are paired up and must be met. And actually, in the first phase of pairing, mistakes are revealed that will be removed. So the Financial Administration, when it's doing the so-called. second pairing - it's a technical debate, but I've been provoked to it, so I apologize for it in advance - so she's just gonna have a really potentially problematic subject to review. And that's what we wanted. Don't bother tax entities. That means we're looking at more than a third of the entities that the Financial Administration has been investigating earlier. The aggregate amount of over-deducted deductions, as I said, fell by that amount. Detailed breakdown of retained excess deductions according to a specific sector only for the first and second EET wave is not technically possible from ADIS, the system we have 30 years, simply to get. And the detainees of excessive deductions at restaurants and hotels are probably entirely marginal. If the excess deduction had not been recovered, the actual recovery would have been higher, i.e. the impact of the EET would have been correctly higher. So let's think about it. The fact that it returns more and more quickly then affects the collection that the collection is lower. But that's a positive influence. That's all we wanted. We wanted to straighten out the business environment, collect more taxes, but don't hold back the taxes either. Don't bother checking where the reasons aren't. And thanks to the analytical activity, as the Financial Administration says in the Delegated sense of the bunker, where it actually collects and analyzes 20 analysts this data and sends it in an aggregated form generalized to individual financial authorities, this activity is improving. And that's the very important other positive shift. So please, it needs to be put in full context. [[Permanent restlessness in the hall.]] Impact of control report on recovery of first and second waves of EET, why are we not taking it into account in the first and second waves? The question was. In the first and second wave sectors, EET is primarily active -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u3	Madam Secretary, I must interrupt you. Noise is no longer acceptable. I would ask my colleagues, particularly on my left, to settle down, or to move their debates into the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In the first and second wave sectors, EET is primarily active because it is business to customer activities, final consumer, not sales in the next business chain article. On the other hand, the control report is aimed at eliminating VAT fraud among business payers. In addition, the audit report was already introduced in 2016, i.e. its impact was already significantly reflected in the 2016 recovery. In the following years it is mainly the influence of so-called. heavy analysts, which is focused on large-scale fraud, on so-called. Carousel fraud. Thus, not fraud involving the final consumer. Controversy number three. Percentage of household consumption, influence of foreigners on VAT. A macro aggregate of consumption expenditure was used to express autonomous VAT growth for the first and second waves. In the case of catering and accommodation services, the data of national accounts is based on the fact that over 90 percent of the spending in these sectors is carried out by households, final consumers, and in the case of retail, we assume that it is also carried out logically by households as main consumers. The macroeconomic aggregate of household and government consumption expenditure in the EET analysis is based on the so-called a national concept. So it does not include spending foreigners in the Czech Republic. From the 2017 data, only Czech households spending on spending in a particular sector of the first wave grew at a faster pace year on year than Czech and foreign households spending combined. The spending of foreign households in the Czech Republic thus increased at a slower rate year-on-year rate. This is, on the contrary, the impact of EET on VAT has been slightly humiliated within specific sectors. Data from national accounts covering expenditure of domestic and foreign households only in those sectors of the first EET wave are available with a certain delay and are affected by the EET effect. For these reasons, the macroeconomic aggregate of expenditure on household and government consumption for the entire economy, which in itself is not so strongly affected by this effect, was therefore used to express autonomous VAT growth. Controversy number four. It can be used for autonomous VAT growth so-called gross added value instead of household and government consumption expenditure? My answer: The content of the gross value added aggregate is different from the construction of VAT and does not correspond to it. Basically the idea of a concept is similar, in reality it is very different variables e.g. for export. Gross added value in national accounts published by the Czech Statistical Office is the total production in the Czech Republic for a given period reduced by intermediate consumption, i.e. It also includes all costs, not only recognised inputs, as well as all goods and services created in the Czech Republic for export. In contrast, imports are subject to value added tax. VAT is a general consumption tax and, as such, is borne by final consumers. And final consumers generate VAT returns. For this reason, macroeconomic aggregates related to the change in consumption are commonly used to approximate the change in VAT returns in the economy, which is normally done by e.g. The International Monetary Fund or the European Commission. Controversy number five. The claim of the pirate party that we use macro aggregates in constant prices in the calculation. It is not true that macroeconomic values were used in the estimation of EET's impact. It is necessary to use, and the Ministry of Finance has always done so, only nominal quantities or current prices. The principle of the operation of VAT is based directly on nominal prices. The price of goods and services for VAT calculation already includes the effect of inflation and the use of constant prices without inflation would not make any sense for any year-on-year comparison of VAT. So that different sectors grow or fall in the economy in different ways over time is a common phenomenon. Comparing the growth rates of individual sectors does not make sense among themselves. The point is to compare the growth of some sectors with fundamental variables. Some sectors are more focused on their production to the final consumer, some are rather linked to another business link and produce only intermediate consumption for other sectors. [[9.50 hours]] As regards the request of the Budget Committee for the application of the same EET calculation procedure for VAT in the first and second wave sectors as well as for the period prior to the introduction of the EET, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Financial Administration, is working on this simulation, which makes it difficult, however, that, in the years prior to the introduction of the EET, legislative changes were implemented on VAT almost annually, which often had an impact on recovery. Quantification of their influence is then very difficult in itself and this biases the simulation and actually makes it very difficult. I would like to point out, at the end of my final word, that I think that the further extension of not accepting the EET is against the interest of this country, against the interests of entrepreneurs. The Committee on Budgets and the Economic Committee have repeatedly come to support me by all representatives of the country's business unions and chambers. They were talking about their experiences. Zdeněk Juračka, head of the Association of Traditional Czech Trade, represented by 700 stores, has appeared there. He set an example, when he addressed it in writing, by letter - I quote, everyone there heard who was there - the President of the ODS and offered him his cooperation and an explanation of why these representatives support small EET stores. Why it is important to straighten out the business environment, why it would be the worst thing if EET stayed halfway. So I ask again - who does the opposition speak for? Entrepreneurs just support it. We created a new offline mode. We created a possibility when many business activities were quoted here yesterday, where it will be difficult to have an electronic record of sales - we say it is possible to use this offline mode. I am prepared to actively support Mr Onderka and Mr Juříček's amendment to make the limit of cash payments for the possibility of using the offline regime, i.e. The paper guy, when we say it to the public, he raised it to 600,000. I noticed that business unions and chambers also encouraged this to increase this limit. There will be a choice, the entrepreneur will be able to choose. Because a whole series - and I go in and debate with them - tells me that they prefer to keep EET, that it's easier for them. My beautician, for example. I was debating with her last week, and I was saying why, everyone's paying me with a card, why wouldn't I be... And the terminal connects EET to me, it doesn't bother me, I don't care. And if the room painter you quoted here is stalling, he's just gonna have the paper mode. And it's nothing that he wouldn't have to do today if the customer asked him to. It's no big deal. He's got to issue it today, this document. So what's your problem? That we're talking here for the absolute majority of honest businessmen? Does that bother you? A party that profiles itself as a party that supports entrepreneurs. Then I really don't understand. Of course, we are counting on the introduction of a flat-rate tax. And we barely came up with it, in line with our program, the government statement, because, of course, that's where we have it... I consider debates about whether someone had it there sooner or later to be completely unnecessary. What concerns our businessman: when will it be? And what's important is that in 30 years it's just not here. And we're working on it with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health. And where did a single collection point crash? I was working with him. The legislation was, yes, I admit it. It crashed at the fact that 3.5 billion were spent. - read the SAO report - in that time and did not create IT systems. You just can't do that on your knees today. If the Financial Administration gets one payment, they have to settle it and send it to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, which is, of course, more real than JIM, when the payment was each other's single collection point - that's what they called, I'm sorry about the shortcut. This is going to be easier because the payment is going to be the same, but it also requires setting up the IT systems. We started right away. I'm gonna send the legitimist to an inter-departmental commentary session in a month. But that's not the end of it. I believe you will support this, because we all have an interest in making businessmen's lives easier, especially small businessmen. But you also have to set up IT systems. And if we start making them before there's legislation, at least at some point, I'll be facing criminal charges that we've invested somewhere. And as for your question, Mr. Ambassador, I think Ferjenčík, I'm sorry if it was someone else that we're running the competition on the receipt paper. Of course we have untidy conditions in case there's a problem. Of course, that's what our lawyers have prepared. I'm aware of that. But on the other hand, when the law passes, and I believe it passes, we won't be ready, and I'll face criticism again. So understand that we're doing the best we can at the time. And if we provide receipts at any place in the Financial Administration, whenever he can pick them up for free, in some number line, I still think it's the better option than to bother and burden businessmen by having to get them or print them somewhere and create more costs. And, of course, we're counting on an insurance policy in case there's any problem. But I believe that it will not, because we all bear in mind the main - a level playing field for business. And that's what electronic sales records provide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u5	Thank you, too. Thank you very much to the Minister for taking part in this expert debate, detailed, before the end. I would like to point out that this was not the final word, but the opportunity to speak before the reopening of the debate. Now I have three note cards. Mr Martin Jiránek apologises between 9.30 and 12.00 for the hearing. President Radek Vondráček apologizes between 9 and 11 for work reasons. And she apologizes to Mrs Balaštíková between 9:45 and 14:00 for work reasons. Thank you. Now I have some factual points. However, I cannot allow them yet, because the debate has not yet been opened. However, one of them is Mr Munzar, who may speak before the opening of the debate as rapporteur for the committee. Then I'll ask if he's interested in this. He doesn't. Okay. Mr Benda is not even here. In that case, I am now opening a general debate, virtually. I'm reopening. This was interrupted at the time of Mr Ferjenčík's speech, who is interested in continuing. So please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will first respond to the Minister and then present my last amendment to those proposals that I have tabled. Madam Secretary, thank you very much for the performance. I welcome that this debate is still being held in the debate and not through the media. You mentioned that your ministry was working on an assessment of the autonomous influence over the years, and if the formula is consistent with the increase in the selection in the past, but you said it wasn't meaningful to compare the current selection, the fields with the EET and without the EET. At the seminar, we asked you to compare the fields with EET with the fields without EET with a high level of household consumption. That was a request we made to Deputy Kouba. Specifically, it was those fields, for example, that fall under NACE 55 and 56, but at the same time they are not catering services, that is to say, the stand sales, which are exempt, to find out how much VAT has been collected in these fields, which are clearly similar in nature. So I think that's a perfectly reasonable request. I would like to ask you to actually process this, because I don't think there's a dispute over the fact that it can be compared. That is, if it turns out that in fields without EET, where there is a high ratio of household consumption, VAT collection is growing at a comparable rate, then I think that claims about the benefits of EET are at least questionable. It's for the show. [[10.00 hours]] There's another reaction. You were talking about the unions, specifically the representatives of some chain of commerce. My amendment responds precisely to these reservations, House document 2634, which cancels the third and fourth wave, but at the same time extends the first and second wave to all NACE 55 and 56 codes, regardless of whether or not it is a food service. This is what solves the problem where restaurants and supermarkets complain that there's a stand in front of them that doesn't belong in the EET and competes with them. So I have incorporated this reservation in my amendment. But I claim that craftsmen do not compete with these shops and restaurants in any way, so it does not make sense to claim that the business environment needs to be compared, to introduce the same mechanism for plumbers as for restaurants. I think I've dealt with this union reminder, I'm dealing with the problem that people who actually do business in the same field should have the same conditions, but at the same time I'm canceling the pointless expansion of the EET to the fields where one-on-one transactions take place and there's no possible control. So much for the Madam Secretary's speech. Furthermore, my last amendment, which I am proposing. This is House document 2633 and I will read it in a detailed debate. What's going on? In fact, I also respond to the Minister who said that entrepreneurs wouldn't even want a special regime, that they'd rather stay in the EET. The reason is that the special regime is unusable. And it's useless because you require a special regime participant to send a table to the IRS every three months with his daily sales, and that's just completely absurd and useless bureaucracy, where a businessman instead of making money and working for people, doing deals, rewriting his sales into an Excel spreadsheet, doing subtotals after days and sending it to the IRS. Logically, when the conditions are set like this, people will not be interested. That is why I have proposed a compromise text so that the subtotals are not done after days, but after months. That means once every three months, the businessman sort out the receipts after he's published a month, does the total in a month, does it three times and sends the total to the financial office. I think that's an acceptable compromise. The moment the total revenue needs to be added up, I don't think it's such an enormous burden. But I really think that making him add it up after days is a completely absurd bureaucracy that doesn't help anything. The tax office will still receive it in paper form, so it won't be able to work with it at the level of some analytical data. In addition, they are businessmen with a small turnover of cash payments. This is my amendment 2633, which abolishes the absurd bureaucracy of the forms for registration under the special regime. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u7	Thank you. Now I have one more note. Mr Pavel Kováčik apologizes to us today from 10 to 11 o'clock for medical reasons or medical examinations. And now there are factual points. Mr Munzar with a point of fact, Mrs Maříková and Mrs Kovářová will be prepared after her. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to respond to the Minister. I originally thought that I had entered into a detailed debate that I would only justify my amendments, however, about what the Minister said here. I was present at the meeting of both the budget and the economic committee. And the alleged representative of small businessmen was a representative of the COOP chain cooperative, which has a total of 2,700 stores. Indeed, I cannot consider such a person to be representatives of small shops and small entrepreneurs. It is clear to me that the big ones tend to implement the EET and claim that it is a settlement of the business environment, because, of course, the cargo for a large chain for the acquisition of equipment, administration and maintenance is completely different from for a small businessman who has a small shop that he has to take care of somewhere in a rural village. For them, this is not really a settlement of the business environment, it is discriminatory for them and it divides the business environment. I understand the big guys want to get rid of the competition. But I just don't want to live in a state where most people don't want to do business because of a bad business environment and too much responsibilities, checks and regulations, and they prefer to get busy. I just don't want to go back to turning around when we go to the hairdresser's, the hairdresser's cleat race. 1028 - agro-cading, I don't want to live to see the situation that we have to call plumbers - a split race 258 - agro-installerism and so on. I don't want to live to see a world like this. I want us to support active citizens who can take care of themselves. And it's not like it's just the honest ones, Madam Secretary, want it, and the dishonest ones don't want it. This is a useless label and a totally mime of this discussion. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u9	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Maříková. Mrs Kovářová will be ready - at this point we have four factual points. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond to what the Minister has said. I do not know what you, the Minister through Mr President, are based on that entrepreneurs support the EET, whether it is from how you communicate with them. Because I hear something completely different. Not that it simplifies their lives, but it complicates them. So I don't know if you have any statistics or polls or whether you're based on how many businessmen went bankrupt because of EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u11	Thank you. And now I beg Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr Skopeček will prepare for a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to the Minister's words that various associations support EET. I was also on the budget committee, and we asked the representatives of the unions how many they represent those small businessmen with a turnover of up to CZK 1 million. The answer didn't come up at all, because basically none. What it said, however, was that the shops were closing, but that only 2% had closed. But it didn't say where it closed. And the shops are clearly closing in the country. What it said, however, was that trades were closing, but turnovers were rising. Yes, they are, but the big ones, because the little ones have closed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u13	Thank you for this point of fact. Before I invite another speaker, I have a note. We apologize to Mrs Helena Langšádlová between 9.57 and 10.30 for personal reasons. I beg you, Mr Skopeček, with a factual remark. Mr Staněk will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond in three thesises the secretary said. One. She was walking behind the EET because she said it was a business settlement. Of course, this is not a settlement of the business environment. It's a new regulation and administration. And by new regulation and administration, you are not comparing any business environment, but making it even more complicated. If the Minister wants to level up the business environment, he is abolishing unnecessary regulation and simplifying very complex taxes in our country. That would be an equalization of the business environment. [[10.10 hours]] Then she asked us what businessmen we represent. I meet tens, maybe hundreds of entrepreneurs who don't want EET. They're especially the little ones and the high school ones. I guess the secretary usually meets the big ones who want it. I just know a lot - and I can bring them to the Minister - of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who really see it as a thing that can destroy their business. And as for the flat-rate tax that the secretary mentioned here, I also think it almost doesn't matter if one or the other political entity had it in the program sooner or later. However, for me, there is no guarantee that what you have mentioned, Madam Secretary, is that you have it in the Government's programming declaration, because in the government's programming declaration, for example, you have had to cancel a super-gross wage for years. It's part of this government's programming statement, it's also part of the previous government's programming statement, and we don't have a super-gross wage cancellation until today. So the fact that you have something in your programming statement, it's more likely that they'll never see the light of day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u15	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Staněk. Mr. Pávek will be ready. At this point, we have three factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, dear colleagues. I'd respond to my previous speakers. I would begin by means of Mr President with my esteemed colleague Munzar. I also sat on the economic committee, and the deputy represented a cooperative that has 700 stores, but there were also stores in tiny villages that have a turnover of thousands of crowns a day. So we can't paused that he was just a representative of a big conglomerate. He was a representative of just a colorful platypus of stores. Second reaction to the liquidation of small businessmen or small businessmen. Introducing the EET is, of course, the thing we can save another hour on here. I have small businessmen in my neighborhood and in my family, small businessmen. And EET doesn't liquidate them in any way. Initialization costs in the order of thousands of crowns and negligible monthly costs are well balanced by having to have order thanks to EET, which they did not have before because it was not their priority. It's a priority today. They have perfectly managed warehouses, they know what they're running out of, they know what to buy. So it's not as black as you're trying to paint here. And one last comment about the destruction of shops in small villages. Please, it's not that this relatively low load has laid them down again. This is simply because most villagers work in large cities and simply buy where they work. And if he comes home after that, logically, the purchase for 50 crowns of some basic equipment of basic food can no longer hold the store on its feet. This is what it looks like in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u17	Thank you, too. And Mr. Pávek, please. Mr Kobza will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to the Minister's words. I was on that economic committee where she introduced us to representatives of various business associations that she invited there. Basically, they were all representatives of companies that are managed by managers. In most cases, the people themselves have never created any value, they have only driven, and therefore the EET is a form of control for them in their own way. That's understandable to me. What is not understandable to me is that the Ministry of Finance, through a secretary who has also spent her entire life in offices, has never created any real value, so it actually works for people of the same type. And the fact that the EET in the last wave hits those who still create some values that we all need, among other things, because we all need craftsmen who, like now, will still have to carry on with an electronic calculator, will have to have a lot of complications. I think that this is wrong and we should distinguish correctly. I would suggest that we just don't let those last EET waves go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u19	Thank you for your time, and please, Mr Kobza. Mr Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I watch the contributions of my previous speakers, and I feel like I'm living in some other galaxy or other society because I live in the countryside, I live in a small village, and there's no way that people who work in local agriculture would go shopping in the city. On the contrary, they are fully dependent on local shops, local businesses that are gradually dying out. As a small businessman myself without owning x establishments, because we don't really have one, so of course I'm struggling with EET and so far the only thing that has been handed over to me personally was a number of fines for filling something wrong in the inspection report or sending something somewhere late, without any damage being caused by the state, without any tax default or anything like that, but simply for formal reasons. Of course, these fines are very unpleasant, and I understand that they are a reason for many people to think about whether they will even do business. And as for the craftsmen, let's remember that a handy craftsman may not be a good IT guy. So when some IT technician explains to a chimney sweeper how to operate an EET, it's probably the same thing as if the chimney sweeper was explaining to an I.T. guy how to clean a chimney. Please, these are people who think differently, they're skilled, they're doing a good job, but you want them to do something they just can't do, and they don't want to learn it, and it could be the reason why they actually went to work. So I'd like to call you here for common sense. And let's not put an EET where it doesn't belong. [[Attention on time.]] I'm against introducing a second wave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u21	Thank you and please Mr Munzar with a factual remark. It's the last one at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I want to respond to a colleague, Staněk, who I personally respect very much, but I will not agree with him here and I will very much argue with him. For that small businessman who has that one consumption somewhere in the village and only sells basic foods when we're talking about the established waves of EET, it's obviously pretty substantial, money. Everyone can figure out how many things they have to sell in their store to pay for it. And I'm sure he has other priorities. What matters is the atmosphere that EET has created in society. She divided the company into employees and entrepreneurs. And the negative atmosphere was still due to the fact that restrictive fines were introduced in connection with the EET, which are not at all for any entrepreneur wanting to circumvent his tax obligations. They're for trivial mistakes, administrative mistakes. And the administration is merely about the state's imposition, instead of its control activity, he put the control activity on the businessmen's expense. And that's the problem. And the problem is the restriction. And the problem is the restrictive approach of the Financial Administration that he's fined for. Since the fines aren't for tax evasion, the fines are not for the misconduct of entrepreneurs, but for their employees. That's what created the negative atmosphere in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u23	Thank you for keeping time. And here is Mr Růžička with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u24	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not gonna say anything here that I heard from someone as a colleague of the ODS. I'll say my own experience. I have a hunting goods store in a small five thousand-dollar town, with guns, with ammunition, so I had to get an EET. Please, from the time of EET's installation until today, I didn't have to touch this system at all, and I'm going to ask for a hit on the accountant's accountant's tax portal, which I'm going to e-mail. So whoever's here is saying how hard it is, how no one can just do it, so they're lying. What other businessmen are telling you, they're lying. It's absolutely undemanding, maintenance-free. [[10.20 hours]] And since I'm selling weapons, and I had a salesman there who was over 60 years old, he had to learn how to work with a central weapons registry, which is much more complicated, and every charge and every gun he had to put into that central register and then print out a gun sale notice. Even that 60-year-old man did this, so I don't know what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u25	Thank you, too. That's all the facts at the moment. No. Mr. Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I can't do this. I told you yesterday, it just split the House and the company. We're at second reading, and we're back to square one, thanks to the Secretary's speech here. I don't understand why he's teasing us with his comments. If she hadn't done it, the discussion wouldn't be here anymore. And comparing the sale of weapons to the sale of rolls, that's a pretty strong caliber. I understand. When I want to sell guns, bullets, that's a little different business, and, of course, there are regulations somewhere else. And the villages. You know, I was on the Economic Committee, too, and that COOP guy really surprised me - the degree of intolerance that he behaved there, and really, he takes it as a whole, a big firm. He's no small businessman. And when I look at the villages, if it weren't for our Čech with Vietnamese origins, there really is nothing at all in a number of cases in the villages, and even today they require that the municipalities support them. Something's wrong here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u27	Thank you. Mr Votava, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u28	Good day, ladies and gentlemen. It sounded like the EET was splitting up the company. I would rather say that it divides its own entrepreneurs and tradesmen. I have had the honour of being the chairman of the budget committee here in the last parliamentary term, and the Minister certainly knows that I have tried or fought to minimize the exceptions. And it ends up exactly what I said, how it ends. The third, fourth wave moved, and I also had a problem with it, because I think it was supposed to be done the way it was planned. That's when KDU-ČSL colleagues forced it. But to get back to why it divides businessmen and entrepreneurs. Because, of course, someone has an exception, someone doesn't. And those who have it say, why do I have to and why does he not have to? Friends, it was based on a thing that rather divides our businessmen and businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u29	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time and with a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u30	Thank you for the floor. Just an observation. For health reasons, I was not on the Economic Committee, but I was suspicious when I heard COOP, asking if COOP was by chance Mr. Zdeněk Juračka. Just a little memory, then. Mr Zdeněk Juračka, Vice-President of the Trade and Tourism Union, lobbied dramatically at tripartites 2007, 2008, 2011, 2012 for register cash registers and any tools that would help the chains to liquidate small stores. From his point of view, I have always understood this, but our government was always against it, and at that time it was behind the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce, which advocated small entrepreneurs. So if you're taking witnesses like this, Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, you had a historic lobbyist with you for these repressive instruments that favor the great against the little ones. And it's completely -- when you ask who we're talking about here, I'd like to compare it to something like, in agriculture, the ceiling of direct payments. Yes, of course, here we are - some of us, I'm not going to speak for those honest businessmen who will want the same for everyone and they will want the payments unspoiled. And then there'll be us fighting for the little ones who are trying their best to defy the oligopoly, and they want to have it covered. And with EET, it's something like that. You are simply a government that seeks to support the biggest businesses, too, by throwing the smallest into harsh and unnecessary repression. Of course, it's recording the big ones in sales. You speak for them, we speak for the little ones. At least it's clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u31	Thank you for keeping the time, and please Mr Bělobrádek with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, my fellow Members, through Mr President, I would like to respond to the reference made by Mr Votava. Yes, social democracy, the YES movement in the previous government, despite what was stated in the coalition treaty, violated this coalition treaty and pushed for the EET to join for everyone. We put it into the coalition agreement that it would be on selected types, and you broke the coalition agreement and we resisted it because we wanted either the register or the EET to be only where it makes sense. I can document correspondence with then Prime Minister Sobotka and then Minister of Finance Babiš, where we pointed out that in some cases it does not make sense and in some cases it is counterproductive. Even the Ministry of Finance, the ANO movement then responded to it, and those proposals that they initially rejected and that we clearly pointed out were conclusive, so they eventually accepted them. So just when the mention was made, it was a violation of the coalition agreement, and we were just doing what was in the coalition agreement, where it was clearly written that it wouldn't be for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u33	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. That's all the facts at the moment. If no one else claims a factual remark from the point of view, we will continue the general debate to which Mr Profant is registered in writing. I'll cross your application out. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u34	Good morning, my fellow Members, the honourable public, and especially the Minister, unfortunately, I will have to repeat myself a bit with my contribution from the first reading, because I simply did not get the answer. And I think that these are problems that cannot be ignored, but, unfortunately, they are problems that cannot be addressed by amendments too much, because they do not belong directly to legislation and must be addressed by the Ministry itself. In my opinion, however, it does not do so. Dear Coalition Members, do you know this document? [[He's showing the publication.]] It is the Digital Czech Republic written by Mr Dzurilla, the government's agent for digitizing your government. It says things like to prevent vendor lock-in, i.e. unwanted ties to one supplier. It says we have competent people who care about information systems who understand them. Our people, employed by this state, not by a supplier company fulfilling the interests of a supplier company, as is the case with an MPSV and a finance department. Unfortunately, EET is a typical example of this. Prime Minister Babiš has repeated here twice in the House how the EET is a successful eGovernment project. It's not. It is just a demonstration of how modern technology can be used to bully its own people and not for the benefit of them. It's so easy. Even with EET, we could take positive steps. I still don't understand why you don't take it positively. Are you really so unimaginable that you can't rise above simple control and bring some added value? Anything these entrepreneurs might appreciate? Ease up on small businessmen? [[10.30 hours]] She illustrated the discussion here a while ago. I liked what Mr. Kobza said that not everyone is an IT guy, but that's exactly it. Not everyone has to be an IT guy to use a cell phone. Then why isn't it as simple as that? Because they didn't order it that way because they just worked with incompetent people. We all didn't see first, then saw the BDO analysis, which is a very dubious company, which contained a lot of mistakes, and when these projects are done like this, it can't end well. And it didn't end well either. It's not easy, it's quite complicated for a layman to work with certificates etc. and in my opinion, it's completely unnecessary, especially if we imagine it on the craftsmen, etc. I don't think it compares to, like, a supermarket or a gun store. These are simply static establishments that already have a great deal of directing to work around, and not simple handicrafts or simple stall sales or anything where any other thing is a liability. But at the same time, they provide us with important services that we all probably consume and want. And because of the way this project is conducted, all we have is a deepening vendor lock-in. That means there's nothing we can do about the system. Actually, we're just doing what the supplier tells us to do. He'll come and say, "We'd have more profits if you'd added another profession. Then come the manufacturers of devices such as O2 etc., and you will say: We would like to sell more cashiers and equipment to EET. And you're gonna say, "That's great, so we're gonna put it in place. She's gonna talk for a while, but what's wrong with that, right? Everything's wrong with that, because we might want data driven policy, data-controlled policy here. And that's what President Stanjura pointed out yesterday. You're going to give us three lines of revenue analysis. You make an information system that collects thousands of data every minute, and at the same time you don't get the data, can't you work with them? Don't you have to use it to help those small ones to thrive on the backbone of the economy - small and medium-sized enterprises? No, you're completely ignoring that. For you, it's just bullying, just a tool to bully the little ones so the big ones can have a good time. So I ask you, Madam Secretary, what active steps did your resort take to get rid of the vendor lock-in in the ADIS area, into which the EET is integrated? And how do you care if you expand that principle, you won't be trapped? You've been complaining about this yourself repeatedly in your speeches, but we don't see the result!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u35	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, ministers. I thank my colleague Profant. This is the last one entered in the general debate. No one else to... My colleague, Ferjenčík, still in the general debate - Mr. Member, yes? [[Yes.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a number of amendments. The designs are already being uploaded into the system. I'm afraid we won't be able to process them so quickly, so I suggest we return this press to the board of guarantees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u37	Okay, I made a note. Anyone else for the general debate? It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? It's not like that. So a vote that is possible under § 93 para. 2 of the Act on Rules of Procedure is the vote tabled by Mr Ferjenčík, which means that the bill is returned to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. We will vote on this proposal in the number 40 vote. I will sign you all out, I will ask you for a new registration, and since Vice-President Pikal has called on several times for quiet and discussion outside the O.R., I will go on and wait until the number of entries is settled so that we can manage this procedural vote properly. The number of entries is still increasing. I'm gonging. I repeat to those who have arrived in the hall that a procedural proposal has fallen in the general debate pursuant to Section 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act, namely to refer the proposal back to the Guarantee Committee for renegotiation. We will decide on this proposal in the vote number 40 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 40 of the 141 Members present for 65, against 75. The motion was denied. We can therefore continue, and I am therefore opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. We've got ten logged in. Mrs. Věra Kovářová begins. My colleague, just a little while longer when the O.R. calms down. Please disband the discussion circles. Settle down or discuss in the foyer. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u38	Allow me to sign up for our amendments in a detailed debate, and these are under the numbers 2594 and 2592. Let me just remind you that the first one concerns associations, when the EET will be abandoned by associations that have revenues of up to 500,000, and the second amendment is that those who have a turnover of up to CZK 1 million, i.e. VAT payers, would be excluded from the EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Next in a detailed debate is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now apply to my amendments, which I have read. This is therefore House Document No 2634, which is the abolition of the third and fourth EET wave. Furthermore, the House document 2633 - these are the rules for the form of registration of sales under the special scheme, so that this is actually applicable and it is not a completely absurd bureaucracy. [[10.40 hours]] It is also House document 2628, this is the holiday package, the cancellation of the EET for the sale of Christmas trees and mistletoe and the sale of Easter babbles and karsts. Indeed, I find it quite absurd that products that are sold only a few days or weeks a year fall under the EET and have to buy a special electronic cash register for them. Furthermore, the House document 2667, which I serve together with my colleague Kovářová. It is an option - I stress the possibility, not the obligation - of craftsmen, to print receipts themselves and not have to pick up the receipts block at the tax office. The main argument is that if they get some form from the Ministry and fill it out themselves, they won't have to either stamp or manually fill out the receipts that the IRS will give them. We really do not understand why the time stamp should be returned. Furthermore, the House document 2665, which is an amendment that addresses the issue of anticipated revenue. I don't see why there should be any self-assessment of whether the craftsman meets or fails to meet the anticipated income. Anyone who demonstrates clear conditions should be able to register according to a special regime. I don't understand why there should be some sort of circle of administrative assessment to argue that the expected cash revenues are more than 600,000, or they aren't. Let the craftsman just apply, and if he doesn't comply, he'll move on to electronic records. But let's leave it to him to decide whether or not he's gonna be there. Let us not give this arbitrary authority to officials. So it was House Document 2665. Furthermore, Parliament's document 2666, which is exactly the same in terms of content as the previous one, is merely submitted as a proposal for the press which has been passed by the Committee on Budgets. So one of them is a general amendment to the draft government law and the other is an amendment to the amendment. Again, it is not the arbitrary power of officials to decide who is not to be included in the special record. Furthermore, it is Housed Document 2627. It's about time limits. I really consider it absurd for citizens to have to respond to the authorities in units of days, and the authorities have 30 days to process a banal request. So I suggest we cut the deadline 30 days to 10 days. This is House document 2627. The last amendment I propose to this press is House document 2626. It's the release of the peanut from the EET. Once again, the peanut is only sold between August 1st and November 30th. As with the holiday package of those festive products, I really see no reason to introduce an EET for the seasonal product. So these are my amendments. In addition, I am reading a motion to reject the bill, which would save us a whole series of votes. And I would like to reiterate that the extension of the EET to the third and fourth wave, the extension to craftsmen and other free professions is absurd because it is uncontrollable. For this reason, it is merely a useless bureaucracy that hits the honest ones and does not fall upon the dishonest ones. It's just gonna be made by salesmen of those electronic accounting systems. So thank you for supporting the rejection of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u41	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. And before we go any further, Vice-President Tomio Okamura exercises priority rights. But before the table comes, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Karla Šlechtová from 10.30 for medical reasons and Minister Antonín Staněk from 10.30 to 13.00. Now, therefore, with priority rights in the detailed debate, Vice-President Okamura. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment number 2522. It lies in the fact that I propose that all businessmen, i.e. natural persons with a turnover of up to CZK 500 000 per year, and legal persons who are providers of health services covered by public health insurance, should be exempted from the EET. It's a medical practice. Otherwise, as I said, it is in connection with the fact that not only the motion to reject the EET was rejected here last year, but also the proposal that all traders with a turnover of up to CZK 1 million each year should be exempted from the EET. So we're trying to lower the line here, and we're trying to find room to relieve the businessmen in at least this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u43	I thank Mr Tomio Okamur for his proposal. We continue with the duly registered Mr Ivan Adamec and will prepare a colleague Vojtěch Munzar. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u44	Yes, thank you, Mr President, Mr Vice-President. Dear two members of the government. Two! Allow me to read here and apply to the amendments that I have announced in the general debate. The first proposal is led under House document number 2639 and it is the cancellation of the receipt lottery. I described the reasons here yesterday. I was expecting some reaction from the petitioner, it didn't. I think the reasons are pretty clear. It's immoral and inefficient, and I don't think it fits with modern society. The next amendment is under House document number 2638. It's to remove those tables that everyone has to put in that they're using the EET. I think it's useless, bureaucratic, and I'd say annoying, and it doesn't have any effect. I think if we want to reduce bureaucracy, this is really a minimum step towards reducing it. The next amendment is under House document number 2640 and it is a reduction in fines. Five hundred thousand crowns, in our opinion, are liquidated. We're proposing a sum of CZK 100,000. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u45	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I am proposing five amendments. I'll take it by the numbers she was assigned in the system. I already talked about them briefly yesterday, so I'm really going to be as brief as possible today. The first amendment, which is registered under number 2516, returns de facto the text of one fine relating to the control report before the adoption of the tax package. In the tax package, the following very vague wording was added to the VAT Act: "The tax administrator will impose a fine on the payer who, by failing to comply with the obligations relating to the inspection report, makes it seriously difficult or frustrates the administration of value added tax up to CZK 500 000." What the Ministry of Finance was really about, we can find in the explanatory memorandum just about the tax package. According to the Ministry of Finance - this is a quote - but in practice, there is often a situation where payers do not fill out data, state all the necessary, required data or provide estimated and not factual data in the control report, and wait for a call from the tax administrator to which they respond in time and complete and supplement the data. Thus they cannot be fined according to other paragraphs, yet this procedure is thwarted by the administration of taxes." So here in the tax package, ladies and gentlemen, we've approved a new fine that the Treasury and the Financial Administration can actually use on anyone who's trying to fulfill their obligations, wants to put in a check report within the deadline, and doesn't quite put everything there. It can be fined up to CZK 500,000 according to the new formulation. Before that, he had to have been proven wrong before, and he had to get a different fine. My proposal just leads us to get it back to normal, because it seems to me that 500,000 is very liquidation. And we all know how the Financial Administration has been treating some of its powers lately, such as hedge orders and the like. So that's draft number one under number 2516. [[10.50 hours]] Under number 2604 is an amendment that wants to change the current unequal position of the state and citizens, respectively. entrepreneurs. I'm talking about deadlines. For most of the operations, the state is supposed to be 30 days, but it leaves only five days for entrepreneurs to complete the inspection report on the basis of a call, in the event of a call from the Financial Authority. I propose that this deadline be increased from five to fifteen days, because, of course, the five days are very, very uncoordinated for those business entities, especially for those small ones who do not have such representativeness. They have an external accountant who's on vacation, they can be sick. Those five days are indeed a very short time, and indeed, with the best of will, they may not have to do so without wanting to circumvent their tax obligations. I therefore propose that this deadline be extended. I stress that no damage to the State will happen by extending the deadline. Only will it allow entrepreneurs sufficient time to correct any errors in the inspection report. Under number 2605, this also applies to value added tax and also to the control report. The aim of this amendment is either in variant A of cancellation or in variant B of reduction of the fine to the existing amount of CZK 1000 for the entrepreneur who, without being called upon to do so, will submit an additional inspection report. It may be that someone forgets it in the rush of their other responsibilities, and I think that such a thing should not be sanctioned, on the contrary, the state should be tolerant of such entrepreneurs who try to fulfill their responsibilities and find out for themselves and submit control reports themselves. That is why I propose a change in this fine. And the second reduction of the fine - from ten thousand to two and a half thousand, that is to a quarter, for those who submit control reports on the basis of a tax administrator's call. This means that they will ultimately do their duty, but the Financial Authority must challenge them. Under number 2608 is another amendment which already concerns the EET, and it is actually a similar proposal that my colleague Adamec is proposing. It's the cancellation of the information notice, the tables on the premises. It's the minimum we can do. And the last proposal, which also concerns EET, under No. 2609, which I'm signing up for. This amendment de facto cancels the start of the original third and fourth wave, the start for the new entrepreneurs. I have said the reasons here in the general debate, and I will not extend it further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u47	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. And now Mr Vlastimil Válek will take the floor, Mr Blaha will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I am signing up for my amendment, read under number 2621, which I justified here last night. I'm just going to put it very briefly. This is an amendment to make it easier, not to complicate the lives of patients who pay for various certificates and, above all, for vaccines that are not fully covered, and where they receive certificates from those practitioners, so that they can be reimbursed. If they only get confirmation from the EET, they will not be reimbursed and their life will be quite complicated. I would like to ask you to consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u49	I thank Mr Válek. Mr Stanislav Blaha will now prepare Mr Josef Kott. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I said yesterday in the general debate, I would like to apply to two amendments today. The first is registered under number 2642 and allows the registration of sales in a special scheme to all natural persons - VAT payers. The second is registered under number 643. This proposal simplifies the registration obligation under the simplified scheme, abolishes the obligation of the payer to keep copies of the receipts issued and regularly sends information on the receipts to the Financial Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u51	Thank you, Mr Blah. Now, Mr Josef Kott, a colleague of Mr Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is set out as House document 2629. It is a Christmas sale of carp and allows sellers to use the receipt form of sales records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u53	I thank Mr Josef Kotta. Now, Mr Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Madam Secretary, I have come to sign up for my amendment, which is House document 2645. It is a small amendment that returns or rather gives the system some degree of volunteering so that we do not all have to control ourselves. Most importantly, I do this because I really am concerned about the environment in which we are moving and in which our citizens are moving. That means we don't have to print bills that nobody wants to print. The receipts are made on a poisonous thermopaper, on bisphenol, it's just a endocrine destroyer. I think it's really inappropriate. When we make some bills, we should judge them in their complexity. It is not possible to solve in one law, to report to some defense of water and soil defense, and in another law then to fight into the environment such a quantity of unnecessary, completely unnecessary waste. Because nowadays, it's quite common that in the stall sale or elsewhere, there are those kilometers of receipts no one wants. It's a useless load, it's a useless need for an official, administrative, paper-made need. And I think it goes against the sense that we want to promote here, against the digital society that's supposed to get rid of the unnecessary paperwork. So it's another useless paper document that has to be created, even though almost nobody needs it. As I say, the right to ask for the receipt is there, so both the controllers and those who want to play the receipt lottery for prizes or what it is can continue to exchange their competing or requested receipts. Of course, there's that electronic record that's the essence of the law. This means that the registration of the sales continues to take place electronically there, but that in those cases where the electronic registration takes place, there is no obligation to issue a receipt. After all, the receipt can be issued electronically nowadays, only it requires you to have some contact with your consumer. This means to collect some personal data from your consumers again, which is complicated by other laws, so it is not generally suitable and usable way. So I suggest that where the customer doesn't want the receipt, he just doesn't have to get it. That's so much for my proposal. It's a really small thing. Instead of making the receipt compulsory, the words "on request" are added in two parts, in Section 29 and in Section 18. I'll see if I missed anything on the grounds. No, I said everything. It's a waste of paper, it's poisonous bisphenol, it's a period of paper. I don't think this is really the right way forward, and let's relieve our businessmen, let's relieve our environment, let's relieve the environment of our citizens and their immune systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u55	I thank Vice-President Pikal. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Skopeček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u56	Thank you. Hello. I am here yesterday in the general debate - that is, Mr President, Minister, fellow Members. I was here yesterday in the general debate already talking about some parameters of my amendments. So let me now, in a detailed debate, make it clear that I am signing up for them. I will just add one more thing that I think it is good that, for example, by adjusting VAT rates, we do not only aim to reduce expenditure for households and taxpayers in the Czech Republic, but, by doing so, we are able to monitor other positive effects that we can obtain, for example, on human health, on the environment, on the issue of making housing available. Even in this spirit, my amendments are designed. [[11.00 hours]] I therefore apply to Amendment 1973. It concerns the reduction of VAT on organic food to the second reduced rate, i.e. 10%. The biofood market is strictly monitored, it is certified, these biofoods are in that chain under that certificate under very strict supervision. And by this reduction, I would like us to be able to make biofood more accessible to citizens in the Czech Republic and also to support the positive effects of the management of organic farmers on our landscape, especially at a time when we are talking about pesticide burdens, water quality, soils and the like. Another amendment is Amendment 2652 and concerns also the reduction of VAT to the lowest reduced 10% rate. This applies to fuel wood in logs, logs, branches, taps or similar forms, wood chips or particles, sawdust, wood waste residues and whether or not agglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets or similar forms. So we are talking about fuel wood in briquettes and pellets used by citizens in the Czech Republic primarily to heat their households. With this proposal, I am responding not only to making this fuel available, but also to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u57	Ambassador, I understand. I will ask colleagues, colleagues, for peace, especially at the rapporteur's table, but also those who are preparing for the performance. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u58	Thank you. And I would also like to support the rather complex calamity of the wood market in order to promote greater use of wood and its various products on the market in the Czech Republic, thereby also reducing the burden of emissions from fossil fuels from inappropriate combustion in this form. Let me just remind you that in Germany, for example, the rate for these products is 7 %, France 10 %, Switzerland 8 %, Belgium 6 %. It is obvious that these countries are really trying to support this type of fuel from ecological and renewable sources as much as possible. So I'd like us to be able to support this, too. I also have the amendment to which I am referring, number 2653. It concerns fish sales. It is clear when we remove from the obligation to have EET fish sold at a separate point of sale. These all places are reported in advance to the State Veterinary Administration. If the tax authorities would like, they can simply find out in advance where fish will be sold and check their sales of the volume that is sold and can be sure that they are able to effectively monitor for possible tax evasion. The next proposal is draft number 2655 and it is a proposal setting the limit of CZK 750 000 for entities which, if they have these revenues for the 12 calendar months preceding and following, will be able to be excluded from EET records up to CZK 750 000. I have also submitted this proposal to the Economic and Budget Committee. However, I am aware that the support will not be far from having a chance for this proposal, which is why I allow myself to submit another new proposal that I did not present on the committees, and it is under number 2654, which sets the limit for removing entities from the EET obligation at the limit of CZK 200,000 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u59	Ambassador, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace. I hope that you can have debates that are not related to the EET in the foyer. These are amendments, so that we all know what we are going to vote on at third reading. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I am here based on the argument used by the Ministry of Finance itself when presenting this House press, when it argued part of the Constitutional Court's argument. And this Constitutional Court relied, among other things, on Austria's experience, where the smallest entrepreneurs in Austria are excluded from the fiscal treasury system there, and where there is a turnover limit of EUR 15,000 and even EUR 30,000 for boothmakers. That's why I went this way, when I adequately applied this principled argument. I drew these amounts and, with some rounding, I took the liberty of proposing this amount of CZK 200,000 for the removal of entrepreneurs from the EET. Then I took the liberty of making a few more amendments concerning the VAT issue again, namely to increase the limit for the obligation to be a VAT payer in two alternative proposals. The first one is for CZK 1.5 million and the second one is for CZK 2 million. It is Amendment 2656 and Amendment 2657. And I have here the latest proposals relating to VAT, namely proposal 2660, which is a proposal to reduce VAT in the case of construction, repairs, reconstruction of so-called social housing, which is, for example, flats up to 120 square meters, which means that this category includes the vast majority of apartments in which citizens live in the Czech Republic, and I propose a reduction to the second reduced rate, i.e. 10 per cent. This means that it is a response to the difficult situation of affordable housing in order to reduce these costs for people. So that's this proposal. And then I have a second suggestion... I merely point out that for this proposal, the effectiveness is postponed until 1 January 2021, so that the Ministry of Finance, if appropriate, can negotiate a derogation or a regulation of European legislation. I come up with the Minister's argument that this is a problem because of harmonised law, which is why I am creating some room for negotiation here. And then here I have proposal 2662, which reduces the VAT rate to new flats, which is 21 per cent today, and reduces it to 15 per cent, so that, in turn, we can reduce housing costs for young families in particular. Just to imagine, when we talk about the sum of CZK 5 million when we buy an apartment, we could save this young family roughly some hundreds of thousands - 300, 400,000 crowns, which do not have to be repaid under a mortgage. I would like us to really look at this proposal through the optics of the difficult housing situation, the difficult situation in the real estate market, and try not to burden citizens in the Czech Republic unnecessarily by paying such high VAT on new apartments. The last proposal is 2663, which is relatively simple and says that entities in the third and fourth waves will thus be removed from the EET system. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u61	I thank Mr Jurečka for the amendments. And before I give the floor to the last one entered in the detailed debate, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Between 14.30 and the end of the day, Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes for the foreign conference, i.e. for working reasons. Now a colleague of Mr. Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u62	Thank you very much. I want to sign up for two amendments. The first is inserted into the system under number 2658. This is an exception to the EET obligation for the seller of freshwater fish and related services between 14 and 24 December at the establishment where only these sales take place, in simple terms it is an attempt to exclude from the obligation to register sales using the electronic cash register of the seller of Christmas carp. I think everyone will understand that in the winter season when these people sell carp on the street, kill them there, gut them, so it's not entirely reasonable to ask them to tap into the electronic cash register at the same time. The second amendment is inserted into the system under number 2648 and it is an amendment that repeals the mandatory registration of EETs for individuals - VAT payers, of course, with the motive to avoid this, in particular, those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to whom this regulation and unnecessary administration are most likely to fall. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u63	Thank you, Mr. Skopečka. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate, the last one registered in writing. [[Voices coming from the diaper from the right side.]] Please don't shout in the O.R. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. Once again, a colleague of Marian Jurečka is registered, then a member of Ferjenčík and chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I, if you don't mind, came forward once more for a detailed debate, because in my introduction, I was wrong to say the number I applied for. It wasn't 1973, but I'm correcting, I applied to Amendment 1473, which was about reducing VAT to organic food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u65	I thank Mr Jurečka. Now, then, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry for shouting, I'm afraid you don't know the day or the hour. I wanted to sign up for the amendment under House document number 2675. I, together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek, adopted the proposal of my colleague Juříček and Onderka. This is a proposal which unfortunately did not go by one single vote in the Committee on Budgets, namely the vote of Mr Juříček, who presented the proposal. I believe it was some mistake, so I took the liberty of reading it together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek - I do not know if it was correctly uploaded into the system, because Mr. Juříček and Mr. Onderka had downloaded it, so I had to record it again. So the point is that the government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, is amended as follows: In the newly inserted section 11a para. Article 1 (1) (a) shall be deleted; the original points (b) and (c) are newly referred to as (a) and (b). What's going on? The point is that the record of sales under the special scheme is also possible for VAT payers. The reason is simple. There may be entrepreneurs who are VAT payers who have a large turnover, but for some reason they issue some limited amount of paper receipts. And for these entrepreneurs, it would be very practical for them to function in parallel in the VAT system electronically, fall under the control report and at the same time from time to time to issue one two receipts. Typical examples - such as large farms that sell potatoes, supply them to self-service shops, but from time to time one comes to the store to buy one bag of potatoes and pays in cash so that they have the opportunity to give him a receipt and do not have to change all their information systems. We're afraid that a number of businesses of this type wouldn't even implement an EET, and instead they would simply cancel the service that can be useful to people, that they can just buy directly, like, potatoes. I will therefore read the justification, which I am not the author of, by colleagues Juříček and Onderka: There is no reason why the VAT payer should be excluded from the special scheme only because he is a VAT payer, no matter what proportion of his sales are cash payments. In practice, there can be and will certainly be situations where the income of VAT payers in cash will account for only a small fraction of its income, and such a taxpayer would have to take senselessly everything that is associated with the EET. Most taxpayers - VAT payers certainly have their income in cash-free form recorded thoroughly and by inspection reports and would be in a disadvantageous position compared to those who are not VAT payers, e.g. in a situation where their cash income accounts for only a very negligible amount, e.g. several hundred or a thousand crowns a year. I stress, I did not write this statement, it was written by government MPs Juříček and Onderka. I hereby adopt, together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek, their amendment, it is House document 2675 and I hereby subscribe to it. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u67	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. With a factual remark, Mr Roman Onderka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, short responses to my colleague Ferjenčík. He is certainly right that this amendment has been tabled. He could already understand from the vote itself that there was a change. This means that we have communicated this proposal with our colleague Juříček with the Minister of Finance, we have dealt with this issue, and ultimately outweighed its arguments. From this point of view, it has just come to the conclusion that Mr Juříček has voted on the Committee on Budgets as he has voted, and this proposal has not been approved by the Committee on Budgets. On the other hand, the proposal that we made, in the sense of increasing the amount to the special regime, means from 200 thousand to 600,000, this was approved unanimously by the Committee on Budgets, if I remember correctly, with the support of the Ministry of Finance. I am committed to this amendment and thank the Minister for being kind and thank you for a very constructive debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual remark from Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u70	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I am also aware that the YES movement probably no longer supports this proposal, but you, through Mr Onderka, voted in favour of the amendment. So I still hope that the Social Democracy Club will support him, and so, together with the opposition, a majority will be found for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u71	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr. Onderka, one more point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u72	Through Mr President to my colleague Ferjenčík. Colleague, again, patato. They will not support the Social Democracy Club, I will not support it, because we have dealt with this issue with the Minister. I hope you understand now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And I'm registering the last application from here to a detailed debate, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In this way, I have three amendments which I have to formally sign up to and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are also duly justified. The first amendment is set out in House document 2651, I called it the annual periodicity of notifications by entrepreneurs registered under a special regime. Here I propose that it be once a year and not more often, as proposed in the government bill. The detailed reasoning is part of this document, which I officially sign up for. The second amendment is registered in the system under number 2650 and it is a proposal to abolish the EET as a whole. I think we've justified this enough at first and second reading. The reasons that lead us to this proposal, to our conviction that the EET Act would be best abolished as a whole, then there would be no exceptions and we would approach everyone equally regardless of the field of activity or the size of business. And the third amendment, which I officially sign up for, is conducted in a system under House document 2646, which I called the elimination of NACE activities. I briefly talked about him yesterday, and I'm going to do it for a while today. First of all, a formal point of view. The amendment, as I said yesterday, suggests gradually voting on all branches of activity according to the NACE code list. All these amendments are supplemented by the letter K. If any of them go through - I firmly believe they do - then of course the others are outnumbered, it's not gonna be K anymore, but it's gonna be L if they go through two, then it's gonna be M, N and so on. I think it's legislatively absolutely, completely clear. I promised yesterday that I would not read to you all and that, after all, I quote some of the fields of activities to be burdened by EET. I was quite helpful. Look, the color tags aren't too many, and they won't let me - [[shows the material in which some pages are marked with coloured labels]] I want to draw particular attention to them when we vote on them. We propose to exclude from the effectiveness of the EET in the NACE classification under code 94.90.1 the activities of organisations of children and youth. Do we really think that when someone organizes activities for children and young people, that they commit tax fraud, and that if someone pays a member's contribution in cash in a club, one of the parents must have an EET recipient? We don't think so. [[11.20 hours]] Another story, and it concerns all of us. I do not know, perhaps in some of the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, membership is paid only without cash, I do not know that. In our country, civil democrats, members can choose whether to pay cash-free, i.e. by order directly on behalf of the political party, or whether to pay cash to the cashier in his local association. In particular, our older members use the opportunity to pay in cash, because in addition to paying, they also stop at the office, discuss the political situation in place, on the edge, in the House. Therefore, we propose that we remove from the EET activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 94.92 from the activities of political parties and organisations. Do you really want each of your county or local cashiers to receive cash payments of membership contributions so that they have an EET? Do you really believe that any political party does not register its membership contributions? And that tax evasion is happening? Moreover, this is not a business activity. It's not business. Business activity, political parties can do it legally, but certainly not in the selection of membership contributions e.g. cash payment. For colleagues from the left, especially from the left, but also for us from the right, because we respect this as an integral part of the social space, public space, we propose to exclude EET from the activities listed in the NACE classification under code 94.20 of the trade union activities. They believe, for example, that Social Democrats who are part of the government coalition, that it is necessary to burden the activities of the EET trade unions? That there are tax evasions? We don't think so. We believe that the union unions are doing exactly their tax duties, and we haven't thought for a second about it. However, thanks to this proposal, NACE 94.20 shows that the government coalition has doubts as to whether trade union activities are taking place. [[The Minister of Finance's response from the rapporteur's desk.]] It is not subject to law, but it is part of the government's proposal to be subject to it. [[The Minister is responding again.]] No, but Madam Secretary, you have it listed, NACE number 94.20 is listed. That means, in one law the Minister also says that it is not subject, I agree with that, but in another paragraph he says that it is subject. Who's gonna decide? The same applies to trade unions - the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry. And all EET supporters quite rightly point to themselves and say: We will also use EET in our activities. And last, and this is more of a question for the Minister, the last example, and this is the activity of gambling, casinos and betting offices. I'm not questioning that. I would like to ask, perhaps some other time, what about the register of players that we have so solemnly approved with the support of us as opposition as a good step. Then I've been hearing for months and months that there's a problem with implementation so there's a register of players, and that doesn't work yet. That's a few... Madam Secretary says he's been working on it, but the Treasury has been working on it for years. The law was passed sometime in 2016 or 2017, we are in 2019. This cannot be judged entirely as an urgent or diligent activity. These are just a few examples, absurd examples from the EET. And to comply with all the rules, I officially apply to House document number 2046 with the warning that the letter K would then be renumbered alphabetically; depending on how the amendments go, then the individual letters will be included and changed into the bill that we will vote on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u75	I thank Mr Zbyněk Stanjur for his speech in a detailed debate. I have no other application for a detailed debate. My colleague Ferjenčík once more. Please, Mr. Ambassador, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I propose that this bill be returned to the Guarantee Committee, because my colleague Stanjura's proposal is really very complex, I think it will take more than 14 days to go through it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-002-004.u77	Okay. So you propose a procedure under § 94 para. 3 this time in a detailed debate. We'll let you vote on it, too. I'm gonna go on to summon the colleagues I've asked to move their debates into the lobby, I'm gonna sign you out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And when the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting number forty-one, in which we will decide on this procedural proposal. Thank you. I repeat that, on the proposal of my colleague, Ferjenčík, who has fallen after a detailed debate, we will vote on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, following a detailed debate under Section 94 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on Rules of Procedure. I've started voting number 41 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 41, from 157 in favour of 73, against 82, was rejected. I have no other proposals for voting. The motion to reject the bill shall be put to the vote at the beginning of the third reading. So the motion to shorten the deadline was not filed. Nor has the proposal not to deal with the guarantee committee been filed. So I can end the second reading of item number 4, the government bill on the EET. Thank you, Minister of Finance, thank you, rapporteur, and I am ending this point. The next item is the item number
