ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u1	42. Proposal for the election of members of the Council of the Czech Press Office Here we are also in the situation that we dealt with this point on Wednesday, June 5, the first round of the secret election took place. And I would now ask the President of the Election Commission to repeat the candidates who are moving on to the second round.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u2	As has been said, we select two members to the Czech Press Office after the end of the mandate of Jakub Heikenwälder and Miroslav Augustin. In the first round of this election on June 5, no one was elected and advanced to the second round because they are two members, so four candidates advanced: Tomáš Mrázek designed by ODS, Michal Semín designed by SPD, David Soukup designed by ANO movement and Josef Šlerka designed jointly by KDU-ČSL and Pirates. If elected members are elected, their five-year term of office shall begin on the day of the election. The debate on this point is closed, but we now have information here that there is an interest in the debate. That, Mr President, should be decided by a possible vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u3	I'm afraid that's not possible. However, I can give the floor to those who have priority rights. Mr Radim Fiala and Vice-Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal are registered with priority rights. So I think it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. After all, let me return to the debate on candidates for the Czech Press Office, because, as you know, some names have been scandalized in recent days. I don't think people knew exactly whose names they were scandalizing and what those people in the past and the present meant and what they meant. Therefore, allow me once again, where we have prepared ourselves properly to defend our candidate Michal Semín, who, I think, after what he has surely experienced from various political activists, deserves this satisfaction, even though I am aware that it will not be heard by as many people as when it was live on Czech television and so on. But I think from our side, it is an honor for me to defend such a person, and this defense is an absolute human necessity and duty for me. [[12.40 hours]] I mean, we reject the hysteria that has unleashed around our nominee in the Council of the Czech News Agency, Michal Semín, when social democracy threatens that if the members of the ANO movement support him, the government will fall. Absolutely pointless are accusations accusing Michal Semín of anti-Semitism. Who, then, is Michal Semín? Master Semín graduated from the Faculty of Education of Charles University, field of Czech language - pedagogy. In the late 1980s, he was involved in the movement For civil freedom and founded the student section of the Democratic Initiative, for which he was 13. 11. 1989 excluded from studies. Michal Semín led the strike committee at the Faculty of Education of Charles University and participated in the reform of the faculty in 1990 and 1991. In 1991 he founded the Civil Institute and became its director, headed by the Institute until 2003. Michal Semín stood at the birth of home education in the Czech Republic and founded the Society of Friends of the Home School in 1997. He taught two years of philosophy at the First Restored Real Grammar School in Prague-Libni, since 2005 he has been director of the internationally active Institute of St.Joseph, co-founder of Conservative Action D.O.S.T. and was its chairman in 2011 and 2014. He's engaged in it today as Vice-President. Since 2017, he has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Má vlastní Fund. Michal Semín has been married since 1993. He has nine children with one woman. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] It is humanely focused, engaged in politics, social ethics, philosophy, the media. [[There's a growing noise in the hall.]] He lectured on these topics not only in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but also in the United States, Great Britain, Ireland, Poland, Italy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can hear the President's argument. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u6	Thank you. I would like this argument not to fall apart and it is not just the one from Wenceslas Square that remains. As for the accusation of Michal Semín of anti-Semitism, I would like to remind you that he was supported by Czech Jewish publicist Benjamin Kuras in his candidacy for the ČTK Council. For a position in the Czech News Agency, Semín is an extremely qualified and morally strong personality, he told about Semín Kuras. As for the charge of anti-Semitism, I will read here the statement by Michal Semín: Anti-Semitism is disgusting to me and I have a number of Jewish friends here and abroad. The claim that I'm an anti-Semitic is a lie and a slander. I'd even say it's an attempt to criminalize the opinion opposition. Anti-Semitism disgusts me, I don't distinguish people by race, but by character. I exclusively shape my relationship with others on the basis of their opinions and deeds, never according to their belonging to race or ethnicity. Members Richterová, Kupka and Stanjura wanted to give the impression that I was prejudiced by people of Jewish origin. It's nonsense, of course. My Jewish friends can testify to this not only at home but also abroad. They would perhaps add their signature to the protest note of the D.O.S.T. Action. addressed to the United States Embassy for its promotional and financial support Prague Pride major American conservative rabbis if I thought as the then president of the D.O.S.T. Action. Anti-Jewish? Of course not. I also never claimed that Israel had orchestrated the 11 September 2001 assassinations, as it tried to disinterpret my earlier interview for Parliamentary Leaves by Member Stanjura. Do opposers of my nationally conservative attitudes really have to help themselves with such fouls? I was a direct actor not only of November's events, but of my own preparation of the student protest. I was involved in the Civil Liberties Movement and founded the student section of the Democratic Initiative. For these activities, I have been interrogated many times, arrested briefly, and expelled from my studies. When the aesthetics accused me of disrupting socialism, I couldn't even say ashes. When comrade Kupka, ODS, calls me anti-semitic on Czech television, I almost remember those ancient comrades with tears in my eye, for they were at least right in assessing my attitudes and motives. The media lynch, to which I am exposed in the Kavčí Mountains and in other media, cannot be faced except with insight, testimony of truth and contempt for modern-day cadres. Although there is nothing anti-Semitic in any of my articles, I fundamentally judge my neighbors by deeds, never according to ethnicity, and in my comments I clearly illustrate this. Many journalists and politicians spread this ugly rumor further and in public events, while comments for three warm evenings continue to depict my face, so as to be clear who after Ladislav Jakl today she may smack a somewhat blurry truth into. I may not even have to say that during the entire campaign based on quotations taken out of context or total nonsense, no one from the kavčí Mountains called me to invite me and I could defend myself against my opponents. I don't blame them. Their house would fall apart immediately. Just don't let people know that what we're telling the world about Semín is largely on the water. I understand that left-wing liberal media and various pressure organizations do not want a more self-important public post held by a man who is going against the current, even though it is causing him various existential difficulties. A person of conservative views on society, morality or family, resisting the coming totalitarianism of political correctness and social engineering, other Brussels centralization, the reduction of civil liberties and the devastating effects of gender ideology or artificial multiculturalism. A man who claims that frost is not from the Kremlin today, but from advanced centers in the West. I am also expressing my criticism of Semín's opinion intolerance. In fact, since the 1990s, I have been in a pluralistic environment, and I have always enjoyed arguing with people of different opinion. I think it is in the Czech Republic and other public institutions that the multi-voice should be represented, because what we are facing today and what I consider to be a real danger to the future development of our country is that more and more one voice, one opinion, is being applied in the public space. The others, uncomfortable, are pushed to the edge or are dehonested differently. In my opinion, we should avoid witch hunts, otherwise we will behave just like the communists who expelled Michal Semín from the studio because of his resistance to the pre-November regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u7	Thank you. I just want everyone to be correctly aware of the state of the negotiations, so I note that we are not in the debate at the moment, the debate has been closed. We have two applications with priority rights, Vice-President Pikal, President Michálek, but it is, of course, possible to open the debate by a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies if anyone proposes it. I further note that we can continue after 13 o'clock until we deal with the polls, but at the same time, the House has determined by its resolution that we will continue with the fixed points at 14.30 o'clock. That is the situation now. The Vice-President of the House of Pikal is next. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor, thank you for clarifying the situation. I will use my preferential right only to a brief remark, or I have been asked by some colleagues to present here the opinion of the Federation of Jewish Communities in the Czech Republic on the election to the Council of the Czech Press Office from 12. 6. 2019. The Federation of Jewish Communities in the Czech Republic follows with concern the efforts of some political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to elect Mr Michal Semín's Czech Press Office to the Council. One who interprets, among other things, the prayer for peace, which was attended by Israeli President Šimon Peres, the Palestinian representative of Mahmúd Abbás and the Patriarch Bartholomew of Bartoloměj, as a recognition of the religious value of false cults incompatible with the teachings of the traditional Church and the tradition of the Church, and Judaism, in his view, lies in the stubborn rejection of the true messiah, is not, in our opinion, an appropriate candidate for the advice of the main press agency of the Czech Republic. Anti-Judaism has been the cause of Žid persecution for centuries and has become an important part of the anti-Semitism of prewar, as well as in the Shoah period. We are addressing Members of Parliament. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic hopes that these facts will be taken into account when choosing the members of the Czech Press Office Council. The Czech News Agency should bring reliable and verified facts and supervision of its activities should not be entrusted to people with a fundamentalist and confrontational vision of the world. So many opinions that I think clarify some questions about anti-Judaism or anti-Semitism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u9	Thank you. Chairman Michálek has withdrawn his application. The President of Stanjura has been given priority rights. I have here an application for a factual remark, I cannot give a word because we are not in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u10	I would only react briefly to the speech of the Member, President of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. Both Martin Kupka and I quoted. We didn't interpret or interpret Mrs. Semín's performance. And I'll read it one more time, and each of us can judge how those sentences sound. And it's really a quote. "The official interpretation of the events of 9/11 is a myth, in something even less credible than the conspiracy theories mentioned by you. Of all possible scenarios, it seems to me to be most likely the one who allows the share of a part of the power structures within the American elite to prepare and execute attacks. If the Saudi Arabia regime was involved, I don't know. Israel, for example, has certainly benefited more from the situation and subsequent invasions." And now I think it's a very important sentence. "In fact, one of the motives of US neo-conservative foreign policy, also due to their majority ethnic composition, is not primarily the benefit of the United States but Israel." So many quotes. So aside from the insults about the comrades. If Mr Semín wants to hold a debate, he should explain to us eventually, we could explain what he meant. He's talking about the ethnic composition of American neo-conservatives. He's talking about the benefit of the attack on the 11th had to the State of Israel. He talks about the fact that part of the United States' power elite was involved in the preparation and implementation of attacks - as the most likely scenario for me to be correct. So please, if we quote, then let's criticize the quoted statement and not something else. And all we have said here, because we consider ourselves a friend of the State of Israel, many of us, have drawn attention to statements that I believe are against the State of Israel. And if many of us consider him an ally, we considered it necessary before choosing to introduce you to him. That's all. Nothing more, nothing less. I'm sure Mr. Semín's biography is interesting. It's not just negative stuff. I didn't say that, I'm not saying that, I was just quoting. And since Martin Kupka couldn't get off, I quoted from the tape screen what he was quoting from the interview. So I would ask that, if someone is arguing with their statements, they do not attack those quoting them and, if necessary, explain them or take them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u11	With priority rights - it is not possible to make a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u12	Just a brief response to the President of the ODS Stanjuru. I understand. When we read three or four sentences here, even if we quote them, but I think it was much fairer whether Czech television or other media had spent a month inviting him to the debate, for example. Mr. President Stanjura, so that these things in front of the audience can be totally publicly cleared up, and they can talk about it. And then there doesn't have to be these verbal confrontations between us. I think that would be a fair thing to do. But by not being invited by the public media, it's like one of you is running for a position, but they just didn't invite you to tell people what you really want, what you've been doing in your life, he's responsible for his actions. That's just not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-007-042.u13	Thank you. I will ask the President of the Election Commission whether he still considers it necessary to vote on a secret vote when we have already voted on it. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] It's round two, so we don't have to vote. So I can stop discussing this point to make the choice. Thank you. The next point we're going to be dealing with is
