ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u1	9. Government draft law on the territorial administrative breakdown of the State and on the amendment of related laws (State territorial administrative breakdown law) /German press 395/ - Second reading On behalf of the government, the proposal was made by Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, but I received a letter from the Prime Minister instructing the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch to justify this press today. I will ask him to take a seat at the rapporteur's table, and I will also ask my colleague, Mr Baxa, to take his seat as rapporteur at the rapporteur's table. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee, and the committee resolution was delivered to you as House prints 395/1 to 3. I therefore ask that Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch take up his opening word for second reading under the authority of the Prime Minister. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the Government's draft law on the territorial administrative breakdown of the state in the second reading. The main purpose of this law is to update the legislation on the structure of the State's territorial administrative breakdown and to replace the existing, obsolete law on the State's breakdown from 1960. The basis of the proposed adjustment is the breakdown of the territory of the Czech Republic into the region and the capital city of Prague within the meaning of the Constitutional Act on the creation of higher local authorities. In this context, it is proposed to abolish the old regions. These large regions, which are seven and which differ from 13 self-governing regions, are currently no longer used for the performance of public administration. [[17,00 hours]] According to the new legislation, districts of individual regions will be divided into administrative districts of municipalities with extended scope. The administrative districts of the municipalities with extended scope will then be defined by a list of municipalities and military retreats. The definition of districts is carried out in a new legal arrangement by deriving from the administrative districts of municipalities with extended scope. For the capital city of Prague, a special division is maintained on ten districts at the district level. The proposed solution was consulted with the municipalities concerned and with the competent authorities of the state administration. The new legislation will not affect, for example, the courts and prosecutors, which have their districts defined by a special law. Finally, I would like to add information on the solution to the specific situation in the Turnov region. For this purpose, the Ministry of the Interior has dealt intensively with all the entities concerned and agreement has been reached on the amendment of the text of the draft law. This regulation should allow the current situation in Turnov region to be maintained in the form of a functioning administrative district of the municipality with extended scope and at the same time not to change the jurisdiction of individual municipalities into districts. The amendment to the amendments described in the resolution adopted the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. As the petitioner, I can express my agreement on this amendment as well as on the motion for an accompanying resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, also adopted by that committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. We have received the Committee's resolution as House prints 395/1 to 3. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Martin Baxa, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u4	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. My information will be very brief. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development addressed this draft law at its meeting on 16 May this year at its 22nd meeting, and, as the Minister has already informed, the Committee has recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt this Act, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Tomáš Martínek, who is general, but which is aimed precisely at fulfilling what has already been said here, that is to say, an adjustment to the conditions in Turnov and Semiland, and, at the same time, adopted recommendations on the adoption of the accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which are called upon by the Government and the Ministry of the Interior to issue a decree that would accept this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Dominik Feri is the first member of the debate, Mr Martínek will be prepared. Before the Member arrives, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for personal reasons today from 17 to 19 o'clock. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is duly excused, that is to say, not to him, but to someone from the Ministry of the Interior who is watching this transmission. When discussing this proposal in the first reading, it was on 13 March, I asked the Minister to build a matter which concerns the exercise of several - four ORPs outside his administrative district, namely Černošice, Nýřany, Brandýs nad Labem and Šlapanice. Of course, he promised me that he would answer me in writing, but to this day, I didn't get the answer. It is quite important, however, because the obligation for the ORP is actually adapted from the obligation of mandatory to the optional possibility of setting up an office in Prague, Brno or Pilsen. And I would like to see some more detailed details about how they dealt with the municipalities and what specific communities intend to do about it. That means, I'd like the Minister or someone relevant, some reporter to provide me with this information before the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u7	Thank you. Another one entered in the debate and so far the last one is Mr Tomáš Martínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly that there has been an agreement and consensus between the Ministry of Finance as well as representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and representatives of the various authorities on the proposed amendment, which the Members of the Liberec Region have tabled with me, and I am also glad that the amendment has been approved by the Guarantee Committee. I am also glad that an accompanying resolution has been adopted, which should ensure, together with this amendment, that the people of Turnov, or the ORP Turnov, who are not part of the Semily district, can continue to be part of this ORP, where they are used to commute, is the best option for them to commute and will want to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-006-009.u9	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. There is no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? No one is going into the detailed debate either, so I am also ending the detailed debate. Even in this case, I am asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. There was no proposal that we should now vote on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Now, let's look at the point.
