ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u1	196. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 /German press 605/ - 3rd reading At this point, to inform you about the situation, I have several applications with priority rights after opening the point. First three. The 12th at 8.00 was signed in by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, then took 3. At 10:45 p.m., President Ivan Bartoš volunteered, then Minister Schillerová came forward on 12.15, and now Vice-President Tomio Okamura volunteered at 9:43 p.m. After a brief consultation - if the Minister, who is currently in the Senate and presents the so-called tax package, would not yet be present, Mr Tomio Okamura will speak first, only then the Minister will speak. At this point, I have another priority right: President Vít Rakušan and President Pekarová Adamová. Of course, I must respect Section 67, so that they will all be given the floor, only then would I give the floor to the rapporteur, who will guide us through the amendments. So right now, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor. I will then ask the President to take his place at the rapporteur's table, because until the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance is present, he will also represent the government as a petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Thank you for the opportunity to get off here. I'm criticized that I'm not doing enough, so today I'm gonna try to catch up. I'd start with what happened yesterday. Yesterday, the media fed the citizens with disinformation that the Czech Republic would return money due to a conflict of interests of Babiš. Again, I would repeat that this is not true, that the Czech Republic will not refund money, because there is no reason for that. All day, the media has been chasing back how much it's supposed to be. Nothing's supposed to come back. Word that it's the final position. Yes. There's an audit, an audit report. By the way, it was already announced by the well-known server, which is probably connected online to the European Commission, that they already knew on Wednesday, and it came on Friday. The spicy point is that it was actually delivered as the last act of this Commission, which ended on Saturday, and on Sunday 1. 12. a new Commission has joined. And it's not the komise. It's an audit authority. The audit authority which carried out the audit at the various ministries. And already the preliminary audit, the position of the Czech Republic was fundamentally rejecting. So all day long, some of the selected media have been trying to tell people that something's coming back. And when Mr Faltýnek was on TV tonight and he just wanted to remind me that he was finally coming back with traditional democratic parties for corruption and manipulation of European money 36,4 billion, the editor was jumping into his speech. He didn't want to hear it. When I texted Czech Television, they didn't read the whole text in the evening events, just the first sentence, because they didn't want to hear what we wanted to say. So, first of all, it's not true that the money's coming back. There's no reason for that. I find it absurd that European auditors interpret Czech law, instruct us how to interpret it. I'd go back to the whole genesis of the conflict of interest. I became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance on 29 January 2014. I left the company's organs. And nothing happened. [[10.00 hours]] In 2015, the Czech Government submitted a draft law on conflict of interest and this law mainly because somebody minded that the preference of the ANO movement was high, and it was necessary to stop them and, above all, to get Babiš out of politics, it was changed to Lex Babiš. It was the cooperation of TOP 09 and ČSSD, which tabled those amendments, and 26. 9. 2016 The Chamber of Deputies passed an approved Senate law and subsequently it was passed to the President of the Republic, he returned it to the House and on 11 January 2017 it was re-voted and the full effectiveness of Lex Babiš occurred 1. 9. 2017. And 9. 2. 2017 was partially effective. And I followed the law. I put my former firm into trust funds, I set up trust funds 1. 2. 2017 and 3. 2. 2017 I put shares in trust funds. So, of course, it's Lex Babiš, it's the law against Babiš, it's the law to eliminate Babiš so he won't be in politics because he does. Because no one can corrupt Babiš. Babiš doesn't have any collectors. And that doesn't matter. And of course, because this law, I'm convinced, is unconstitutional. I'm not a lawyer, but lawyers who understand it say it's unconstitutional, it's against European law. And the President of the Republic filed a complaint of 15. 2. 2017 and also members of the ANO movement filed a complaint against the Constitutional Court on 8 March 2017. And in February it will be three years and the Constitutional Court has not decided. Interesting, he decided at church restitutions in six months. So let's hope he decides, and if I'm listening to lawyers' opinions, he should decide that the law is unconstitutional. In any case, I believe that the auditors of the European Commission should not interpret the Czech law. That it should be Czech courts and Czech justice and not Brusel. The spicy thing about it is that the media says, "It's all coming back!" It's interesting that even yesterday, when Mr. Faltýnek was on Czech TV and he wanted to talk to the editor again. Here is the headline: "The European Commission has fined the Czech Republic 22 million. Faltynek seemed to have been in conflict of interest." [[It shows the printed messages.]] And it didn't. And no one even said that... Sorry, we said something that wasn't true. Then there was a headline that wouldn't pay. It is also spicy that the person behind the audit, the former Deputy Minister of Finance, at that time the Pirát, who was actually at the Ministry of Finance to fight for the European Union and protect its interests, and protected it so well that he protected them against Czech interests, and four years ago the Deputy Minister, in January 2015, said that there was suspicion of bribery and a cartel agreement, and he turned the Czech Republic into Brussels. That was the dispute with Mrs. Šlechtová, when it was claimed that there was a crime and that there was some kind of fraud. Everything was examined and nothing happened. And here's the headline: "The Cartel, which was not, cost the Czech Republic almost a billion." The Czech Republic lost 800 million thanks to this gentleman, irretrievably. [[It shows the printed messages.]] But, of course, that doesn't suit some of the media. And journalists don't even ask how it was. Today, this gentleman acts as the greatest expert and talks about something coming back. But the fact that he caused damage to the Czech Republic 820 million, there is no mention of it. So I would just like to say that if the opposition is calling on the government to publish something, please, we have nothing to publish. It is a matter of audit authorities, and I will be very happy to have Mr Hřib make it public. Pirates, I don't know if Mr. Hřib went to Brussels to do anything else to make it public, so I'll look forward to it, you can make it public! I have absolutely no problem with that. What I have a problem with is that he's lying, that something's coming back and that it's final. And it's not true. Because what has come, where the auditor actually calls on the Czech Republic to inform whether it will accept or not accept the conclusions of the audit. So he'll accept or he won't. So it's clear that it's a final audit of auditors, but it's not a final decision. And it's not true that something's coming back! And that the Czech Republic is to report on the implementation of the recommendation within 60 calendar days of the submission of the national language version of this final audit report. Well, I'd like all the media not to really say something's coming back. It was returned thanks to traditional democratic parties, 36.8 billion irretrievably gone, which was paid by taxpayers. And thanks to the gentleman behind it and who has a clear opinion everywhere, we've returned more than 800 million. And that's a fact! So I'm convinced that I have no conflict of interest, and logically I can't, because there was a law against Babiš, and I followed the law. Again, European auditors are not in the position to interpret Czech laws. The Czech Republic is a sovereign state and it is not possible for Czech justice to interpret our laws instead. So I wanted to comment on that because an extraordinary meeting was called, or a point, to an alleged conflict of interest. And I don't even have a reason to be involved, because it just doesn't concern me. And I assume that Minister Dostálová, who is also not the one who decides on the position of the Czech Republic, but they are officials, they are audit authorities, independent officials who will comment on this. Very interesting was that there were different amounts all day. But of course, once they said half a billion, they all say it again. And I'm curious myself - the amount has been going down all day, so let's see what happens. In any case, we're just at the beginning of a trial. [[10.10 hours]] Today we have to decide on the most important law, every year the most important law on the state budget, and hopefully that all day, citizens in the media will also learn something about what our government is doing for them, and it will not end again, as it is customary, I will grab a hnízdo. Yes, that's where it starts. You guys left here to steal thousands of billions, break up the whole economy, burn out banks, funds, companies -- and in 30 years, the biggest problem is Capi's nest, where by the way the Czech Republic got the subsidy, and the company that was entitled to it returned it. Well, if that's the case, I don't think citizens are stupid. The draft state budget for 2020 creates the prerequisites for implementing appropriate policies that will contribute to increasing productivity and shift the potential of our economy, whether by investing in infrastructure or in education, science, research or innovation. The draft budget is pro-growth, clearly increasing the standard of living not only for seniors but also for families caring for young children. This proposal is based on the macroeconomic scenario and the forecast of revenue that was in line with the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility, assessed by the independent Committee on Budget Forecasts, which on 29 August 2019 found the two forecasts to be realistic for 2019 and 2020. Despite the relatively diverse views of the members, which were justified by significant risks in the external environment, the majority of the members present agreed that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are consistent internally and correspond to their expectations in key parameters. I would like to stress that, although the economy, especially the world economy, is cooling off, our government will never strangle the economy the way the right-wing government did in the past crisis, when it took money from people, pensioners, employees, and deepened the crisis. Our approach will be the opposite. If it gets worse, it'll cost more to pump money into people, into salaries, into pensions, into the economy, and into investment. Since 2017, the fiscal policy plan and implementation have been restricted by the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. In their framework, fiscal policies of the following years can be characterised as neutral to slightly expansionary, which is fully in line with the reality of slowing down economic growth. The management of the general government sector should end in 2019 with a surplus of 0,3 % of GDP and we expect a surplus of 0.1% of GDP for 2020 that reflects the fulfilment of the government's programme priorities. The point is, we have some of the best public budgets in Europe. We really have something to brag about. And the growth expected is almost three times higher than the average growth in the euro area. That is why we also say that - at least in this government - we certainly do not want to go to the eurozone. First, the eurozone needs to reform, resolve its problems, and we will see if they succeed. We expect another decline in government debt. [[Noise in the hall.]] When I joined as Minister of Finance, the government debt was 44,9 percent. [[He's showing the materials.]] And here you can see on this graph that it's gradually dropping from 44,9 percent to 30.6 predictions 2020. [[He's pointing.]] And again, we have the surplus sector of government. As far as state debt is concerned, it's similar there. When I joined office, and our coalition government, 2014, the government debt was 41.1 %, and we are already below 30% of GDP today and it is expected that next year it will fall. So we have one of Europe's least-indebted economies. In front of us are Luxembourg, Estonia, small economies. And of the larger ones, we are absolutely at our best, and the Minister of Finance, when she walks around Europe, praises her everywhere for what great budgets we have. Thanks to this, after 17 years, we also got a new rating from Moody's. It was awarded 4. 10. 2019. It's a Belgium-level rating. As far as GDP growth and purchasing power are concerned, as I have already announced, we have overcome another state according to the OECD - Spain. The Czech Republic is getting richer, is experiencing the best period of its history and Moody's rating says it is thanks, thanks to reforms of governments since 2014. That's what they said the first time. It's never been written like this before. It should be stressed that no major crisis is coming. We don't have a crisis. There's always someone talking about a crisis. I don't know why we're still scared when next year's budget is clearly pumping money into the economy, among the people. And even the view is favourable for us, by the end of 2021 The Ministry of Finance has announced a comparison with 2020 with an increase in GDP. We're climbing the ladders. We are the most stable economy in Europe, of course there is a problem with building permits in international rankings, but I will get to that. Another report on 22 November - Čech are in danger of poverty especially in the European Union, reports statistics. So I think it's black and white that we're doing well. And, of course, most importantly, if someone is judging us, the media, the opposition, it would be good to finally acknowledge that this is our program. This is the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic. Yes, one thing, and this is a compromise of minority government with the ČSSD, our government, and if anyone criticizes us, they should read it, because we are exactly filling it, as one of the few since the revolution we have fulfilled what we promised the people before the elections. Some say we're lucky and we grow automatically. [[He's showing the materials.]] So please, this is the GDP growth chart as a percentage, and if you look at this mass between 2003 and 2008, there was an increase of 4.7, 6.6, 7 %, 5.6 %, yes, and this is our growth. So it's not true that it fell in our laps. We did something about it. People were afraid to spend until 2013 because they simply lost money. They've been cutting their salaries. And we gained their trust. [[10.20 hours]] And if you look at that consumption today, and that growth is given by consumption, and of course the state is increasing its consumption and will continue to increase - if you look at the consumption of households in 2013, when the government of the right ends, so the consumption of households 2018 is 5.7, so it is 3.5 times more, or the consumption of general government 2013 was 2.7 and 2018 9.9 almost 4 times. So here's a clear number that we're pumping the money and that people aren't supposed to worry about the future of our country because our country has a great future ahead of us. We're going back to where we were in the First Republic. Here you see GDP nominally as it looks, as it was before us. [[still points to graphs]] And they can't make excuses for the crisis. The crisis was 2009, then the right-wing opposition created another crisis. And it's definitely growing for us. And it's growing more and more and it's going to grow. About the deficit. We, of course, have written in the government's programming statement, clearly at the beginning we said that we would support long-term economic growth, and it says: we respect the rule that any deficit must be lower than the level of investment from national sources. We will also stabilise state debt in the long term in relation to GDP and keep it at a low level. So the secretary of finance isn't here, but of course she's given herself an even higher target, where we didn't have to, the deficit was originally 50, she's reduced it to 40. But if we held 30 percent of the stabilization ratio to GDP in debt, of course, the deficit could have been higher in terms of investment. But the question is, how are we prepared for them and, above all, how do we have legislation for them? So this budget-- here are the parameters-- and of course there's always a debate about why we have a deficit. What matters is what the result is and how much money we've pumped into the economy. In 2018, we planned a deficit of 50 and ended 2.9 percent. And if we blame the opposition for what they left for us - and I don't want to go back to that, but the ODS legacy is insane. Because you know, in our deficit, you have definitely destroyed our budget by giving the solar system built by the end of 2010 - Prime Minister Topolánek - a guaranteed discounted purchase price for 20 years. 20 years! And do you know how many tanning salons there are in our budget? Well 30 billion! 30 billion. And 30 billion this year, too. And 2018 also 30 billion. So Mr. President is calling us to do something about the solar system, but the ODS heirloom, that's the thousand-billion-dollar solarium tunnel. And we still have it in the budget. So it's really spicy when you guys put up all kinds of changelings and criticize our deficit, if there weren't for the solariums, we could've had 30 billion of them. give to the really needy. So the budget is being liquidated by this solar tunnel, and we need to talk about it because people forget. And I don't want to go back to the past. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] Well, I'd read here for three hours what you've done, ODS, you've got it on my Facebook Sunday story, I hope everyone's reading it, but that would be a long time. Investment. Supposedly, we're not investing enough. So I happened to be looking at Václav Moravec's questions and there were economists, Mr. ING Bank economist, who said that the Czech Republic is almost at the top of GDP, 4 percent of GDP is invested. The euro area average is only 2.5 and Germany is at 2 percent, so we invest 100 percent more than Germany, and we haven't even started yet, because of course the start, it was a legacy of legislation, unbought land, no projects, etc. So here's the capital expenditure, that's the investment. [[points to the graph]] And here you see an increase of 24 billion year on year. 24 billion. This includes European money. This is a graph. National resources. Light blue, that's the right, you see how it turned out, budget 2014, we still inherited it, and here we go upstairs. So 2020 national resources 88 billion. And we have in the government's programming statement that it must be higher than the deficit. Deficit is 40, so we're doing it. So the important thing, of course, is what we've done here and why we can give so much money to seniors and civil servants. And these aren't the bureaucrats, they're firemen, policemen, soldiers, teachers, etc. Well, because we collected taxes. We went, and when I became Minister of Finance, I thought to myself, we're not going to raise taxes, we're going to cut taxes, and we're going to collect taxes. Taxes. Control report. EET. 33 billion. Definitely. Income from insurance premiums. We started 2013 372 billion, next year 586 billion, an increase of 217 billion. That's pension money. We have a surplus pension account, although we increase pensions dramatically, but of course they are still low. The discharge of public health insurance. Start 2013 228 billion, next year 350 billion. It's leaking to the health department. The difference is 120 billion. So if I load it all up -- that's the main revenue -- that's it, folks, 601 billion.! 601 billion. from 2014 to 2020 we have selected the budget. At the same time, we continuously reduce taxes. Since 2014, it has been 129,7 billion, converted by item. Tax reduction - here we have ODS VAT - started 5 percent, increased, promised something. [[points to the graph]] I must always have fun - a super gross wage, as Mr Moravec has tried me now. It's the biggest ODS scam ever. They said 15 percent tax. And then it didn't work out, so instead of base 100, they gave it 134, so it's 20.1. But if we cancel today, like they're suggesting, it's minus 80 billion.! So we have minus 120 billion. That's their proposal. Nonsense. We're cutting taxes. The VAT went down. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] I don't know why they're laughing. I can prove it at specific rates. Kindergarten. Discounts on children for old coalitions, we've done that several times, that's 9 billion. Liberation to the armed forces. Refund of tax discounts to retired workers 3.5 billion. Returning discounts to the pausalists from the ranks of the CFI 2.8 billion. Increase in the deduction of life and pension insurance. Change in the taxation of pilots. Increase the deduction for blood donors and others. Possibility of depreciation of property by municipalities by non-profit-making entities, etc. 130 billion. tax reductions. [[10.30 hours]] And at the same time, we raised them. Thanks to the fact that we collect the taxes because it has to be said that the state works so that we collect taxes, divide them between self-government - these are regions, municipalities and cities, so they drown in money. The municipalities, the districts of the city have 333 billion in their accounts. About what? Because these are the tax revenues of municipalities and regions since 2013. [[It's showing a graph.]] Prerequisite 2020 increase of almost 100 billion. - municipalities and regions. Look at the line - the capital expenditure of the municipalities. And that's great, and I'm glad, because municipalities and mayors can be an example for the state. Yes? The capital expenditure of 2019 will be nearly 104 billion. So, of course, thanks -- and we edited the RUD, and I'm not even gonna read it here, so we had to fix everything that we actually inherited from the opposition here. Here was a big debate - subsidies for social services. So please, finally look at it as it looked during the demo block: 2007 - 7,122 billion. And we went down to 6.550 billion. And how much will it be this year? 16,780 billion and 17,836 billion next year. So, de facto, since we started in 2004, social services have increased by 10 billion. And I've repeatedly asked the county to finally - there are two captains sitting here - to show us where it ended, but by individual devices. And when I was in the Říčany at my neighbor's 100th birthday party, I knew the salary was 17 grand. 27,000. Why don't you finally show it to us so we can see how it's flowing through those regions? So, folks, 10 billion. Plus! Thanks to us. Look at the light color of the demo block. [[It presents a graph.]] I think it's pretty obvious. Let's get paid. Average salary of police officers. This is where they took their money - the demo block. 2010 was the average wage 33 340. It ended somewhere 2012 - 31. We took off from 32,000. The estimate for next year is 49 thousand. - average wage. Fire department, very important, very important profession for all of us. Start 2013 - 31 802. The heirloom of the demo block. What's the estimate next year? 50 146! Almost 20 grand. extra. How's the total salary in the government's regulated sphere? These are salaries in the state sector. That means teachers, firemen, policemen, soldiers. So 2013 - 25 107 and next year estimated 39 569 average monthly wage. So it's clear when we see these numbers, that people don't worry, because we're going to keep increasing. The average wage, it's lower than in the state sector. State 25,000. - 2013, 36,000 next year. There was a big debate about minimum wage. Yes, it is true that compared to Slovakia and Poland our minimum wage was low, but we need to talk about average wage. And the average wage compared to Slovakia is 7.5 thousand. in addition, monthly higher, to Poland 6 thousand. That's minimum wage. Look, the demo block, how nice it was! Eight thousand on line from 2007 to 2012. Nothing. Still 8,000. 2013 - two hundred more. We started at 8.5 thousand, 14 600. It's obvious this goes into a guaranteed wage. That, of course, is the eight professions that it affects. And it is clear that not all companies are Škoda car or Siemens or others, which obviously have huge salaries, or banks and others. Yes, so it really needs to be done by smaller Czech companies as well. We're blamed for how many civil servants we have. In doing so, it is said that civil servants, but they are not civil servants. These are, here they are, teachers - comparison between 2013 and 2019: 31,000 extra, and we still have little. They blame us for looking for teachers, but that is the problem of the founder - schools, directors or municipalities. And another: police, firefighters, prison service, customs, professional soldiers. Of course, we raise soldiers. We need 30 grand. Soldiers. We have a small army. There also the demo block overslept the time. So these are the civil servants. And for the first time, in fact, in the history of Minister Schillerová, she has shown a reduction in the number of seats and the volume of salaries determined by the government according to the specifics of each chapter. The reduction did not apply to members of the security forces, professional soldiers, employees in regional education and employees in so-called parliamentary chapters. This measure - for the first time we are reducing the number of seats by 2 970 - brought savings of 1 billion. 170 miles. First time! We can talk about wages, how it looked like in 2013 and what it's like now. We've always done that, I haven't been able to enforce it in the past coalition government as Treasury Secretary because we didn't have a majority in the government, so it's always been done by percentages. So the GIBS, which he had, I don't know, here 2013 - 34 573 average and for 2020 he's already 64 thousand, always had the highest average, so of course, when we were increasing the percentage, those who had enough, or I don't want to say much, so they had even more, because of course the percentage, the area increase, is wrong. And then, of course, the Ministry of Culture, the teachers, so they basically didn't have the increase. We didn't. So for the first time this year, we have made it clear that we are not going to do this across the board, and I have to say that the only profession that had absolute preference with us, and it is also in the government's programming statement, are teachers. This year's increase is 15.9 percent. And if someone is preparing me for a word and is referring to something out of context that I made a promise, please read the Czech Government's programming statement again. It says here: We will push more money into education so that the salaries of teachers and non-teachers at the end of the term of office in 2021 will reach at least 150 percent of their amount for 2017. Yes? So that's exactly what we promised. I understand there are other suggestions here, but please, let's be objective. Let's be objective and look at the statistics again. Development of the salaries of pedagogical staff since 2008. We've started, we've inherited the budget, 26 397, and we're already at 38 231 this year. But that's everyone's average, not that somebody's saying it's the higher spreadsheets. No! [[10.40 hours]] And we do, and we do what we promised. That means a prediction of 2021 - 45 342. Needagos - we made a commitment to that too. It's obvious here. [[It's showing a graph.]] Start 14 861 and forecast next year 23 600 and 2021 26 263. And most importantly, there was a debate, yes, how much is the starting salary of young teachers. So here's the comparison. [[shows the supporting documents]] The ninth grade, first degree - red or orange - is a teaching worker - 27,300, blue, that is an official of the local administrative unit. It starts at 18,000. That's a $9,000 difference. And he's still a civil servant - 18,230. So for us, educators, teachers are the absolute priority, because that's where it all begins, of course. And we need motivated teachers, we want it to be the most prestigious profession in Finland. But I'm gonna get to that school thing. So we've decided - we only have an increase of 10 percent in teachers. Everyone else gets CZK 1,500 a month for employee tariffs and at the same time we canceled the first scale of pay rates. This means, for example, for non-teaching workers, for cooks and janitors, etc. There's more than 10 percent jumping around. So 1,500 everyone on the tariff, that means that those who had the least have the highest percentage increase. And those who had the most have a smaller percentage increase. And on average, it's about 4.5 percent. And that's what we're gonna keep doing. Of course, we need to raise salaries, we need to guarantee people not to be afraid to spend. One of the priorities, or one of the main priorities, with which we went to the elections, is, of course, pensions. Pensions are the largest item in the budget - 510 billion. [[He's showing the evidence.]] Here you see in 2013 three hundred... that is a third of almost budget expenditure. We have 2.6 miles. seniors and we promised, and we've already met, the basis for the assessment. And we can see how the demo block was, 2010 - zero, 2014 - 45 kroner. [[shows the documents again]] And we're six years from now, in one year we've given the same amount as last year in five or six years. Exchange of old-age pensions paid for the period 2009 to 2021. Yes, take off. 11 065 and our commitment is 2021 - 15 thousand. Kroner, this is where it goes at 15 116. So we're clearly fulfilling. And, of course, we're talking about pension reform that... We are, of course, waiting to see how the pension committee ends. The point is that we really make up for the difference in pensions between... mostly women are about 2,000. A smaller pension, and most importantly, to finally solve those professions that deserve to retire early. As far as the retirement age is concerned, we do not plan any changes there. I would like to emphasise that. So from the point of view of the budget, I think we've paid a lot of attention to this. Actually, it took a long time to negotiate. And it's a compromise, it's a good budget. And, of course, the opposition's proposals are not even in line with our budgetary rules. The amendments made by the members of the Fiala and Stanjura and others, which imply and their proposals mean that they want to reduce the government's budgetary reserve below the minimum level laid down by the budgetary rules. That's 0.3 percent. That's not a vote at all. They want to reduce expenditure related to EU budget revenue and which has already been approved at first reading. For the next one. They want to reduce expenditure on sickness insurance benefits below the level of expected reality of this year. This is ridiculous! They want to reduce expenditure on state social aid benefits, which would put the payment of an increased parental contribution at risk. These designs have these effects on the chapters of the MPSV. They want to reduce the expenditure of the Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office in particular on salaries. At the same time, these two institutions have one of the lowest salaries in the state administration. In the chapter The General Treasury Administration is proposed by the opposition and the ODS to reduce export support expenditure. But that's your inheritance, folks. After all, the Czech Export Bank, where terrible atrocities were made, and which has already hit us in the budget of about 39 billion, that is your work! And now we have to pay for it. Reduce expenditure on the implementation of state guarantees. Yes, it's still the same. To reduce other expenditure would mean limiting the provision of funds to international financial institutions, the expenditure on censuses and flats in 2021 and expenditure on data boxes. In the chapter of the Ministry of Transport, the opposition proposes to reduce the cost of compensation for fare discounts by 5.5 billion. So please read the Czech Government's programming statement. It's on the front page now. [[He's showing the evidence.]] I don't know why it's still being criticized. We've had it from the beginning. And here on page 1 is: The government will introduce by the end of 2018 discounts on fares on trains and buses for seniors over 65, pupils and students until the age of 26. It's a programming statement. That's why we're filling it. And I must laugh when Mrs Udženija claims that students will go to Europe for free. We did it so that the students had some allowance for expensive rent because unfortunately they are not flats and the rent is high for them. So it's totally unacceptable. And I think the seniors really appreciate the discount that they're using it. At the same time, of course, the transport of passengers by public transport has also increased. The ODS wants to cut space-related spending by 500 miles. The total expenditure associated with the membership of the Czech Republic in ESA paid from the budget of the Ministry of Transport in 2019 is 932 million. So the total expenditure associated with the membership of the Czech Republic in ESA for 2020 and 2021 is 1.208 billion per year. Cosmic activities contribute significantly to economic growth and employment in the Czech Republic and at the same time provide modern technologies and services that further enable the development of other areas and reflect the country's economic maturity. Cosmic activities represent stability and counterweight to negative economic trends. Well, we wanted a hi-tech. We want - the Czech Republic countries for the future. Mr. Havlíček's innovative strategy. [[10.50 hours]] Furthermore, the ODS wants to reduce the other expenditure associated with the state's transport policy by 1.4 billion. This is mainly the indicator to compensate for fare discounts and costs associated with cosmic activities. In the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, it is proposed to reduce regional development and tourism spending by 2,9 billion. Such a reduction would basically mean the end of financing this area, including the national programmes of the Czech Tourist contribution organizations, which ensures the promotion of the Czech Republic abroad and the centres of regional development. In the MIT chapter, it is proposed to reduce business support expenditure by 5,8 billion, which would endanger the co-financing of the project under the OPIK, R & D, industrial zones and brownfields. A reduction would also mean a reduction in EU funds for research and development. I remember even the right was thinking about shutting down the Academy of Sciences. Back then. Absurd. And please, since I have your press conference here, we're teaching the government to save money. Over-supporting corporations. So you guys were in the government when the corporations got tax relief, I don't know, in about 15 years, about 54 billion, and our government ended up with subsidies for assembly and storage, yes, where we spent so much money. So I don't understand, we did it, but you supported it. Subsidy to agro-complexes. No one knows what it is. I asked Minister Toman what that meant, so maybe it would be nice to explain it because it doesn't exist. There are no subsidies to agro complexes. Each farmer receives a grant per hectare, and even the larger ones have a limit. So this is where we propose 4.8 billion. less, reduce other expenditure on the Ministry's state policy, inspection, control and research activities by 1.2 billion. . At the Ministry of Environment it is proposed to reduce by 600 miles. CZK, which would put the operation of subordinate organisations providing environmental management and activity at risk. In addition, they will be the funds to support research and development or contributions to zoos and non-profit organisations, so these are not really good proposals for budget cuts and for moving between chapters. I'd like to say something about our innovation strategy. We believe that, and well that we have changed the name of the Czech Republic - a country for the future, before that we were a country of stories, I don't know what. We were just ashamed of what nonsense this is, the land of stories. So what's important is that we are preparing a national economic strategy. Unfortunately, our country lacked clear economic visions. We have dozens of strategic documents, but most of them in academic or ministerial drawers, the result was that the plans formed isolatedly on individual ministries, lacked the concentration of strategic targets under one roof and the link with different areas of the economy. At this point, the Deputy Prime Minister is preparing basic theories for the economy, which will guide the preparation of the economic strategy itself. The objective of the economic strategy will be to move the Czech Republic between the 20 most competitive economies in the world to 2030. In doing so, we want to work with what has already been created, adding what is necessary. Our ambition is to fundamentally reduce, link, update the country's priorities in relation to the current strategy and to cover in terms of consistent management. The basis of the upcoming economic vision is the innovation strategy of the Czech Republic 2019-2030. The inspiration of economic vision is the Scandinavian countries, the Netherlands, Switzerland or, for example, Ireland, which have very successfully built prosperity on the cooperation of science with industry and trade. A key element of the economic strategy will already be the implementation part, based on specific management objectives, the timing of links to financial resources, regular monitoring and evaluation. We consider it essential that the most important representatives of employers, small and medium-sized enterprises and businessmen, trade unions, academic and scientific institutions, the ministries and representatives of the regions concerned are actively involved in the formulation of the economic vision. This creates continuity assumptions beyond the current government's horizon, because we assume that those governments that come after us will continue to do so. The pillars of the national economic strategy are: industry, construction and raw materials, transport, energy, education and labour market, business and trade, research, development, innovation and digitization, regions, landscape and agriculture and health. The thesis and analyses of the national economic strategy will be presented by the end of the year, as part of the first anniversary of the innovation strategy, an economic strategy will be presented in the spring. Furthermore, as is known, we have established the National Development Fund. The National Development Fund is based on an idea that has been ripening for a long time and which has resulted from the country's investment needs in the area of infrastructure development in excess of the available amount of public resources needed to cover them, that gap will continue to increase after reducing the above-standard flow of funds from the European Structural Funds. The National Development Fund should provide funding for significant infrastructure projects on the principle of partnership between the private and public sectors. It will be ready to invest in infrastructure in transport, education, health and others. One of the sources of the project suitable for implementation through the National Development Fund will also be the National Investment Plan. How will the National Development Fund work? The Czechoslovak Guarantee and Development Bank will be the founder of the National Development Fund and its sole shareholder. The Fund will have professional leadership that respects the principles of sound economics and will follow the legislative rules of collective investment. The objective of the Fund's investment strategies will be to return investment, achieve the maximum investment effect on the project and evaluate the investment funds to the extent that this will motivate and allow investors to enter the National Development Fund, as well as their long-term growth with the current measurable social benefits of the investment. The role of the National Development Fund is to increase interest in financing projects supported by the NRF, which provides junior funding, and to take part of the risk. The NRF will reduce the total financial cost of the project, increase the availability of funding for end-users, and also, of course, we want to speed up PPP projects. So the National Development Fund - the situation is that by the end of 2019 the documentation for submitting a licence application for the Czech National Development Fund as an investment fund is prepared, according to the Act on Investment Companies and Investment Funds. [[Nesroz.]] All signatories to the Memorandum will cooperate in preparing these documents. The memorandum was signed on 19 September 2019 by representatives of four banks, Česká spořitelna, ČSOB, Komerční banka, Unicredit bank, and a memorandum on cooperation in the implementation of the National Development Fund. The banks confirmed the readiness to voluntarily invest in the fund, together with other investors, up to 7 billion. Crowns. As far as businessmen are concerned, we are criticized for not doing anything for businessmen, which is, of course, not true. The resort is in the competence of the ANO movement shortly. Only with the arrival of Minister Havlíček, who was the chairman of the Association of Traders, Small and Medium Enterprises, have we introduced the trade package, which consists of: supporting family business, where we said tasks - approving the definition of family, business and family, business corporations, that is already fulfilled. [[11.00 hours]] Prepare a manual to hand over the family company to the next generation - completed. Introduce the registration of family companies - this will be in March 2020. Implement further steps as an approach to finance. We started special programs for family companies in ČMZRB, guarantees, loans, better interest. Easier to start. The state must make their business start as easy as possible for those interested in the trade license. That is why we have simplified the notification of trade and processing of the licence application through the Citizen's Portal, including registrations for taxes and levies. Tasks: arrange for a more comfortable processing of the trade license through the Portal of the Citizen - completed. To facilitate registration for tax duties and contributions through the Citizen's Portal - completed. We still need to shorten registration to VAT. To allow the composition of the capital for s. r. o in the notary safekeeping, it will be in 2020. The company can be established online today in several tens of minutes, including registration for tax duties. We are, of course, criticized for the fact that it takes a long time to process VAT, which is what we are discussing with the Ministry of Finance to reduce it to a minimum. Furthermore, in the package for businessmen, changes in laws are only twice a year. The legislation of the undertaking is changing at irregular intervals and it is difficult to monitor the development, so our tasks: to reserve two days, 1 January and 1 July, for the effectiveness of laws with an impact on businessmen and other business entities - this is fulfilled. To implement the effective use of these two days for the introduction of new laws with an impact on businessmen and other business entities, in addition to the justified exceptions which must always be duly justified, this is ready for 2020. No more tax exemptions. Tasks: to carry out a thorough analysis of existing tax exemptions and assess their impact on the amount of the general tax rate, that will be 2020. Start by reducing generalization and merging exceptions - started, e.g. meal vouchers and other 2020. Do not introduce new exceptions, it is fulfilled. Single form database. Tasks: collect all forms for entrepreneurs in one place - completed. It's on businessinfo.cz, it's online, tools, forms and it's very easy to find a specific form. Another task: to enable forms to be completed in electronic form through interactive files or online applications, this will be completed in March 2020. Next item, all responsibilities in one place. Tasks: to make the information system operational for PES entrepreneurs The Chambers of Commerce of the Czech Republic, in which they can easily find an overview of their responsibilities towards public administration - fulfilled. Prepare a new website for businessinfo entrepreneurs, which will test themselves entrepreneurs and businessmen, ready, it will be from January 2020. For further, limiting statistical surveys. Tasks: limit the statistical inquiry to a minimum of 25 million savings. for at least 3.5 thousand per year. Entrepreneurs, this has been fulfilled. Limit statistical inquiry at a saving rate of at least 40 million. for at least 13 thousand per year. entrepreneurs, we will implement this in 2020. For further, simpler and lower taxes not only for small companies. Fighting tax fraud and evasion works, annual report etc. It is now a priority to help small entrepreneurs and businessmen. The main measure - increase the annual income limit for calculating the flat-rate expenditure of 1 million. 2 miles. - Completed. Yes, we did that together with the ODS, that's what we're applying for. Reduce VAT on catering services from 15 to 10 % VAT, professional services from 21 or 15 to 10 % in connection with the amendment to EET, this is fulfilled, it will apply from 1 May 2020. Launch Portal My taxes - December 2020. To introduce a flat-rate tax for businessmen and other entrepreneurs from the Ministry of Economic Affairs with a turnover of up to CZK million, a small single collection point, will apply from 2021. Simplify the provision of the employee's meal allowance, the possibility of a meal voucher - 2021. Nine, compensation for execution costs. Our tasks: to enforce a flat-rate compensation for the costs of businessmen and other entrepreneurs for the administration of executives within the government amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, that is to 2021. A more supportive construction office. Our tasks: to implement a system where the businessman only gives the project and other mandatory statements for it are handled by the construction office. That, of course, is the question of how the recodification of the construction law will turn out. It is, of course, a law for a very long period of time, and hopefully - and it is a law that must be agreed within, in my opinion, all the parties and movements that are in the House, it also means with the opposition, because we all certainly feel that this is a big problem and, of course, it is the biggest problem in terms of evaluating the position of the Czech Republic. Of course within the project or Ministry of Industry the most important is the innovation strategy, this is the project Czech Republic - a country for the future. We have indeed increased record investment in Czech research and development. Investments in areas increased by 12.3 billion year on year last year. CZK, total here was issued including business resources 102.8 billion. At the same time, the number of researchers themselves increased. In 2020, 58 billion will go to science. CZK not only from public sources, but another 70 are expected from private sources. Enforcement of the Government Amendment to Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation, employment of foreign experts and workers in the fields of science, research, innovation and industry. Preparation of the programme The country for the future, for which the Ministry of Industry and Trade reserved a total of 6.1 billion. CZK from 2020 to 2027 and the programme emphasizes mentoring start-ups, spin-offs and individual work. This year, the Ministry of Industry and Trade launched the Trend programme to support industrial research and experimental development. This project is implemented by the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic. Calculations for science and research, important for companies. This March, the amendment to the rules on tax deductions for research and development came into force, thus changing the whole process of applying deductions and the emphasis was mainly on reducing its administrative complexity. Investment incentives. On September 6, a new regulation of Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives, and that is exactly what I was talking about a moment ago, that we ended up giving incentives to montaces or investments that are not high-tech, and that we want to focus on technological centres or centers of strategic services. Furthermore, as regards the innovation strategy, at the beginning of this school year, second-degree pupils in selected schools first became acquainted with the new subject of technology. In the school year 2022-2023, the course should be introduced across the board to all primary schools in the Czech Republic. The preparation of dual education - in addition to regular teaching, is also active. teaching in practice and pupils are preparing directly in companies, we've been talking about this for a long time. Started pilot project of tandem teaching with humanoid. As part of the AI initiative, the introduction of a similar project with a humanoid being is thus obvious. By the way, the Czech Republic has applied for two centres of excellence on the European Union in terms of artificial intelligence, because we are the only ones in the region who actually have 500 scientists on artificial intelligence, and we certainly have to fight to get at least one center, because the European Union only thinks about four centres. So implementing an artificial intelligence strategy is one of the national priorities. [[11.10 hours]] Total support for the innovation ecosystem, whose task is to support universities, scientific and research institutions, start-ups or spin-off projects in the field of information and communication technologies. Further building strategic incubators in the field of mobility, artificial intelligence, circular economy, but possibly also security, FinTech and so on. Young start-ups and smaller companies can obtain more accessible offices, technological support, laboratories, facilities, cooperation with the Czech industry. The creation of the Expansion Financial Instrument - a programme to support the introduction of innovation, for example in the field of circular economy, preferential loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also a programme suitable for start-up companies - a programme from the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank. Creation of the concept of Czech national exhibitions, unified communication of the Czech Republic at domestic and foreign exhibitions and trade fairs under the brand Czech Republic: The Country for the Future. Exhibitions at trade fairs in the Czech Republic - for the first time we saw it in Brno and there was a fantastic exhibition where for the first time all the institutions performed and represented in one pavilion. Digitalization - preparation of project 5G. In August of this year, negotiations were held at the Ministry of Industry and Trade regarding the launch of the implementation and development of the 5G network. Furthermore, the Internet to each municipality - realization of the project to cover white places. Even in 2019, the Czech countryside is still struggling with a lack of Internet access from time to time. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has taken part in an initiative aimed at ensuring a stable internet connection. I'd like to say about the National Investment Plan right now. It's incredible that we're gonna think of something - and luckily, the wrong National Investment Plan escaped to the media. Mr. Michálek has already sued us for not wanting to give it to him. So, of course, we'll introduce him, as promised, on December 16th, on Monday, I promised we'd introduce him by Christmas. It's basically an inspiration from history. Why do we admire Jan Antonín Baťa or Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, Švehla and so on? They had a clear vision of how to build the state. Baťa also wrote: "Let's stand for 40 million." And we have inspired and prepared the National Investment Plan of the Czech Republic, the first in history. And it is the investment potential of our country, which should work not only for this government, but for all others. Here some colleagues are already preparing for the positions of ministers and prime ministers, so when they get there, they will simply look at it and have the current state of affairs as they draw on the National Investment Plan. And why did we do that? Well, because over the last 30 years, Czech politicians have completely resigned to any long-term strategic investment planning and have not been able to exploit the long-term potential of our country and our people. And it is a great pity that we did not mainly use the period until 2000, when there were no regions and we were not part of the EU. It would certainly be easier, for example, in terms of construction and investment. And then our legislation was not so complicated and all strategic infrastructure constructions could be built faster than today. Now that I've been to Ukraine, they've passed 83 laws in 70 days. In 70 days, 83 laws. That's great. There's so many laws waiting in a row, you know better than I do. We actually came up with it based on the trips to the county. And there, again, we promised only two things - an MRI in Kromeriz and a kindergarten in Semily. And we've done that. So I don't know why anyone's telling me we made promises. No, that's potential. That's potential. We just changed it. It was originally until 2030, but since we have 30 years of freedom and democracy behind us and the next year is 2020, we have turned it into our country's full investment potential by 2050, so another 30 years. And this plan should serve the next prime ministers, ministers, captains, mayors, just all public investors. It should serve as further support for our economic growth, which has only been driven by consumption and exports so far. And we have to invest. Of course, there have been various government resolutions in the past. I remember the castle in Litomyšl that there was some resolution that would be corrected, I think, in 2002, or Kvasiny 2014. But if it doesn't get into the budget, then such government resolutions can't actually be implemented. So we must have a clear long-term vision of what we will invest in in the short, medium and long-term. We also need to know what conditions the investment project must fulfil. So it's not a financing plan, it's just potential. And, of course, every year, when the budget and budgetary outlook are being made, the minister simply looks at it, sees at what stage or situation the individual projects are in, and negotiates the budget or implement PPP projects. I really hope we can finally do that PPP project on the Strakonick highway. And now even based on an interview with ŘSD I have identified - a great PPP project would be, if we were building the Hradec-Island motorway, so that section of the Island-Mohelnice, that's a crazy stretch, that's 70 kilometers, and that would be an ideal PPP project, yes. Because we simply - the mass of the potential of these investments is huge. And our resources are the Czech budget, European money, PPP, National Investment Fund, possibly funding from the European Investment Bank and so on. So the purpose of the National Investment Plan is to gather all the investment options in one place, where a magazine is created, and when negotiating the budgets, it will be dealt with. So by missing it, we've already seen the reaction. Especially the pirát are already criticizing it, and I don't understand why. I don't understand why. Because it's a project for everyone, and I don't know what's in it to criticize. We, of course, also in the preamble to the National Investment Plan, call on all the citizens of our country to get acquainted with this and to inform us about what projects are missing in the National Investment Plan, or they are there to simply give us an opinion on how to carry out some kind of national consultation. So that's the National Investment Plan. I don't understand why this is going to be an affair again. It's a shame we didn't have it in 1990, so maybe today would look completely different in terms of infrastructure. Now digitalization. We're digitizing. We've moved the frozen electronization of the state administration, and it's starting to show. Everything we do in this matter today is aimed at making the service of the state available to citizens, entrepreneurs and businesses in a modern way, without unnecessary paperwork, quickly and efficiently. A year after the adoption of the Digital Czech Republic strategy prepared by government agent Vladimír Dzurilla, we have launched key projects and they are starting to produce first results. [[11.20 hours]] We hold a prepared National Architecture Framework and National Architecture Plan, two key standards for state administration that give guidance on how to do IT. We do not plan to build fourteen eGovernments for each resort, but one central eGovernment in the framework of unified management. We have three key documents: Information Concepts of the Czech Republic, National Architecture Framework and National Architecture Plan. All resorts must be aligned. We'll have one payment gate, one data box, one login system. When I'm in documents, we have dozens of strategies that bind to digitization. Next year, they'll start to decline. We started a project to leave only the necessary ones and close all the old and invalid strategies. Legislation - what is not in the legislation, we cannot do that. That is why the law on the right to digital service is so important that it removes a lot of obstacles. It places, among other things, digital negotiations at an equivalent level with physical actions, allowing us to share data between systems. What will he bring us? Pre-filled forms. It saves to create a catalogue of services within one year, have a plan and then implement it within four years. We'll have everything digital in five years. We're setting up a system that will inherit other governments and build on it. The law on the right to digital services is followed by another 150 laws. We are all finalizing and on 15 January 2020 we are starting a commemorative process. There have never been so many legislative changes in the area of digitization. And I'm not afraid to say when this process is over, that we have the best legislation taken to digitize the world. We've got new things, but we're moving the existing ones. We've turned the data boxes into more user-friendly. We've grown to use them, the monthly average is 8 miles. messages. Users are over 1.4 miles. There are hundreds of filings through data boxes today. Citizen's portal. Gateway to light online services available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We see the documents and their validity, the balance of points to our driving skills, the extract from the trade register, the extract from the real estate register, the services of the Czech Social Security Administration, the Financial Administration and even more. We connect and connect all the ministry portals, connect cities so we can communicate with the state easier. We have a functional notification, so you'll get a message that your papers or technical papers are closing. We are preparing a tender for the payment gate, one central place, you will pay the state as you are used to in the e-shop. However, we have come across the fact that we still have few citizens using electronic identity. There are 550 thousand at the moment, and that's very few. We got together with the banks, and the result is today's approved banking identity law - BankID. Following the adoption of appropriate legislation and preparation of the system of banks, the citizen will be able to log in to the Portal of the Citizen 5.5 million. people as easily as they do their electronic banking. We are beginning a whole new era in how services will be used, already in a year this revolutionary change. As promised, the model of Estonia, people don't really go to the authorities anymore. We have promised three key laws this year, and here is the third, today approved legislation on digitally technical maps, which is a prerequisite for accelerating the construction process. In addition to the maps, there will be also a builder's Portal, Data Storage by collaborating, decision and expression of the authorities concerned, Data Storage by Project Documentation and National Geoportal of Territorial Planning. Representatives of the MMR, transport and others worked on the proposal, along with the cadastral authorities, regions, cities, professional organisations and the private sector, including Members across the political spectrum. As far as I know, mostly Mr. Kupka and Mrs. Kořanová. The digitization of the approval process, together with the recodification of the construction law, becomes a breakthrough in the changes to the construction procedure. We know that the construction process takes a long time for us to change this and a large part of it is legally resolved after today. A major shift in health care should then mean the anticipated approval of legislation to digitise health care in the next year. Finished paragrafo texts, we are waiting for discussion, and the subsequent implementation moves us a long way away. As of 1 January 2020, we are launching an e-Cancellation. All data between doctor, employer and patient will be digital. We're giving only one proof of incompetence for the patient. We'll change that, too, and the citizen gets confirmation in the data box. We are also working on the Portal of the Ministry of Transport, the Portal of the Entrepreneur and others. Each resort will publish services that will be available to citizens online. The basis will be pre-filled forms. We also digitize the inside of the authorities and try to digitize their procedures, such as eLegislative projects, e Collection, eJustice and so on. Another important portal is the My Tax portal. We can file taxes electronically today. We are trying to make sure that when you decide to pay taxes in this way, as much data as possible is prefilled. In the fourth quarter of next year we will start the first stage and then we will develop further. The whole digitization is also an opportunity for a big revision. As part of the controlling, we keep records of all IT systems and costs for all resorts so that we know exactly where the money goes. We'll know exactly what the resorts have money for, what they need and what we'll get with the money we've invested. I also remind you that the government has set aside 492 miles for next year. beyond the budget of the department for digitisation. The accounts got the money, this is the money for services that will use all the resorts. Investment in Czech POINT, basic registers, plan implementation of the law on the right to digital service, Portal of citizen, but also Portal of entrepreneur and control web. Digitalization, however, is not just about government, it is about the digital economy and actually the entire digital society. In this field, we are very much involved in stopping the train from passing by in comparison with other states. We have created Digital Innovation Hubs, Center for Digital Innovation, a non-profit entity with the aim of promoting the digital transformation of society, especially SMEs, the organisation of public administration and educational institutions. We have a national strategy of artificial intelligence and we strive to build a centre of excellence in the Czech Republic. We have a study of the potential of new blockchain technologies. We are very focused on developing the Smart Cities concept. We are pushing a lot to build and develop 5G networks in the Czech Republic. We have Action Plan 2.0 which aims to simplify and reduce network construction. We've taken revolutionary steps that will move us forward. And they even commended us at tripartite meetings. One of the key strategies for us, of course, is education. We have made it clear in the Government's programming statement that we care extraordinarily about education. And, of course, we will do what it says in the government's programming statement. It is also important to remember what we have done in terms of changing the financing of regional education. We have prepared three development programmes for a smooth transition to the development of financing methods. First, the development programme of the financial overlap of the direct pedagogical activities of teachers, taking into account the operation of kindergarten schools. Since January 2019, kindergartens have been able to ensure overlap between teachers in all classes, and to extend the period of operation from September onwards. Funds of 1.8 billion were provided for the development programme. The primary and secondary schools could then from 1. 9. 2019 on the basis of another development programme to divide teaching more according to its own needs up to the level of the so-called PHmax. Funds of 0,7 billion were provided for the development programme. Crowns. The development programme Partial compensation of the inter-regional differences in the remuneration of teacher staff of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, conservatory and school associations in 2019 was year-round and was aimed at partial compensation of the inter-regional differences of the non-annual component of the salary of teachers. In the development programme, a total of 1 billion have already been distributed on individual regions. 52 miles. The change in funding is sufficiently financial for 2020 in the MŠMT budget. In addition to the amount of 10 per cent increase in salaries of all budgetary pedagogical staff and about 10 per cent increase in salaries of all budgeted non-teaching staff, that is to say 11 billion. 95 miles. for educators and 2 billion. 274 miles. for non-teaching, the budget of 2020 is above the budget of 2019, i.e. 600 million. CZK to improve the quality of education thanks to the space given by PHmax, that means dividing hours and group teaching, and 400 mil. - improving the quality of education by ensuring the overlap of kindergarten teachers and extending the period of operation of kindergarten schools. A billion nine miles. the model of non-teaching staff, an increase of 10 per cent in kindergartens and 10 per cent in primary schools and 5 per cent in secondary schools. The increase in pedagogical work linked to the growth of performance in regional education by 1 billion is also fully covered. 738 miles. to new classes. [[11.30 hours]] For 2021, the Ministry of Education is, of course, continuing its strategy and will be a systemic increase in additional entitlement components to pay and the overall increase in the share of over-the-counter components of teaching staff, in the field of other non-investment expenditures, i.e. in particular in textbooks, teaching aids and further education of pedagogical staff. It is necessary to simplify the legislative executive way of financing through current development programmes. The change in funding aims to enable schools to finance from the funds they receive from the state budget, other education-related costs, which are currently mainly burdened by low-income parents. These are, for example, schools in nature, skiing and other sports stays. At the same time, the change will simplify the administration of the financing of compulsory swimming courses. We had a debate with our colleague on the question of giving little money to school infrastructure. So I've been doing it here - nursery, kindergarten, elementary school, secondary school - since 2014 when I introduced the program at the Ministry of Finance, which actually created around Prague in Central Bohemia region up to 15 thousand. places. For pupils we invested almost 26 billion. The koruna, of which 7 billion. from the state budget and almost 19 billion. from Europe. And we gradually changed according to requirements, which is why we went to those regions. And it is clear that now we have an analysis of children's groups, kindergartens, their availability, because simply after we did tax discounts for working parents on the first, second and third children in the first government, we need to allow our women to return to work if they want to, of course, and create conditions and facilities for them to simply have somewhere to put their children. So, of course, that's the target. In addition to the projects we had at the Ministry of Finance, 151 municipalities received 4 billion. And the program, even though we originally didn't want to continue, we'll continue. These programmes are, of course, fragmented between finance, education and MMR. Now I'd like to say something about health care. Health care before our arrival was called a black hole for money. It was burdened with corruption, we read it in the European Commission's 2013 Corruption Report. A new era of Czech health has come with Minister Vojtěch Adam. And we were together at the Treasury Department, and for that time, in 2014, I told him that 300 billion. He's flowing through health care to look into it, so I think he's got a very good eye. And to the health department - and I just showed it here - it's going to be 350 billion. 350 billion. [[shows the graph]] That's 120 billion. More than the end of the right. And historically, it's a historical amount of funds for health care. And I think our doctors, who are one of the best in the world in individual professions, such as cardiology, neurology, and others, deserve it. And they deserve to work in hospitals that are invested. So 350 billion. And it needs to be recalled that now it's been two years since we boarded that resort. And health care is going to be a record 35 billion next year. extra. The Minister of Health has set up a system for the creation of a second-year payment order based on the consensus of the whole health and the law. We refused to continue as our predecessors in creating a decree behind closed doors. The remuneration decree is now the result of a compromise between health care providers, representatives of health insurance companies, in a conciliation procedure that we respect and appreciate. And I also took part in the proceedings when we found out that although we are clearly saying that hospital salaries are to be determined by the directors that we also have to take account of the 1,500 crowns in the payment decree. We also appeal to health insurance companies to systematically focus on improving the quality and availability of health care, and we are succeeding. This approach will be felt by patients in the form of shorter waiting periods, longer working hours, more modern equipment and more available therapies. Of course, the effectiveness of our hospitals' management is at the heart of our interests. We're developing hospital shopping together. In the pilot project, all our large hospitals began to buy together selected medicines and materials and three of them expensive devices. Thanks to this, we only achieved 200 miles of savings on the pilot. And we're going to expand our shopping together. In addition, we have given clear rules to public contracts and problematic perceived return bonuses. We also invest in the development of hospitals. We are preparing 7 strategic investments of 12 billion. Here they are. [[He's showing the document.]] We have a plan like this. 12 billion. And of that, the state budget is 8.5 billion. and the hospital's own resources 3.1 billion. IKEM - we approved that. IKEM can prepare the competition. IKEM, folks, is one of the three best transplant centers in Europe. Berlin, Vienna, IKEM Prague. 508 transplants. Excellent results. Huge reputation. All over Europe and the world. Of course, the goal of IKEM is to build a full-fledged emergency income and other missing capacities through the construction of two pavilions integrated into one building and functionally linked to the existing operation. Faculty Hospital Plzeň. That's where we recently... Of course, we visit all these hospitals with the Minister. schválený. Construction of the surgical pavilion for 1.7 billion. The aim is to concentrate all health care in the Lochotín area. They've already got a great emergency reception. It's a real rush hour. They're also finishing a psychiatric clinic. Brno University Hospital. Unfortunately, this is one of the hospitals that has financial problems, and of course we are dealing with them. I'll get to that. The aim is to merge the currently separate Bohunice workplaces and the cereals market into one compact and functional unit with a link to complement. Olomouc University Hospital. Great hospital. Amazing. Reconstruction and completion of the main building. The aim is to concentrate the maximum associated professional operations into the optimal area. General Faculty Hospital Prague. Unfortunately, she's also in financial trouble. Construction of a new combined building. The aim is to concentrate energy operations. And unfortunately, this hospital has been forgotten in the past. Heat management. Investigative and research labs. The Faculty Transfusion Department. So-called clean operation of the Constitutional Pharmacy into the new combined laboratory operating pavilion with the central area. [[11.40 hours]] Hradec Králové University Hospital, great hospital. Modernization of surgical fields, the aim is an effective concentration of surgical disciplines, including links to relevant complements to the modernised centre. Well, Thomayerův's hospital - it's bad luck. It was built by Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk in 1918 and somehow we forgot about it. So this hospital really isn't in good shape. And the pulmonary clinic, where we have one of the best experts, Professor, in Europe, it really looks awful. We obviously have a clear plan, because in Prague, when you see what Motol, Homolka, IKEM looks like and you look at Thomayerka, Royal Vinohrady and Bulovka - the best hospital in Europe 1931, it's a disaster, the difference. So we need to straighten out the investments. We need to provide all doctors and patients with a normal environment. So when they come to the hospital and see the horror of not being completely depressed. As the first ever government, we are very responsible for the current biggest health challenge, and this is the solution to the lack of doctors and nurses. We put emphasis on continuous and targeted wage growth, we increased the capacity of medical faculties. I was the first prime minister to call the deans to my office. And it's incredible that, in fact, 2,500 students didn't get to the medical school every year. So I asked why. Well, because they're not educators. And why aren't they educators? Because there's no money! How come they're not? Well, we decided in an hour. Since September 2018, they have received 138 miles. and we've done a government support programme on general medicine. Seven billion for medical faculties by 2029 to increase the number of students by 15 percent. And the current data collection carried out by the medical faculties and ÚHIS showed that the faculties fulfilled this commitment and overall increased the number of students in the first years of general medicine studies by 20,5 percent, which is 379 extra students. I don't understand why no one has done this in the past. We complain, we don't have enough doctors, and here students actually wanted to study, they couldn't because they weren't educators. So that's settled. Of course, sisters are a big problem. But that's what we're trying to solve, of course, not only by motivation, but in general, the problem with our health care is that there are hospitals that belong to the state that belongs to the regions, each region is different, there's another director, there's another captain, there's another city. We were dealing with Rumburk, Litoměřice, so it would be really good if we had it so fragmented that it would be in at least two places. In two places - i.e. States and regions. And, of course, we need to work better with these regions. Continuous wage growth. Doctors, sisters, I've already shown this, they've improved significantly since 2014. The doctor's average reward increased by 32 percent, and the nurse's reward even increased by 41 percent. According to data from the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, in 2019 the average reward of doctors will exceed 84,000 and the remuneration of nurses will exceed 43,000. But by lack of them, of course, the system is consumed. Because when we were in White House, those poor sisters take much less there than in Ostrava, so Ostrava marries sisters from White House, etc. So unfortunately. And in terms of average wage, the salary of a doctor and nurse in the Czech Republic was compared to the average of the European Union in international comparison. Last year, we added 2,000 crowns to nurses and ambulances in shifts, because these workers were the very ones who were in short supply. For next year, they will significantly improve their nurses in their home care, and their salary may increase by up to CZK 10,000 a month. Next, we have a new concept of residence for doctors. Changing the financing of specialization education through residential places, passing on the preparation of young doctors, these places are voluntary. The aim is to address the lack of doctors in specific specializations, the motivation of providers of employment of young doctors, and the motivation of young doctors to work in these regions. The proposal contains a promise that the doctor with the provider of health services, respectively. in a given region, will remain employed even after obtaining specialised competence. Next, doctor's scholarships. We are launching scholarships to students of medical disciplines directly managed by the Ministry's organisations. In the current situation on the labour market, this is one of the active forms of labour acquisition. For further, improving the availability and accessibility of specialization training of doctors. Currently, all training programmes for specialization education of doctors, formerly basic disciplines, have been completed, and most of them have reduced the length of specialisation education and, at the same time, increased the availability of education, which means that they can be educated for longer periods in a lower type of workplace, and also reduced the length of compulsory practice in faculty hospitals. The Ministry promotes the so-called the socket system, which will mean the possibility of including professional experience in the specialization industry into the superstructure industry. This will also reduce education in the superstructure sectors and will enable more experts to be provided. Come in. For the first time in history, the Ministry of Health has prepared legislation to regulate the competence of doctors to acquire the professional competence of graduates of medical faculties, and further prepares legislation that will establish competence even after graduating from the basic tribe. Next, a project by Ukraine for doctors. A project aimed at enabling highly qualified foreign workers to work with us. The Ministry of Health participated in this project in mid-2016. Since then, we have included a total of 278 doctors and 477 non-medical workers. The Ministry of Health also made changes in previous years in the system of aprobation tests. The oral part of the doctor's examination was divided into two days on the basis of suggestions from the public, while the subjects of the oral part have been successfully counted. These changes should ensure higher success of applicants for aprobation exam while at the same time guaranteeing the quality of health services provision in the Czech Republic. Subsidy for practitioners and dentists in remote areas. We really have a big problem in some areas. We even once looked for the head of the internship, and he didn't want for $250,000. So it's a problem. And the goal, of course, is to motivate dentists to establish practices even in less attractive areas, so now we have what these subsidies are, dental practice, number of subsidies, 22, total amount of 24.6 million. Crowns. And to practices throughout the Czech Republic, so together, I'll show you subsidies for the practice of practical doctors. [[He's showing the chart.]] Number of subsidies 48, total amount 16,5 million. Crowns. Yes, we really want medical care available everywhere. [[He's showing the chart.]] So, overall, it is 70 dentists' and practitioners' offices throughout the Czech Republic, totaling 41 miles. Crowns. And I think that there is great news for almost 100,000 citizens, for whom healthcare is now much more accessible. I've been to Sluknov, and that's the problem, that Rumburk. We need to sort this out. And I'm hoping County Medical will sort it out. Because I'm convinced that regions, if it's not owned by the state, should have regions. Come in. Working group on staff stabilization is looking for a system solution. It was established by Minister Vojtěch after his arrival, represented by employers and trade unions. Next, primary care reform. Greater attractiveness of the profession of a physician. The aim is to strengthen the role of practitioners in the system so that they are the gateway of the patient to the healthcare system. The practicer should address most common problems and, in really difficult cases, direct the patient to specialists to take care of some chronic patients. There's no way everything goes to hospitals. The greater attractiveness of the field will help to address the lack of practitioners. [[11.50 hours]] For the next one. Improving working conditions, reducing the administrative burden on health workers. We want to make it as simple as possible for paramedics. We reduce administration and also prepare for the electronicisation of health care, which will lead to further unnecessary bureaucratic steps. Electronic health care will bring comfort not only to health professionals but also to patients and speed up data sharing. The draft Act on the Electronisation of Health will be submitted to the Government by the end of March 2020. It is also extremely important that every worker, every paramedic, does the job that he is qualified to work teams from auxiliary and lower medical personnel through practical and general nurses to doctors. Administration is to be provided by administrative staff. And that's why we're running a new training course for a health care administrator. For the next one. Strengthening the competences of general nurses and other non-medical health professionals. Increasing the competences of non-medical health professionals is a worldwide trend. The intention is to strengthen the autonomy and responsibility of nurses where sisters have a greater autonomous and independent role, this is in the sections of health care provided in their own social environment, long-term and subsequent health care, hospice care. Specifically, we strive to allow a nurse to prescribe certain medical devices, such as incontinence aids, diapers, pads, dental aids, compression tights, etc. For the next one. Psychosocial support, prevention of negative effects of psychological and physical burden. The goal is to keep the existing workers. We must also focus on maintaining good health and mental health and offering them maximum. Support for the adjustment of working time, part-time work, increase in the number of auxiliary and lower staff at exposed workplaces, especially in the hands of independent employers. Creating a network of trained psychosocial support providers and providing psychosocial support to health workers. For the next one. Increasing the attractiveness and prestige of non-medical health professionals. Motivation and recruitment campaign Study health care to promote the visibility of non-medical medical professions. Education in these fields and increasing their prestige. The aim of the campaign is to attract young people to study at secondary and higher vocational health schools and to work in health care. We also joined the international Nursing Now campaign with the same goal. And another one. The remuneration of pupils and students in medical schools for practice. The solution is the remuneration of pupils and students preparing for the exercise of the medical profession for their professional activities with the health service provider; it requires a change in the school law. It's in MŠMT. Our government has begun to address the availability of healthcare systemically and effectively. We carried out a first-ever check on whether health insurance companies are fulfilling their obligation, and on this basis we proposed measures such as monitoring of doctor's ordering deadlines and capacity or electronic examination vouchers. This will enable insurance companies to better ensure the availability of care for their clients. We still want to focus on identifying quality indicators and monitoring them across all kinds of health service providers in the Czech Republic. The long-term problem of Czech health care is the poor organisation of care, which, among other things, is the cause of overloaded hospitals. That is why we have begun a reform that strengthens the role of primary care and increases the competence of practitioners. The aim of the reform is to strengthen practitioners in the system so that they are the gateway of the patient to the healthcare system. The practicer should remove most of the common problems and in really difficult cases the patient should be directed to specialists or hospitals. We believe that this will significantly improve the organization of care for patients and hospitals and specialists. We started one of the most successful IT projects in the state administration - electronic recipe. In just a year, the volume of electronic recipes from zero has reached 100%. We have also managed to promote its key function, a shared drug record of a patient that protects patients from bad drug combinations and the use of several of the same drugs at the same time, which is now responsible for a significant percentage of hospitalization and unfortunately death. We also reform mental health care. We successfully manage to move care from large hospitals to mental health centers, where field workers take care of the patient directly in their home environment and help them return to normal life. We already have seventeen centers, now we have approved four more centers, and by next year we want to have a total of thirty. The goal is to build a network of up to 100 centres in the coming years. In addition, we are creating a network of psychiatric ambulances that will provide comprehensive multidisciplinary care and cooperate closely with practical doctors. This will significantly improve the availability of care for patients with mental problems. Proof that the reform of mental health care is a priority for us is a shift from ministerial to government level, in the form of the establishment of the Mental Health Council. We have prepared the very first concept of urgent care. For the first time, it will have a clear structure and standards. There will be a state-owned network of 15 large urgent revenues at regional level and 80 urgent revenues at district level. Each of them will have medical emergency services. The aim of the new model is to systematically provide care for acute patients. About acute patients in all regions and in the mode of permanent availability - 24 hours, 7 days. The remuneration decree for 2020 envisages almost CZK 2 billion for urgent revenues with a significant financial injection. The DRG Restart project is also very important for us. That's what they've been talking about for decades. So he's going to, yes, for a very long time, and we've accelerated his preparation. We have a clear plan. According to him, all hospitals will be newly reported from 2020 onwards and remuneration will be launched from 2021 onwards. And that's why when health insurance companies have 57 billion reserves on their accounts today, and I figure they're going to be at 60 by the end of the year, of course, they're the reserves for the future. Those are the DRG Restart reserves to straighten out the payments. The aim of the project is to make available a quality classification system that allows objectively to measure and describe the care provided. Not that every hospital gets a different amount of money for the same operation, and no one even knows who it is. As another legislative objective, we take very seriously to increase the availability of drugs in pharmacies. First of all, extended options, like delivering a replacement drug when there's a breakdown in production, and we'll secure a temporary payment. For one thing, we will regulate more the export of medicines originally intended for patients in the Czech Republic, and we will introduce into the third time the so-called allergenic system for the supply of pharmacies, which will ensure that the drug is in the distribution chain that it will be available in any pharmacy in the Czech Republic. It amazes me that no one before us in the Ministry has dealt with this subject either. We strive not only for more available medicines, but also for more accessible medical supplies for patients who are severely ill. This year, an amendment to the law was introduced, which brings a number of newly paid aids that patients had to pay for themselves so far. Insurance companies will spend half a billion extra crowns on aids next year. Another big theme is medical cannabis. This really is a topic that I have been dealing with for a very long time. And what was the man's name? [[He's turning to the Minister of Health.]] I forgot.... [[Minister of Health off microphone: Majzlík]] Mr. Majzlík and his daughter's story. And that was the impulse for me. So it took a long time, even in Israel I tried to get information and we also held a great conference here with the assistance of Israeli doctors, who are already world leaders. So, as of January 1, 2020, we're gonna relieve patients with chronic unsatisfying pain, because we've put up with a 90-percent payment for medical cannabis. Not across the board, as the pirát want, but in rehab. Patients who have so far had to pay large amounts for therapeutic cannabis and thus were economically harder available to them, after the change they will pay a maximum of a few hundred crowns as with other medicines for chronic diseases. However, we are going further on this issue. We push for medicinal cannabis to be exported, and we also want to extend the cultivation licences. We will increase its availability even more and reduce the price. [[12.00 hours]] We are now also working to ensure faster entry of innovative medicines and medicines for rare diseases into reimbursements. We will speed up the administrative process, and we will involve patients in the decision-making process of rare diseases, and we will also assess social factors. The bill will be submitted to the government at the end of the year. In addition, we have prepared and in the House we will now promote an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which introduces transparent rules for elections to health insurance institutions, administrative and supervisory councils. We will also soon send an amendment to the Health Services Act, which reflects current medical needs in health care and introduces regulation of medical services, sets out the definition of patient organizations, mental health centers or regulates previously expressed wishes. Public health is one of the main themes of the Strategic Health 2030 document, a comprehensive strategy for health and health care development that reflects the world trends and challenges that health and society will face in the next decade. By the way, as part of the National Investment Plan, we have the potential to invest in health care 73 billions. I still have tables here - average salary of nurses; you see how it goes, I guess no one can question it, average salary of doctors. [[shows]] So health care is a priority. Let's go to defense now. Today is the NATO summit. The President represents the Czech Republic and, of course, we have obligations within NATO. We have commitments, and they didn't really work in the past. I'll show you the development of the budget here, the chapters. When you look at it, in 2007, the cost of defense was 54 billion, it was 1.6% of GDP, so when we started, 2014, we inherited it, so it dropped by almost 11 billion. And we were at 1.1, okay? No, 11.9 billion. decrease. You can clearly see it going up here. For next year, the increase of de facto 9 billion is year-on-year. Yes, our GDP is rising, so of course we're catching up on GDP, but today it's not real to have 2%. 2 percent today would be 133 billion. So we get there, we make a commitment, 2024, so that's how we inherited it. And, of course, it's important that we make those investments. And that budget increased by 62 percent between 2014 and 2019. The increase in the budget for 2020 to 75,5 billion. is 13 % compared to 2019. In 2021 we want to reach a ratio of 1.4 %, in 2024 2 %, I already said that. The percentage of the budget that goes on investment in new technology is increasing. In 2020, over 18 billion will go to investment, almost a quarter of the budget. As far as purchases are concerned, since January 2019 we have concluded 294 contracts and framework agreements on military equipment, all of which are worth 17 billion. The important ones include e.g. contracts for 62 Armoured Vehicles Titus for 6 billion. or 71 Tatra trucks for 600 miles. and by the end of the year we will sign contracts for further strategic projects for 24 billion, finally 8 mobile MADR radars for 3.5 billion. 30 years after the revolution, we still have Russian radar. So we're finally gonna sign it, she's gonna take about two years to get the van, but of course it's a shame. 12 multipurpose helicopters per 17.5 billion. With VAT, we also still have Russian helicopters in Náměšť nad Oslavou, I was there, it's a horror movie. And we're gonna buy two new CASA planes at 2.5 billion. with VAT and modernization of four of these aircraft for 0.5 billion, which the army already uses. So this year we'll have contracts for more than 40 billion for equipment and equipment. 90 per cent of suppliers are domestic companies. Military contracts thus improve the fighting capacity of the armed forces and at the same time give our companies, our citizens work and money. 2020 we plan a number of agreements with fundamental importance for securing the defence of the Czech Republic and fulfilling our NATO commitments. The security of our citizens is a priority! We see what's happening in the world. We see that we really need our army to have modern technology. The main projects of 2020 are 210 infantry belt combat vehicles. That's a huge job. 50 billion. 52 pieces of NATO-caliber artillery. 15,000. handguns of Czech production and 4 batteries of anti-aircraft rocket assembly SHORAD. As for our soldiers, in 2014, when we started, there were 21,000. Now there's 25,000 of them. And we want to get to the number of 30 thousand. Here you can see the salaries of our soldiers, as we took it from the opposition, 2013 35 thousand, estimated for next year 51 thousand. and even bigger numbers. [[shows the graph again]] So defense is crucial to us. The role of active backups is also growing. We've been recruiting two years ahead of schedule. We already have nearly 3,200 members in active backups. It should be 5,000 in 2025. people and from 2030 to 10 thousand, so 30 thousand. Soldiers, ten thousand. Advances. Czech soldiers - we can really be proud of them - are among the best in foreign missions. They operate in 14 countries on three continents, and their service is really very, very positive. We currently have 700 soldiers in foreign operations, with an approved mandate of 1 191. The mandate is approved by Parliament by 2020 and the Ministry of Defence will submit a draft mandate to the Government and Parliament for 2021 and 2022 in the first half of next year. We do not expect any significant changes compared to the current situation, but, of course, as I have already mentioned, today is the NATO meeting in London, and the relations after what happened in Turkey between the United States and France and others are not entirely ideal and it really needs to be clarified. Today, the individual Heads of Delegation and our President will have about three or four minutes to present his speech there. I will certainly talk about this at the European Council, because, of course, the NATO Member States, the European Member States in terms of Europe's security, it is something other than the security of the United States, Canada or Turkey. Of course, we share common values, but in terms of security, we certainly do not want a European army, but we want to have some cooperation and maybe negotiate with our partners about an amendment that would allow us to do operations without doing the kind of harakiri that was the Sophia operation I visited and where the Italian admiral actually tells me - well now we are NATO - and we went behind the door and we were already Sophia operation. [[12.10 hours]] So the Treaty of the North Atlantic Pact is from April 4, 1949. Of course there were additions, but I think it's a subject. The question is whether NATO is to be a defensive pact, if it is not to change to a pact that can attack international terrorism. I think so. Afghanistan remains the place of the greatest deployment - 325 of our soldiers, and of course the situation in the country is complex. We follow the principle: together we come, together we leave. Our soldiers, of course, also operate in the Baltics. I'm flying to Estonia on Tuesday and visiting our fighters. Our mission is there by the end of the year as part of the Air Policy mission with the Gripens. We have 155 of our fighters in total. We have 120 people in Mali and are preparing in 2020 to take command of the mission. In Iraq, 40 people. We train chemists and military police officers. And in Sinai, where I was with ours, they're really praised by everyone, we've had a Casa transport plane for six years. So defense, yes, we made a commitment, and now it's clear. Environment. As we did the press conferences with Mr Brabc before we left for Madrid, young Fridays for Future wrote to me - I called them several times that we would be happy to explain to them what we are doing to save our planet. We care about our planet, and we do enough. So I'm looking forward to the meeting. Mr. Brabec and Mr. Havlíček will be there. And we just have clear plans, but it's not possible to turn everything off from one day to the next, and I guess that would be a big problem. So climate protection is a priority for us and everything related to it - both reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to the effects of climate change. And we know that climate change is here and that it needs to be dealt with urgently. The Czech Republic is fulfilling its climate commitments under the Paris Agreement and the EU's climate policy. We reduce coal mining, prepare to shut down coal power plants, increase the share of energy produced from renewable sources, increase the energy efficiency of houses, flats, services, do our best, invest in climate protection. Investment in climate protection is and will be huge in the coming years. On Monday in Madrid, we discussed this with the President of the European Commission, and Poland calculated it, carbon neutrality, in order of 100 billion. The euro, and I was talking about about about 20-25 billion. The euro, which is about 625 billion, is simply because these two countries have a huge industry, and that is why we are different from when they speak at the climate conference - alongside me was Prince Albert of Monaco or the Prime Minister of Andorra or the Cook Islands or Luxembourg. Yes, that's not comparable. What is important is that Europe cannot be alone in its efforts. The EU has about 9 percent share of global emissions, and in 2017 it was China's third largest producer, which is 27 percent, and the United States is 16 percent. 4th place is India with almost 7 percent of global emissions, 5th place. Russia, which has almost 5%. These five largest polluters are responsible for almost two thirds of all global CO2 emissions. In the EU, Germany is the largest producer of CO2 with a share of global emissions of around 2,2 percent. The Czech Republic, together with other EU Member States, undertook to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990. Between 1990 and 2017, the Czech Republic reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by around 35 percent and the EU decreased its emissions by 22 percent over the same period. So we're going ahead. According to current emission projections, the Czech Republic will meet its commitments within the EU by 2020 and 2030. Thus, the threat to the climate is primarily a lax approach by countries like China or the United States - the largest greenhouse gas producers - and so far it does not seem like they intend to change that. On the contrary. China has announced that it will invest in huge coal-fired power plants, which are about the same capacity as the whole of Europe. So China, Vietnam, India, Africa - they all go the other way. We must and our countries must prepare for the effects of climate change, which, of course, can be very sensitive. After all, we have been dealing with extreme drought for the last five years, which is one of the effects of climate change. We take adaptation to climate change very seriously, although the measures may not be so attractive for the media and they are much less talked about than the measures to reduce CO2 in the atmosphere. Measures aimed at building sources of drinking water, returning water to the landscape or reducing energy performance in households and offices are crucial. A number of key strategic documents have been adopted under the influence of this and previous government, and a whole range of concrete steps have been taken in the area of climate protection, which determine the objectives and priorities of the Czech Republic. As regards the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the government adopted a climate protection policy in the Czech Republic on a proposal from Minister Brabec in 2017. We have it as one of the smaller states in the EU, and it defines exactly how we are reducing and how we will reduce CO2 emissions in the coming years. In addition to the 2020 and 2030 targets based on the EU climate-energy package and the Paris Agreement, climate protection policy also contains for the first time a long-term indicative target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80 per cent by 2050 compared to 1990. Since 2000, almost 110 billion European funds, emission trading revenues and the state budget have been spent on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The crown, please. One hundred and ten billion crowns since 2000! The key emission reduction measure will continue to be a reformed emission allowance trading system, which should lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by a further 6 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Continued support for measures to reduce the energy performance of industry and buildings should bring further emission reductions by approximately 3.5 million. tonnes. In transport, new emission limits negotiated in Europe for passenger and freight cars should contribute the most to reducing emissions, which should lead to a reduction of emissions by more than 1.5 million in the Czech Republic's conditions. Tonnes up to 2030. In the Czech Republic, this will, of course, promote clean mobility, electromobility, CNG cars or hydrogen technologies, both in passenger transport and in public. Already in support of net mobility, the Ministry of Environment, MMR and the Ministry of Industry supported the purchase of 1,200 electric cars for municipalities, regions and entrepreneurs and 950 CNG buses and 160 electric buses, i.e. more than 1,100 pure-powered buses. By 2020, 1,200 electric car chargers will be supported with a plan to have twenty thousand chargers by 2030. By promoting renewable sources and highly efficient cogeneration, emissions can be reduced by an additional 3.5 million. tonnes. In industry, emission limits and applications of best available technologies, which should reduce emissions by approximately 2.7 million by 2030, should contribute most to reducing emissions. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. [[12.20 hours]] The regulation of fluorinated greenhouse gases, which should lead to a further reduction of emissions by approximately 2 million, should also be significantly reflected. tonnes. In the waste sector, greenhouse gas emissions have so far increased and their reduction will depend on the rate of landfill reduction, and we expect a ban on landfilling by 2030. Of course, it will still be the subject of negotiations on new waste laws. It seems quite long to me, but it will be the subject of debate. Climate protection policy and state energy concepts also envisage the gradual closure of coal-fired power plants. It is only a question of when it will be, because of course we must provide citizens with heat and electricity supply. So shutting down coal power plants at once is, of course, nonsense and utopia. Minister Brabec and Minister Havlíček are now acting under the so-called the coal commission on the so-called a fade out of coal, i.e. a diversion from coal. For example, the German Coal Commission agreed in 2038 and the Commission is here to investigate whether something like this is real in our country. However, of course, other concrete measures are taking place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in addition to reducing coal mining and use. It is a promotion of heating, energy saving and greener heating. CO2 emissions are also significantly reduced by boiler subsidies. In the last three years alone, we've switched to 70 grand. old boilers, thanks to which we improve not only air condition and quality, but also reduce CO2 emissions. The target is to exchange at least 100 thousand. boilers. A hundred thousand replaced domestic boilers will save 800 thousand by 2021. tons of CO2 and 4 GJ energy per year. The very successful project of the Ministry of Environment is New Green Savings, directed directly to households, which is considered the best heating programme in Central and Eastern Europe; reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1.4 million. tonnes of CO2 per year. With regard to climate change preparedness, all adaptation steps have already been started by Minister Brabec during his entire work at the Ministry of Environment. The proposed adaptation strategy was adopted in 2015. This strategy was added in 2017 by the National Climate Change Action Plan in the Czech Republic, which contains 52 specific priority measures, respectively. 160 priority tasks in the area of adaptation. Currently, they are working intensively to evaluate and update these documents. The vulnerability of the Czech Republic to climate change has been assessed as high, especially in the area of flooding, increasing average temperature and long-term drought. These three key impacts of climate change are and will be primarily targeted by adaptation measures. We are really dedicated to the most sensitive expression of climate change in the Czech Republic, and that is drought. We have established a National Coalition for the fight against drought, where we discuss appropriate measures and practical steps of the state with relevant ministers, experts and colleagues from practice. We have prepared a big amendment to the water law, which gives the state, regions and municipalities completely new instruments for the dry season. We also focus on adaptation to climate change and on preventing its effects in grant policy. The Ministry of Environment and Agriculture has invested 40 billion in the drought adaptation project since 2014. Crowns. The Ministry of Environment focuses mainly on water management projects in households and municipalities and on strengthening landscape functions. Since 2014, 14 thousand have been implemented. projects across the Czech Republic for 11 billion. and the subsidy programmes continue to strengthen financially and will also be strengthened next year. 400 municipalities and over 200 thousand. people are newly connected to drinking water sources for this year and last year alone. Minister Brabec launched the Rainbow program for citizens, where he has already started 6,000. households have new rainwater storage tanks or a grey water management system. A similar program was launched by the Ministry for municipalities. It focuses on underground tanks, on the collection of precipitation water used for public use, green roofs of public buildings, water permeable surfaces, inspiration belts at the parking lot or on the treatment of watercourses flowing through municipalities or various water elements, flood protection as a safety spill of dams, dry and semi-dry cops or leaking or retention tanks. We focus on planting greenery and water elements in the landscape, such as alleys, ponds, pools, marshes, biobands on agricultural land, meanders of rivers and streams. Over 5,000 have already been done in the last few years. projects in the landscape. Currently, the Ministry of Environment has allocated 1.5 billion. for projects of the State Land Office in the countryside. In the context of landscaping, the restoration of the field road supports the fertileisation of agricultural land, the construction of water and corrosion elements. Of course, measures to reduce CO2 emissions and adaptation measures will continue in the next year. We will plant billions of seedlings, deciduous and coniferous trees in the next 20 years to restore damaged forests and 10 miles. deciduous trees outside the forest within a project with the Partnership Foundation, in which everyone can participate. And I think people enjoy it, they go to families, great events and what the Forests of the Czech Republic did. So it's a total volume of 40 billion. For boiler subsidies and cauldron loans, the Ministry's budget is prepared for the next year 4.9 billion. Crowns. For new water supply, new sources of drinking water, water treatment and feeder, programme Dešťovka, for households is prepared in the chapter of the Ministry of Education 3 billion. Crowns. In order to reduce energy performance, the Ministry has 4.7 billion. Crowns. Finally, more than a billion crowns are prepared to adapt the landscape to drought, water in the landscape and greenery in the cities. So the environment, the concern for our planet, clearly our priority. In this government's programming statement, we took sport as one of the priorities. We've forgotten about the sport since the revolution. This social phenomenon has been supported by the state for many years from the corner of the Ministry of Education. And I'm not gonna say anywhere else. Thanks to the totally opaque system of distribution of subsidies to sport by the state, our sport has not been famous in recent years for the victory of hockey players or our Olympics, but for the corruption of the entire sports environment, and especially the smallest clubs, children, talented youngsters and coaches, with almost no financial support. Thanks to the parliamentary initiative and the broad consensus of the sports environment and consequently the significant support of the Chamber of Deputies - and we thank you for this - there has been an amendment to the Sport Support Act, which has been established since August since this year by the National Sports Agency. No, it's not a flower or a money line, as some who don't want to call it. It is a clearly defined entity of the public administration system with a fixed competence. The National Sports Agency will take care of the promotion of sport in the Czech Republic, will develop and coordinate a plan of state policy in sport, provide financial support from the state budget and create conditions for the sport of children, youth and their coaches, for sport for all, including representatives and disabled citizens. To this end, the Agency will provide the sports environment with financial support from the state budget and will monitor the use of this aid consistently. The Agency will be much better than before to promote Czech sport and our promising athletes, even with the help of better coordination of the activities of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Defence and Ministry of the Interior. In 2011, the state lottery company Sazka crashed. It was by then that it had not completely effectively distributed the resources to promote sport. Since 2013, when the funds gradually started to be distributed directly from the state budget, the amounts of funding from the state budget started to increase to support Czech sport. In general terms, the increase in sports support can be illustrated by numbers, and I became Minister of Finance in 2014, because I myself like sport, so I started with a budget of 2 billion. 980 miles. Crowns. For next year, it's 7.2 billion. Crowns. I think sport is very important, and it is a pity that we do not have such a university sport as it is in the United States, for example. So the increase over this period is a total of 141 percent. [[12.30 hours]] We strongly support and continue to support in particular the My Club programme, which means money for all sports clubs in the Czech Republic that request it. There has also been a significant increase in aid since the creation of this programme. In 2016, it was just over 300 miles. and is prepared five times for 2020. That means five times what was four years ago, that's 1.5 billion. Of course, then is the support of those who devote themselves to our talents, help them search for new motivation, the desire to train and fight for themselves and for their club, those who build a sense of fair play in our children and an honest approach to training, and these are our coaches. Even now, even in the future, it will not be forgotten about the disabled, for which sport is often one of the few possibilities of further self-realization and social application. For all of these, and not just for them, we will be putting more resources into sports, because we want all our children to have fun moving, sports and enjoying it and feeling good about it not being on Facebook all the time. And then there are investments in the construction of sports halls, swimming pools, winters and other sports grounds. The overall situation in the sport infrastructure is not satisfactory and we need to improve it substantially. The development of sport infrastructure has a strong impact not only on the development of sport itself, but also on recreation, social cohesion, integration and education. Sporting is an integrator of many needs that not only bring society together, but also strengthen it and strengthen it. These investments significantly help not only the local economy in the form of orders for local companies, but also the entire national economy in the form of taxes and levies. When we talk about how we fail to keep people in low-populated and rural homes, sport and its availability, including sports infrastructure, are often one of the solutions to improve and improve people's lives in remote places. Sport infrastructure is catastrophically obsolete in the Czech Republic. The Czech Union of Sport as one of the largest roofing organizations states that the average age of sports infrastructure in the Czech Republic is almost 50 years old. Fifty years! Unbelievable. Most currently used sports facilities were built before 1989. It is necessary for this situation to change and sports facilities and sports infrastructure to undergo modernization and to obtain parameters corresponding to current requirements and standards. The same is true of trends that need to be reflected in sports, because they are expected by both athletes professionals and children and coaches. I am well informed that representatives of the National Sports Agency, including representatives of the Ministry of Education, are still negotiating with the Association of Local Authorities, with the Association of Towns and Municipalities and with the Association of Regions on the needs of mutual cooperation with cities and regions in order to significantly increase investment in sports areas throughout the Czech Republic. Maybe you're asking why. Well, because the only thing that came out here in 30 years in the field of sport is the O2 Arena in Vysočany, which unfortunately, when it comes to its financing, in Sazka's time, certainly didn't enjoy good reputation for its leadership, but thank God we have it, otherwise I don't know what we'd do in Prague where we'd organize all those events. Adding to this the multifunctional halls in Karlovy Vary, Liberec, Třinc, where private investors contributed to it, this is all we can say from larger investment in sports infrastructure that has stood up and fulfilled its purpose perfectly. As early as 2016, the volumes of funding directed towards investment in sport infrastructure also increased significantly in connection with the increase in overall support for sport. In overall terms, the increase in sport support can be illustrated by the following overview: 2010 - investment subsidies were 620 million, for 2020 it is CZK 2, 214 175 000, which means almost four times in ten years. In 2021, the construction of national centres of Olympic sports is expected, both summer and winter sports - in Nymburk, Harrachov, as well as a multifunctional sports hall in Jihlava, Olomouc, Kladno and Zlín. This should be the start of the construction of the athletic hall complex in Brno or the completion of the Vysočina arena in Nové Město na Moravě should take place. In Prague, there should be a gymnastics hall of the resort sports centre of the Ministry of the Interior and other projects are planned, such as jumping bridges in Frenštát pod Radhoštěm or water canal in Račice. Of course, I'm always laughing at the opposition about the speed skating hall. Yes, I have discussed this several times with Mr Novák, Coach Martina Sáblíková, unfortunately, not even a place in Brno fit him, Nové Město na Moravě - there doesn't want a biathlon, now one of our regions is supposed to be involved, so if it turns out, the state will definitely want to support this project. The total amount of planned investments in halls, sports facilities and sports centres is expected to start in 2020-2020, and 2022 amounts to almost 15 billion. As proof that we are serious about the promotion of sport, it is possible to mention the recently approved government support for three major sporting events - the Judo European Championship in 2020 and the two European Championships, basketball and volleyball, in 2021. For that, we released a total amount of 155 miles as government. In addition, basketball and volleyball events will be a dignified celebration of 100 years of these sports in the Czech Republic, especially in Czechoslovakia, so the sport definitely for us - finally, the athletes wanted the agency, so they have it. Well, let's hope it lasts a long time after us, that other governments will support it. What we are often criticized for is transport, investment. I already talked about it. It lasts forever, unfortunately. But we've already come to the realization. This is a project of railway connection of Prague - Ruzyně airport and Kladno. [[He's pointing.]] That's what they've been talking about for a long time. Everyone's promised it. It's been talked about for decades. And we had a presentation at the airport, we were showing this project. There are clear synergies. As the airport wants to invest in the next railway and terminal, it is to be finished in 2028, so we want the centre of Prague to be connected to the railway network by 2028. We will also modernize the railway line to Kladno by the same date. This means we will ensure safe and reliable operation of the railway. We will ensure a shorter travel time by train from Prague to Kladno for 30 minutes, and passengers from the city centre will also reach the airport in 30 minutes. We will zoom in on the train interval of the metro, trains towards Kladno and the direction of the airport will ride in peak every ten minutes. We will set up bus lines on trains, build large terminals at Dlouhá Míli near the line to Kladno. Thanks to this, he will take the train to the airport and to Kladno 63 thousand. people every day. The whole connection is divided into nine separate buildings by SŽDC. The first of the constructions started in 2017. It's a reconstruction of Negrelli's viaduct. It is an important cultural monument, the second oldest Prague bridge over the Vltava River from 1849. The bridge now passes through the sanitization of the arches and, if necessary, by rescinding them so as to allow safe operation for decades to come. The trains are gonna hit him right on MDD 1. 6. 2020. The starting point of the connection will be the Prague Masaryk Railway Station. This will be extended to other tracks and above all will get a new eastern vestibule in the form of a platform above the railway yard, which will reduce walking distance for the inhabitants of Prague. [[12.40 hours]] From Masaryk Railway Station the trains will head through the Drums towards Dejvice, the whole section from Stromovka via Dejvice to Veleslavín will be placed in the tunnel so that the track does not bother the inhabitants of Prague with noise and to remove the barrier that the railway now creates. It will continue through Liboc and Ruzyni to the terminal of suburban transport Dlouhá Mile. The route ends at the airport directly under the planned extension of Terminal 2 with direct connection to the airport hall. Newly, passengers from the airport and the airport will reach a conveniently direct connection to the center of Prague. Prague will join a number of European cities that have connections to the international airport provided by comfortable, reliable, fast, ecological and safe rail transport. The line to Kladno will turn in Ruzyně and lead the current track through Hostivice and Pavlov. Both lines will be two-track, electrified, equipped with modern ETCS signalling equipment. Yes, it will cost money, a lot of money, a lot, 43 billion, but we've been talking about it for 20 or 30 years. Too škoda we didn't talk about it right after the revolution. So this is the connection of the Prague-Airport-Kladno. And I'll remind you again that investment is a priority for us, that now that I've been criticized on TV that the SFDI budget is bad, that budget is always built, it has some basis, and that's the blue line. [[He's pointing.]] And that base for next year is 87.3 billion, it's more than in 2019. And the orange ones, they're gradual modifications, all year round. So in 2019 we started with a budget of 86.3, but we already made an additional budget increase of 15.3 billion. And we've already got 6.1 in 2020, and it's gonna go up. So it would be good to actually talk about how such a budget works and how it is gradually being adjusted, and of course these are priorities. Here I have the most famous D1 motorway. [[It shows again.]] Minister Šimonovský told us, now I don't know which year it was, 2005 or when, that it will actually be the sixth lane and that it will be done 2010. Nothing happened. We were wondering if we could fix it and if we didn't, the highway would fall apart. It's a new investment, not a fix. Well, it's a new 160 km, 160 km, and it's going to cost us 26,6 billion. So I apologize to everyone we make life miserable, but somebody had to do it. And we're getting better. Now it was the first snow, so the Czech TV was waiting to see how much trouble it would be. They waited all day and nothing happened. That's a D1 upgrade. Red is the building started, green is the open highway. [[He's pointing.]] We have that separately. Now we've finally figured out the overtaking of the trucks everyone's been calling for, but that's just the beginning. This is the construction of highways. The opposition still curses us that we opened 3.8 km in 2018. So when the average period of construction of the motorway - I tried to explain it, but of course who doesn't want to hear it, it doesn't - unfortunately it takes 13 years. So I'm just asking when someone's criticizing us for what we were supposed to open when the demo block didn't start anything here: 2001 - start zero, 2012 - start zero, 2013 - start 800 meters, 2014 - start zero. We boarded and weren't bought out or land, nothing was designed. Minister Bárta just walled the whole thing up. We remember Mrs. Havránková. Maybe if someone normal treated her, it didn't take 19 years. So it's clear today. Started - this is for us - 2015 and 2020 we will start 92 km and 2021 53.4. But of course it's also necessary to tell ourselves what's going on against us, the brake, the legislation, the crazy building bill, which, I must say, 2016 didn't work out, unfortunately. So it's a priority for us. It is a priority for us, and of course we are trying to improve the legislation. The government passed November 25th, now, Linen Law. - Madam Secretary's here. I can be done in a minute. [[Secretary of Finance Schiller enters the hall.]] - November 25th. And that law will reduce the preparation time by about one third of the current 13 years, thanks to the fact that transport construction will be placed and permitted in a single procedure and fixed deadlines will be introduced. So it's a three-year cut. A uniform binding opinion on the intention of the buildings for which an environmental impact assessment has been made will be newly issued with a single binding opinion replacing all administrative acts issued under the Nature and Landscape Act. Acceleration up to a year. Establishment of a fixed deadline for issuing binding opinions for a maximum period of 30 days. Setting a specific deadline for issuing expropriation decisions - the authorities will have 60 days from the start of the expropriation process and will subsequently be a 30-day period for issuing the decision. The National Geoportal of Territorial Planning is to be created. So the main tool of the Line Act for speeding up transport constructions is to shorten by three years. Well, of course, we're looking at a recodification. It's not even really out there yet, and there's a lot of resistance. Please, I'm so glad that the government's minority government, but we all agree here that we want the core. I think we also agree that we want to build quickly, so I would very much like to have the recodification together - and we are ready to do this, certainly Minister Dostálová - dealt with and considered for and against and have it explained. Now I've organized a meeting with Secretary Dostálová and our club and our captains, because there's been a bit of a delay in the communication, and clearly the people concerned don't have enough information. So we need to do better, we need to communicate better, we need to explain. It's just so important. And that's what's totally ruining our rankings. We have excellent results, and here we are a complete disaster, 157th place. Horror! So it's very important, and let's try to work it out together, not at first, what we're going to come up with that's wrong. Toll system. We were all haunted, and I don't know if anything happened - did something happen? Nothing happened. We're raising money. We competed a new myth by 13 billion. cheaper than the current one, it's not really the current one - the former Kapsch. So now we have a toll of 1,240 km of highways and 230 km of first-class roads, 1,470 km. In 2019 we choose 11 billion for myth. 250 miles. From 1 January 2020, the next 868 km of first-class roads will be added, and, as I said, the sharp operation of the toll system has been launched and the various catastrophic scenarios have not been fulfilled. [[12.50 hours]] I don't want to talk much longer. The important thing is that we have passed the Road Transport Act, the conditions for taxi service. I've dealt with it, especially with our Uber taxis' complaints. And another one. High-speed lines, so-called VRT. Well, it is a pity that the European Union, when we entered and started talking about it in 2002, did not come up with it. Perhaps we could already have connected Berlin - Prague - Brno - Vienna - Bratislava - Budapest - Warsaw. But unfortunately, we've had a bit of a sleepover, so the first high-speed lines will start to be built in 2025. The first sections will be Prague - Běchovice - Poříčany - Přerov - Ostrava. Currently, a feasibility study on drills Prague - Brno - Břeclav, Prague - Dresden, Brno - Přerov - Ostrava is being prepared. We are preparing the pilot project VRT in the section Praha - Běchovice - Říčany. And the principles of development of regions of South Moravian, Olomouc, Moravian-Silesian for pilot sections of VRT are updated. What's important is we're fixing the station. That's where it's going. Overall, 102 railway stations for 1.2 billion are reconstructed or reconstructed, such as Prague, Havířov, Břeclav, Přerov, in Kuřimi, Sokolov and Lipník nad Bečvou. In addition to the reconstruction itself, there is also an offer of unused railway stations. Total The Railway Infrastructure Administration will spend 8,4 billion on repairs between 2017 and 2022. Also important - and we saw the tragedies at the level crossings. So now we have a clear plan. We're now dealing with 41 crossings in 250 miles. crowns, to really minimize the tragedies that have happened. The whole family stayed there recently, it's a real disaster. So that's what we're planning to do. And I'm just gonna get back to you on the recodification. Because it is little known, but here I have examples from ŘSD - the purpose of blocking the preparation of buildings by various civic associations. So if I take the D49 Hulín-Fryšták, the construction was to be built in 2010. Due to the endless judicial proceedings and appeals against all administrative acts, no building permit is yet available. Nine years is waiting for a building permit. Říkovice-Přerov - again attacking all administrative decisions, we must have new opinions, two and a half years delay. D1 - there was also over 400 days delay. Bypass Mikulov - this is really unique. 800 pages of opposition to the zoning decision issued, 240 pages by civil associations, 15 months without the response of the appeal body. The territorial decision shall not be final. And Prague, road circuit Prague, which is to build the state. So, due to the systemic bias of Prague, the Uhříněvsi office is handling this. There are two employees, and they're dealing with this key investment. Nothing against them. But, of course, the new law should deal with this. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's not released, and it's expected to take a long time. Ostrava - Extended Rudná - five years blocked construction due to material burden. And so on. So the things they're holding back are too much, and that's why the recodification is extremely important. So in conclusion, I just want to say that this draft budget is very good, it's for investment, it's for people, we're pumping money into the economy, low deficit, we're reducing debt, we're really increasing all the items. And I believe that even the Minister will explain it better than I do, and of course I would like to ask for the support of this budget. Madam Secretary has been so busy with this for a whole year. So let's hope that they convince you and that we will successfully approve the budget for the people, for our country, for our future today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u3	Thank you. We will continue with the applications of those who have priority rights before the opening word of the petitioner and the opening of the debate. It's President Bartoš's turn. I am just warning the President that at 13:00 I will interrupt him according to the agreement on how the Chamber of Deputies will proceed today. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Mr President. I'm going to split the four minutes, or my commentary on the budget, into two parts, because the Prime Minister here has been talking for almost three hours, so he's done a little digging up the morning program, but so be it. I was quite surprised that the opening of the budget debate, the Prime Minister, made some comments on his cases. It illustrates actually how the Czech Republic works. Instead of proudly presenting this government plan for the following period and the investment plan for the following period, we are listening to where Mr Babiš is, who is in dispute and what is going on. It bothers me - and I don't think it's because the Prime Minister has any bad information, or someone didn't prepare the material - that I mind when the Prime Minister lies about some things in public and slanders other people. And that's what happened. You may remember his recent statement about the president of the Czech Medical Chamber, who he claimed bought a house for 150 million, and things like that. That's not what happened in the House. But there was a criticism of the current Senator Lukáš Wagenknecht. I remember when Mr. Babiš, who declared that he would fight corruption, led him to press conferences and exhibited him as the best person to control and fight corruption. And Mr. Wagenknecht found out that at the Ministry of Regional Development there is Tesco software, a problem project worth half a billion, over half a billion. And when this audit, which was carried out by the auditors of the Ministry of Finance and subsequently confirmed by the European Commission, showed that it was really a mess - and that was still what Mr Babiš wanted to have the audit checked by his private lawyers - the government decided to take the money. And the Ministry of Regional Development caused damage to 800 million crowns. That was certainly not Mr Wagenknecht, who, of course, Mr Andrej Babiš, when he found out that Lukáš Wagenknecht really wanted to fight corruption, he fired. Nor is it true that taxpayers would have paid some 30 billion in previous periods. I'm talking to the Treasury Secretary, Mrs. Schillerová, who still hasn't given me the information I demand. 24 billion of this has been recovered and used for other projects within the framework of, for example, the ROPs. Subsequently, some, such as transport constructions, were actually taken into the national budget by the government. There's some 7 to 11 billion flying by my calculations. But it's up to the Treasury to recover this money from companies and companies that just didn't meet the conditions for granting the subsidy. So that's another thing that's been said here and it's not true. [[13.00 hours]] It really bothers me this way, when the Prime Minister starts his every performance by dehonesting his political competitors, oppositions, or even his former co-workers, it is not just the case of Mr Lukáš Wagenknecht, and then we listen here for three hours as he does everything best. Paradoxic is that he ends up telling the previous governments before he joined Mr Sobotka's government as Minister of Finance. There is such a vacuum, we do not return much to that time when he was the Minister of Finance, when he had under him the Ministry of Regional Development as Chairman of the ANO movement, when at that time he had the most successful Minister of Transport, then less successful, then the most successful Mr Took, and we see some graphs showing how we are compared to 1990. That's 30 years. And I would just like to remind the Prime Minister that he is already part of the government of the Czech Republic, apart from the short period when Mr Sobotka resigned from his position as Minister of Finance, so he is six years old at the moment, so much of the revolutionary development before he joined politics is already on his shirt and on his ministry in which he worked. It is one hour, I would like to comment on the budget in the second part of my speech, to speak really to the point, not as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u5	Yes. I note that because of the lunch break, we are interrupting negotiations in the middle of President Bartoš's speech, which will continue at 14.30. Let me read the apologies. Mr Krejza apologizes from 12.00 to 19.00 for personal reasons. Mr Josef Hájek apologizes from 14.30 to 17.00 because of the meeting and Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar today until the end of the meeting day due to the planned foreign trip. I state that the meeting of the Organizing Committee will take place at 13.06. We will meet again here at 14.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the afternoon stand for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We are on the agenda of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, the House Press 605, the third reading. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We interrupted the speech of President Ivan Bartoš, who performed with priority rights. If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, I'll read one apology. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes between 14.30 and midnight for personal reasons. Mr. Chairman, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Mr President. I could follow up on the part that was this morning, but it's called Now, I'd like to focus on the part that concerns the budget, and I'd like to point out here why the budget is bad. Because the politics that the government of Andrej Babiš is doing at the moment is wrong. I could also talk here for a very long time about the different chapters of the budget, but I will not do it as Prime Minister. Let's get some pure wine. The state budget, as proposed by YES, is the budget of inertia. It is created by taking the last year's budget, copying it, seeing what changes are needed in tax policy, how the economy is growing, and then simply increasing the chapters where it hurts or what is bothering people. We're dealing with crustworms -- as Mr. Babiš says, we're gonna put the money in there, and something's gonna happen. The budget has no vision, and it doesn't even support that weird document Mr. Andrej Babiš has been waving around here for a few months, but it's still not finished, the investment plan. If we vote on the budget here today, we won't vote on the budget. Basically, we are voting on whether we are satisfied with the policy of the government that runs the Czech Republic, with the policy of the government YES, the ČSSD with the support of the communists. That is what we are really going to vote on today. And if I remove myself from the fact that this country is once again being led by a criminally prosecuted prime minister in an enormous conflict of interest, then let's look at how this government manages what the supposed vision and proper governance of the state is. This is reflected in the way in which the budget is drawn up, especially on the revenue page. This government has become accustomed to the fact that there are a number of bottomless pockets in the Czech Republic, in companies, in citizens, in various reserves, and has become accustomed to using these resources as one-off revenues to pay for the practical operation of the Czech Republic. The real investment share in the budget - and that is the question of whether these projects will even be implemented - is very low. If you look at things that were also resonating in the Senate today, where, while Prime Minister Babiš was talking about his government not raising taxes, Minister Schillerová was in the Senate defending a tax package where taxes are rising, there was a criticism that I think is really essential: the budget is counting on revenue pages with things that are not even approved yet. I'd like to mention the delay in the VAT refund to the companies. That's where the government, as an accountant, takes some 16 billion. into the state budget and in the budget of individual cities and municipalities and municipalities there are another 8 billion. We saw in the budget the chapter of the expected income tax on digital taxes - 2.1 billion. in the next year's budget. The bill hasn't even been to the House yet. And if we were very optimistic, it wouldn't be until 2021, and that would be the law. It doesn't say at all whether these firms will be willing to pay one of the highest taxes proposed by this government at the moment. And I could go on like this. When we talk about where this government is taking money for its policy without a vision, we were already witnessing this year, when basically money, which was intended for specific purposes, from dividends and from the activities of state enterprises and companies, for example from ČEZ, was basically included in the budget. So revenue e.g. from ČEZ this year they are a standard item in the revenue side of the state budget and the money is no longer linked to investments or to the removal of disasters or environmental impacts. I heard Mr. Andrej Babiš here talking about his achievements, and I mentioned in the previous part how he completely forgot about the four years when he had the ministry that criticized here, whether it was the MMR, which therefore made the shoe, when it competed the wrong system, which he now attributed as a mistake to Senator Wagenknecht, but it was the Ministry of Transport and others. And when we talk about someone painting something pink, it's not the opposition that criticizes Mr. Babiš for not doing large infrastructure construction. Even the few kilometers, about 3.8 or 4.2, the number just came out of my head, which is coming from the SAO's report. What does pink painting look like? You start repairing the existing D1 motorway and you show that you're building a new highway, and you're not ashamed to say that in public media and in interviews. Someone keeps calling me, "What do you have against this Andrej Babiš?" After all, he's added 900 crowns to the elderly this year. And it's not like that! All of us in the Chamber of Deputies have approved an increase in pensions of CZK 200, and the 700 crowns are automatically increased according to the valorisation mechanism as our economy grows. And I could go on like this. Here, in almost three hours, until that press conference, Deputy Zeman, there was literally a lot of lies and untruths in mastering other people's work and manipulation. I think the Czech Republic deserves a clear vision. Not some potential, a plan, some budget that's just flicked every year for what's coming out of the polls, that people are most interested in or where they miss it. I would like the budget to say where the Czech Republic will be in the outlook in two years, in four years, in five years. From this point of view, the budget and the related documentation are truly a mental wasteland, and it speaks of the style of Andrej Babiš and ČSSD. And I repeat again what I said in the beginning. Let's get some pure wine. We will not vote here on the budget, or we will not vote on the budget for the following year, but indeed this vote is a vote on whether we are satisfied with the government of Andrej Babiš, YES and social democracy with the support of the communists, whether we are satisfied with where it leads this country. The pirates are not satisfied with this, so we will not support the draft budget for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u8	There. I would just like to say that I have applications for de facto, but she is not open to debate. So it is now only priority rights before the debate is opened. So now I'm gonna ask for a replacement, and then Secretary Schillerová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u9	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u10	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We will not support the proposed state budget for 2020, as it does not contain sufficient SPD priorities and our voters. Moreover, it continues to indebt our Republic in a very significant way. Worse still, the government's proposed budget does not even contain the priorities of a large part of our citizens. The members of the SPD therefore tabled several amendments concerning completely nonsensical expenditures that the government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM are promoting, for example, for inclusion or for political nonprofits or subsidies to solar barons. The SPD does not agree with these expenses, but the government is promoting them. These state expenditures are merely an illustration of the state's financing of literally harmful projects. We also propose cuts in the Šabatová Ombudsman's office. It is probably the only way to remind her more strongly that her job is to help decent working citizens, not those who are harming them. It is probably pointless to repeat several fundamental general facts about correct budgeting. First of all, it is not so important how much money is going, but how much money is being used effectively, because it is clear that in many resorts, in many areas, less money would be more useful and more work. Of course, what would be worth an increase is, on the other hand, investment in projects that would bring income to the State in the future. We also count on investment the substantial strong financial support of normal working families, because every decently raised child who will work in the future is a completely undisputed source of income for the state. No investment to motivate decent citizens to have children is big enough. But the budget lacks considerable help from working families with children. There is no doubt that the financial support of working people or those who have worked their way, which means the corresponding salaries of police officers, firefighters, soldiers, teachers, social workers, but also of janitors or medical staff, and other and many of the necessary professions. Here too, investment returns both in the satisfaction of citizens and in the higher turnover of the entire economy. We propose to increase money, for example, to prevent crime. That too is an investment, because the lowest damage is the one that didn't happen. There are many things that the state needs to secure, but the government of the YES, CSSD and KSČM forgets about it. As is known, the budget is drawn up by the government and it is not the task of opposition parties to draw up parallel budgets. Our task is to point out partial shortcomings and propose partial changes. And we've been proposing one system change in vain for years. The change involves in-depth audits of the expenditure of all beneficiaries of the state budget money. In part, such audits are actually carried out at random by the Supreme Audit Office, and in fact, we all know that there isn't a resort where it doesn't reveal waste or even robberies. The reaction is usually denial and contradiction of results and, of course, mostly ignorance of results, and this is linked to the de facto irresponsibility of the damage caused. In this respect, I hope that a certain shift will bring about a law on the strengthening of direct responsibility for the management of public money and property that passed here in the House on a proposal from the SPD last week. And as needed in-depth audits, this was confirmed by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová herself in an interview for the Parliamentary Leaves that I read, I believe, 14 days ago, when she confirmed to my unkind surprise what the SPD required, that she said she didn't know how much and where it was paid to political nonprofits. Even the secretary said that she had assigned individual ministers to even ask for proof of the money so that they would even ask if they had invoices for it. Is that how they run the government? And I'm just pointing out that Secretary Schillerová's predecessor was Andrej Babiš for four years. So we see the state in which the Treasury is left behind, that essentially after six years of governance, it doesn't have to stand up to who and how much is paid to the so-called nonprofit sector. Well, he's actually very profitable for those who work there, of course, because statistics say most of the money always goes to their salaries. But I just wanted to say that the secretary herself confirms the SPD program that he's just in the government's money, when I say it squeaky or straight, it's just a mess. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we have the same comments from experts who point out that the budget does not count on the expected significant deterioration of economic conditions abroad, which would lead to lower economic growth in the Czech Republic than the projected level of 2,2 percent. With the growth of the Czech economy weaker than that level of 2,2 percent, there would be a serious risk that the deficit would be deeper than the "only" 40 billion, because the government is currently proposing to indebt the Czech Republic by another 40 billion. As far as the accounting deficit is concerned, developments can be expected. The next year is going to be a strong election, and I know that the government's budget is actually set up to make a miracle, save, and end up in the election year thanks to its, in quotes, amazing work and savings without a deficit. And even if the actual deficit were, it would correct some miraculous shifts in accounts, and the lay public will stare at how successful the government is, even though the opposite is true. Non-systemic impact expenditure is a real risk for the whole budget. In this respect, too, the SPD proposes a solution. Here is our bill of law on the legalization of a minimum dignified pension at the level of income poverty, which is now about 12 thousand net monthly in the Czech Republic. Or the legalization of our proposal to increase pensions by a fixed amount, not a percentage, regardless of the government, thus losing governments the opportunity to blackmail and abuse socially the weakest through unsystemic steps. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic, more precisely this government wants to increase its arms spending in the future. But not primarily to defend our country. And there's a difference. Why am I talking about this? Not only does the SPD disagree with the expansionary focus of our army, but, above all, there is no guarantee that it will be investments that will benefit us and not just the benefit to arms companies. You know I'm talking about billions of crowns. The current system leads to irresponsibility because there is no effective control of the effectiveness of the funds spent within the State and budgetary control. The path to reducing the deficit and the satisfaction of citizens with the state's work is this way, despite the responsibility of the responsible, which brings the maximum efficiency of the money that citizens entrust to the government and which the government without shame and too generously spends. Now we see that the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement spends on one side and spends billions on payments to solar barons or on benefits for inadaptable ones, and on the other hand, it does not have the money to improve the lives of disabled and old-age pensioners or working families with children, and especially as far as those pensioners are concerned, they literally live. So it's a simple summary of this state budget, and there's no need to talk about it for three hours. It is actually quite clear how structured the budget is. For the reasons set out above, the SPD will not support such a structured budget because decent workers and decent people are first for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u11	Thank you. I remind you that we are not yet in the general debate. They give priority rights, Minister Schillerová cancels her priority rights. At this moment, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will speak with his priority right. I'm handing over the proceedings. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u12	Thank you. Have a good afternoon, too. I wouldn't want to repeat what's going on here in other shows, because actually the dictionary is always very similar. I would rather point out something that I think is the trend that is long-term and which should be long-term in the Czech Republic and which I think is also part of the reasoning that we had when the budget was drawn up. I think what the Czech Republic needs for the future is smart spending that will bring money. And if you were to ask what area it is worth spending money in today, because that's the field of the future, I would tell you if you were looking for the industry that is currently going through the most violent development, you would find it in, for example, the industry in which the United States has invested $650 billion in the last five years and which is called entertainment industry. I don't know how to translate it, whether it's the entertainment industry or the leisure industry. The industry that is connected with the scripts today, with filmmakers who are even associated with celebrities, who are connected with a huge amount of crafts and, above all, with creation and who are now experiencing such a boom that, in fact, the largest contemporary companies such as Facebook, such as Apple, such as Google, such as Amazon, Disney, Netflix, in which I repeat once again, 650 billions have been invested in the United States in recent years. dollars. [[14.50 hours]] So as there was talk yesterday about the past a hundred years ago, about railways, about diesel and other major issues that drove industry, so today, when you look at where the biggest revelry takes place, where the biggest investments are made, it's this entertainment industry. And actually, it's a strange industry that gets to a huge number of people. I know Walt Disney now offers seven dollars a month, actually, streaming services that Star Wars and others are on, they have 700 miles. clients, that means, it affects a huge number of audiences, and it's something that is actually going on with a huge dynamic at the moment, because there are several companies in the market, none of which are even 20% today, so this battle is happening before our eyes. I would like to point out here that the Czech Republic is a part of it. Today, this foreign capital is pouring into the Czech Republic, which is important to realize, because there is talk of cooling the economy everywhere, and foreign capital is pouring into the Czech Republic, which is trying to place here, because there is a whole range of crafts, manufacturers and creators who are actually an excellent workforce for this industry. And I'm glad that we've managed to agree in the government that we've actually almost approved another 500 miles in the last few years. for movie incentives. I think it was a pretty important step, and I'm glad that we agreed on this because if we didn't, the Czech Republic would start looking like a country that doesn't respond to this wave and can't answer it, and it could mean that our little medium-sized companies here are gonna start losing their business because they're gonna move to our neighbors in Poland and so on, who are investing a lot more in it. In the Czech Republic, we don't have to give incentives like they do, because we have a very good workforce base, but we can get out of this when we hesitate. I'm talking about this being an assignment for the next year to keep this step, but not just that. I think he would... [[Sound went off.]] Someone turned me off. I hope I didn't say so much! You know, I'm afraid that we shouldn't get too heavy in this area, because we can enjoy having crafts that are very competitive here in Central and Eastern Europe, but we wouldn't... [[A Member of the Zaoralek has been alerted to some lack of clothing.]] Is something wrong? Another mistake! You can see that? [[Voice from the O.R. Yes.]] Oh, you're trying to make me miserable. First my mic falls off, now you're fixing my clothes, tell me what's wrong, so I can talk calmly and concentrate. [[Fun in the hall.]] Okay, nothing. Oh, it's for the photo shoot, okay, thank you. Sometimes it's hard to get back to the subject. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I hope you're following me. I'd like you to ignore my clothes and all that stuff and notice what I'm saying. [[Reactions in the O.R. off the microphone.]] Yes, it is. I don't think it really matters how much the speaker is dressed. What really matters is that he has something to say. I can see that's okay with this. So, the montages. We don't care about the montages, either. Like I said, we should be trying to do something more than just installments. I'm looking at you now, isn't that a problem? Okay. Well, to be exact, it would like the Czech Republic to be a producer, too. As in Poland, they already have a Netflix branch, as in the UK today, they are putting the major funds into this type of industry, clearly putting the biggest money there today, betting on this. Then I would mention Denmark. Denmark is a country that shows how even a small country, how even a small country comparable to us, is actually able to be a producer. Remember, it was once a show called Borgen. They actually have products, Danish products on this market that are of high quality. And I think it's nice when three of our young men - I think it's last week - sold their idea and their 100 million-mile game, I don't know if it was CZK, Facebook, but I feel like it would be good for the future if we were really producers ourselves. And that is why it seems very important to me that we have now signed a memorandum with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Havlíček in recent days, and I think that it is not only cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Industry, but that it includes other ministries that we have addressed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development, and I actually think it is a task today for us not only to employ our craftsmen by allowing foreign capital here, but also to look for a way in which the Czech Republic will produce what I said at the beginning. Smart production, which brings money and which also brings us a dignified share in production and in this industry, which - I am convinced - has a future today. I think that our government policy and investment in this area will also decide where the Czech Republic will belong tomorrow. And I'm glad that this is the one thing the government agrees on, and that we're doing this, even the resorts, together. And I believe that the Ministry of Culture, although this may sound surprising to you, should also play a crucial role in this future, and I have even dealt with the Confederation of Industry and others in this regard, that we want to participate in these fairs that are in the world today, and surprisingly, today there are fairs where it is culture and all these creative areas or areas of creation that play a crucial role in producing similar series, films and what is on the rise today. So I want to draw your attention to this area, too, because I think that The Ministry of Culture should not be on the verge, because it is obvious that this type of industry, on the contrary, should make it quite an important part of the government's strategy, and I am glad that I find partners in the government who view the problem as I do. Otherwise, I'd like to say to the budget that I can confirm what the Prime Minister said. This budget is not a budget for cuts. If we're talking about cooling the economy that's threatening the world today and, of course, in relation to business wars and Brexit, this cooling can probably become a reality next year, and it'll have to be dealt with somehow. That is why I think it is important, as I said in my first part, to let foreign capital into the Czech Republic if it joins us and not prevent it. But if the cooling is real, then it is important for the government to do as the Prime Minister said today that we should not repeat what happened here in 2011, that the government responded to it by strangling expenditure. On the contrary, I must repeat what has already been said here today. The government - and I'm glad there's a consensus on this - is going to support social spending. [[15.00 hours]] I am very glad that the negotiations that we have held have led to the pension being 900 crowns higher, to the parenting being 80 thousand. crowns higher. I am glad that we have pushed through these increases in these areas and in the social field, because I remember when we came as Social Democrats in June and we said that we wanted another 20 billion, so of course there was some tension in the government. But this result, which I am telling you today - 900 crowns pension, 80 thousand. increase in parenting, these are needed concrete results. Or 14,600 minimum wage. These are the things I consider to be the good results of the negotiations we conducted in the government. And I also think that if I were to mention what I consider to be the result of the negotiations that led social democracy and its ministers, for example, it is that we are responding to climate change. I, when there are debates about whether they are or are not, but we in the Czech Republic are struggling with a drought that I can easily imagine is part of the climate change that is so widely discussed. And what we've put through, 300 miles. Water management, 700 miles. into the forest - because you know well and unfortunately many of you are from areas where you observe the quite scary process of crust in our country. And these are the concrete manifestations of climate change that we need to respond to, and I'm glad we found an agreement in the government on this, too. So these investments, I am also convinced that there are investments that make it worth raising your hand for that budget, because they are something that I think is clearly in the interests of society and people. That is why, of course, I am determined to support this budget, because it is a budget that I believe is resistant to the possible cooling of the economy, which is a budget that will support growth, and which is a budget that invests in the social state. And in my opinion, it's actually how he invests in people and invests in the future. What a strong subject the welfare state and social services have been, for example, seen in recent days when the debate took place about the situation in retirement homes and the quality of care in retirement homes. And it seems to me that the root of this debate is that when you start to think about how much those social workers and nurses have in their retirement homes, maybe you'll find out when I'm talking about my county, that they're on minimum wage. That means that's almost completely undignified. On the one hand, I saw how the social media debate wants everyone in these retirement homes to behave properly with the old people, and on the other hand, when you know the environment, you know that the work there is incredibly hard, unimaginablely hard - I think everyone who knows something about it has to confirm - while those people are working there for minimum wage. I even know old-age homes where they're in vain looking for employees just for the low wages. So you see, when I put it that way in general, we support spending in the social sphere, so it looks like an abstract thesis, but in reality, it means something that's extremely urgent. If we just don't pay these people nicely, then we're hypocrites when we want them to work there in those very harsh conditions, in my opinion. I don't want to tell you why, I hope everyone thinks so. So let's not talk abstractly, let's specifically imagine what those retirement homes look like, and let's try to pay decently for those people who are willing to do work there that's so hard. And that's why, when I say that I think it's a success that we've managed to get the resources to increase social services so that we don't have to argue about it again and again here in this House - which you know is going on here - it's kind of a big deal for me, and I think it's a success. And it is a success in this case, Jana Maláčová, a social democratic minister who advocated it. So that's the reason. Of course, there are things I miss there too, I'll just admit it. Because you know that even in the coalition, we have debates that I don't think we can agree on. You know that we, too, have raised the issue of sector banking tax during the year, we have highlighted the question of increasing corporate tax precisely because we want funds for what I was talking about here. We programmed to support small and medium-sized companies. Because I am convinced in the long run that the way to prosperity of the Czech Republic is that we will encourage these companies to get into those world chains with products that are sold in the world at good prices, and we can increase wages. And that, of course, was why we wanted to go into those sector taxes, why we wanted to raise corporate taxes. We don't have an agreement on this in the coalition, I'm sorry, because that means we can't invest in the same direction as we imagined. But the coalition is a compromise, and I simply respect that what has been achieved is something worthwhile and meaningful for us. I, you know, I've repeated this many times, I think if there were other coalitions, if there were coalitions in which the Civil Democratic Party or other parties are from center to right, that would just make the government's policy look different. And there certainly wouldn't be any increase in minimum wage. And at the same time, I don't think that even what we've done, 14 600 is any glory. Even what is as far as possible at the moment, what we have advocated, is lower than what they have in Slovakia, lower than what they have in Poland. But I'm saying, at least for that, at least that's what happened. And I think it specifically concerns people. I myself met those who told me that this was manifesting itself significantly at their standard of living. So it's a compromise, and it's not always fulfilling what we wanted, but I see things that are important. And if there was another government, if there was a government in which social democracy wouldn't have the role it has, I'm sure the things I was talking about wouldn't be here. Because I remember it well, the right-wing parties have a different philosophy, and if they were to practice and enforce the same policy that they pushed through in 2011, then here we have the policy of tightening belts again. That's how they reacted to the cooling of the economy back then. And I would be afraid if this were to happen again. At that time, it led to real deprivation, begging people. And today we have the opportunity to try to react differently and prevent the Czech economy from happening if this development continues to a certain recession, so that it does not repeat the mistakes that occurred here after 2011. And I am glad that social democracy can contribute to this today in order not to unnecessarily complicate economic development by deploying again this flawed philosophy, which was so unfortunately tested in the Czech Republic at the time. So with this lesson, I think that what has already been said here is absolutely true. This is a budget that will not be a budget for cuts. And he will be careful, even at a time of certain cooling of the economy, that the pensioners, that the people in the institutions, that the employees do not lose the basic dignity of their lives. And that is what we guarantee before next year and what I think this budget is capable of guaranteeing. And I think that this is a very important report for the public, and I am glad that the economic development and the economic balance sheet over the budget have been going in that direction. So with this, I'm probably clear enough that I'm ready to support the budget, and even with all the compromises, I think it's good for next year in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u13	Now I have one factual one, but I would like to point out to President Kalousek that we are not in the general debate. [[Member Kalousek reporting for word.]] That's why they're not factual yet, they're only priority rights you have, but then you'd have to take the order. So just give me a call. There's a priority right here - I'll just read it, I'll recap. So President Vít Rakušan, then President Pekarová Adamová, then President Petr Fiala and President Marek Výborný. So you're interested in enlisting? [[- I don't.]] Okay. So I will now ask President Vít Rakušan to speak, and President Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone if I begin to report that STAN cannot support the budget presented. I have already made an extensive comment on these reasons in the first reading of the budget. Now I would rather concentrate on what we would expect from the responsible government to be a real budget priority for the years to come. And I would like to briefly recapitulate what is bothering us about this draft state budget. It bothers us that the government is being fiscally very irresponsible. We are at a time of obvious undisputed economic booms, we are at a time when the global economy is doing very well, and the government is not using this time to create and be able to create any budgetary reserves. [[15.10 hours]] What are we currently witnessing? The government is using up reserves. In order to raise additional funds, the government is selling out state material reserves. The government is trying to find savings, or is trying to find money for investment by taking money from people in increased taxes, while acting irresponsiblely in that they simply do not lower the cost of the state budget. The government is not trying to save on the operation of the state, and the government is not representing any geyser of investment at this time, which would move the Czech Republic in the right direction. What is the ratio of current expenditure and investment in the draft budget for 2020? 91 percent of the state budget goes to current state spending. The investments range to 9 per cent. The government claims that this is a record volume of investment that it has prepared for next year. I'd dare to doubt it. Maybe in the absolute number, yes, but let's look at the crisis year 2012, when the ratio of investment to gross domestic product was 2.8 %. This was at a time when our economy and the economy of Europe were global in a period of crisis. For this year, it was 2.5 percent compared to GDP. At the same time, it bothers us that the government is still not thinking about the most important things missing from the Czech Republic. After all, the Czech Republic is really becoming that traffic black hole in the middle of Europe. Let's look at the German railroads, which prefer to avoid the Czech Republic, bypassing the outskirts of the Czech Republic on their way to Vienna, do not go through our territory, because and simply it will come out faster in time. There is no ambition to create real speedways, there is no ambition even to build highways, as we read on the billboards of the ANO movement. Where are the highways? And perhaps this is the best example of the actual emptyness of the marketing approach of the YES movement to politics: to promise people something, but not to fulfill it. 34 kilometers of highways were built this year. Last year it was just four kilometers of highways. And we will not fool anyone by redefining the express roads in the Czech Republic as a motorway network. For the next year, no miraculous amount of money is proposed in the transport infrastructure area, which would move the Czech Republic forward as an important transit country in the middle of Europe. And we must realise that the transport infrastructure, its neglect, is a fundamental economic limit for the further development of our economy, for the further development of the Czech Republic. The government has long promised an investment plan, a National Investment Plan. He became a sort of Mrs. Columbová to our political scene. Everyone's heard of him, but no one's ever seen him before. The Prime Minister is waving him around, and all he's ever gonna show us is the envelope, he's gonna tell the political competition that we have another envelope. It's hard to get to the right one, because the plan hasn't been introduced to us here. And I refer to my interpelation, which took place in 2017, its first half, sorry, right after the 2017 elections, later in 2018, when the Prime Minister already spoke about the National Investment Plan, which was due to be by Christmas in 2018. That's what was said here. There was no such thing, only the cover of the National Investment Plan came up. He is said to be ready at the moment, and the Prime Minister spoke to the representatives of the construction business about the fact that even some 5 beats should be invested. CZK, which is the volume of annual GDP of the Czech Republic. We don't know what the money's gonna go into. And it must be said that we are in the second half of the current government's term of office, and investment priorities are not set here. What does the budget structure look like next year? It's just the gaming of billions from one pick to another, but the budget structurally looks like they're just valorizing the items that have already appeared in the budgets of the previous years. The budget has no ambition to move our country somewhere further, a budget that should be rationally drawn up so that the investment strategy of the Czech Republic is determined at the earliest, and a surgical approach will be followed in a thoughtful strategy of what investment the Czech Republic needs. And instead, a plan is promised here that is not presented. Instead, our state's normal and dictatorial expenses are increasing. Instead, the government does not reduce the number of civil servants it promised. Yes, he promises to cancel 6,000 next year. the places in the administration, but in that sentence, b) does not say that the total number of newly created seats for next year will simply be higher than the number of canceled seats. We're currently moving to 474 thousand. civil servants. For us as for the STAN movement, the ceiling is currently 400 thousand. But it requires something. It requires simplification of government, it requires a real attempt to digitize it, to simplify it, to electronize it. After all, the normal official day of the ordinary official, even in the Ministry, is simply that three days out of five are devoted to complex bureaucracy, which complicates their lives and complicates their lives even more for the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's what the work of our officials looks like at the moment. Not to mention the fact that states that have actually embarked on simplifying the administration and digitising it, such as the many times mentioned by Estonia, have actually saved 2% of GDP. In Czech relations it would be some 104 to 106 billion. Crowns. That is the money we are missing from the most important thing in the Czech Republic, for investment and for reform and funding of education, an education system where we are still moving to some 3.7 percent of GDP, albeit the recommended rate should be at least 5.5 percent. In basic research, we are moving on the brink of comparison between the countries of the European Union. Even basic research is drastically underfunded for the next year within the Czech Republic, even if we operate here by numbers that the sum itself is rising, so there is no significant progress in the share of GDP for next year. When I mentioned the education system, what does the government promise? Of course, it is not self - saving, but it promises to increase the salaries of pedagogical workers in the long run. Those promises appear several times, and now he'll be here, and I'm looking above all at the side of social democracy, a big test of how serious the government really is. Amendments are introduced to the system, which increase the salaries of teachers, come from various parties and movements, and one of those proposals, I think, comes from a workshop of social democracy in the amount of 3.5 billion. Today, as opposition Members, we have declared that we have 87 votes in favour of either of the amendments raising money to the salaries of teachers by the opposition. So we are 13 votes short, social democracy has 15, and the Communists are also short, and I hope that the members of the ANO movement will be ready to simply support these proposals because they would otherwise embezzle their own promise, and that the government under the baton of the YES movement in the coalition with social democracy, supported by the KSČM, will be responsible for the teaching profession and will actually finally increase the prestige of the teaching profession, while currently the teacher's salary is 60 percent of the average salary of a university-educated person in the Czech Republic. [[15.20 hours]] Again, it's not self-saving. This is the beginning of investment in the educational system and this is the railway, this is the track, the road, the highway to prosperity of the Czech Republic. A high-quality education system that prepares people for life in the 21st century, which no longer requires mere and professionalism for any branch, merely teaching in some craft that one should do his whole life. We live in a world of change, a world of such change that no generation has ever seen here before. Above all, we must prepare young people, and support this also in budgetary terms, to live in such a world where they are likely to pursue a completely different profession at the end of their professional career than at the beginning. And they must be prepared for lifelong learning, for working with information. And no one but a quality, motivated and well-prepared teacher can guarantee it. Of course, investment in education is not the only thing we lack in the Czech Republic's budget for next year. They're not just teachers' salaries. We're short of money here for modernizing the government, for innovation. We lack the focus of our economy, which is still very energy-intensive and fundamentally based on low-cost installations, on the knowledge economy of the 21st century. But that will never happen if the government doesn't set its priorities before it starts handing out money on all sides and starts eating laboriously created reserves at the time of the boom. Where are we at the moment? The Czech economy is not in bad shape at the moment, objectively speaking. We've come a long way in 30 years. We are a medium-income economy, a modernised economy, but still too focused on manual work, too focused on assembly facilities, too focused on such fields that do not create the desired added value. The energy intensity that I mentioned also relates to the fact that the government has not yet had any major ambitions to present an ambitious plan in the energy policy of the Czech Republic. We're actually running into the haunting of Babišův's sirens that have been screaming all over the world that it's been better. I'm sure it's better than it was 30 years ago. But it's not as good as it might be. And this government, with its current fiscal policy, will not be able to look our children and grandchildren in the eye because it is eating through their future. Let us look at the fact that the revenue of the state budget is some 37 billion made up of contributions to insurance. Social expenditure, however, is CZK 40.4 billion. We're creating a trap here, a huge trap for the difference in income and expenditure in the social area. And who's gonna take it away? In particular, generations of currently productive people who start retiring after 2030. In addition to the addition of pensions and various benefits, the government has completely resigned from preparing responsible reform of the social system, including pension reform. We're setting up a next-generation trap here. That is why we cannot support a budget that is only supposed to be pleasing, because some elections are still taking place in the Czech Republic. There's a permanent election campaign conducted by the ANO movement. And I'm sure we'll read on the billboards for the next time that the highways and highways will really be this time, and if it's not quite right now, it'll be better in this country. But I don't think with this government that just eats through and manages the future and follows simple politics, and that's after us the flood. Indeed, we cannot support a budget that has no ambition to move our country towards the knowledge and performance economies of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u15	Now, with priority right, I call on President Pekarová Adamová to speak. And then the chairman of the ODS and vice-chairman of the House, Petr Fiala, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u16	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have been said here, there are not even half of us here at the moment, I would say. Perhaps some are tired of the very long speech by the Prime Minister, in which he managed to return from the first Republic to the 1990s until the previous years. So I will try very briefly to draw your attention to what we consider TOP 09 to be fundamentally problematic in this budget, which is proposed for 2020. We have already announced at second reading that we are not only satisfied with the overall framework and with the deficit presented to us, but also with the very structure of the budget and with the priorities, which are therefore undervalued in terms of funds, some overvalued. That is why we have prepared 27 amendments ourselves, which, on the contrary, reflect the priorities that we consider important. Like many previous speakers, I also have to mention the most important area of education. Education is not only about teachers' salaries, of course, but it has been significantly reduced in recent months, perhaps even for years. (?) And we, like the others, want to keep the promise given to teachers. That promise was clear, 15 percent specific. When you talk to people in public who are not connected with this profession, with teaching, they feel, judging by the amount of promises and the amount of words that have been said, that teachers must have been added at least three times, four times during this term. The truth is, however, only one addition, even though we, as the Chamber of Deputies, unanimously decided that we were really behind such an increase, i.e. 15%. Although we all have it in our programs, although many declare it. But the public is confused by the words and thinks that real growth has happened many times, and that is why people are already beginning to have such opinions as those teachers would like and if they should not be added elsewhere. The reality is that they have been added once and that, therefore, the promise given to them for next year is 5% lower in the real draft budget. That is why we also come up with an amendment that would allow the promise originally given and by government policies themselves to be kept. Of course, there are so many amendments to this particular chapter that it is possible to choose where you want the coverage to go to the detriment of what. And we are here declaring support for all amendments relating to teacher salaries. We will also support the amendment, which came directly from the government coalition, virtually. one government party - ČSSD. We consider this to be such a key issue that, as politicians, we really should find agreement across the political spectrum and not make excuses for a 10% increase. Another area, which we consider to be clearly essential and also concerns education and education, is therefore another, let's say, less attractive to the public, but very important for school owners, namely subsidies that can be used to improve the working conditions of teachers, namely in the sense that schools are not really inflatable and there is increasing involvement of other professions in education, such as teachers' assistants, which is absolutely correct, but for them those schools no longer have sufficient background. These are very practical matters. But those should also be taken into account in the budget. And since they were not sufficient, in this case, we are responding to this by our amendment. It also concerns the salaries of teaching assistants who are required to carry out joint education in schools. These two amendments, which I am proposing specifically, I ask you to support if you really mean your words about wanting the Czech Republic to prosper and be competitive in the future. The Czech Republic certainly has the capacity for its people to be even more successful in the future than they are today, and for them to be able to stand up in a globalised world. But it is education, education of our children and education of all generations that is crucial in this duel. [[15.30 hours]] The other amendments that we are putting forward concern drug prevention, a number of other measures in cyber security, the fight against drought, but also a number of other things in support of the non-profit sector, etc. I understand that many consider the budget to be a final matter which should not be too much to touch, but Minister Schillerová herself has declared that she will support such changes in the budget, which will be consistent with government policy and which are a priority for the government. And, as one of the key priorities, it is education that has identified this in the first place, so if we can take these words seriously, Madam Secretary, I hope that you and your colleagues here will support the changes that contribute to this. This applies, of course, not only to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, but also to science and research. This is very closely linked, and if we want to be a competitive country, we must support innovation, we must support science, research more than we do in this current draft budget. I wanted to talk about the amendments in particular, and because I know that there are more than 170 of them, so it is very difficult to know about them, so I have prepared a simple graphic that shows our amendments in specific areas. It's a percentage of how much will be added to one or another. I'll put it in front of my counter so that you can take a look at it yourself during the rest of the speech I want to make very briefly. [[He puts the presentation in front of the counter.]] And I'm going to ask you to, if you really mean your words about supporting these very key priorities, as it is in the government's statement itself, as it is in many of the talks that you have in your electoral programs, so that you have a say in it. The Prime Minister has been very long here, and one of those things which, as a certain thread in his speech, was also a criticism of all previous governments and of all that had to be corrected by the Sobotkův government or by the current Babišův. One of the things that seemed to come out of it is that it's like we're all here six years ago, all of us who were already sitting here, in a completely broken, burned country. A country that may be approaching some kind of development. Of course, this has never been the case in the lives of our citizens and our country, and it is not today. But if something really is at the level of the banana republics, it is the current situation, which is precisely from dealing with priorities, the vision for the Czech Republic, the problems we have to deal with here in the Chamber of Deputies, so if anything is drawing us closer to it, it is precisely how it clings to the fact that it does not want to resign as Prime Minister, although it is criminally prosecuted today after the decision of the Supreme Prosecutor again, whether it is also his conflict of interest, which is declared by the audit of the European Commission. So I would like to conclude by saying that for us, not only should it be a role model in education and other innovations, research and science, Finland, but when I look at the Prime Minister's resignation in Finland after the postmen's strike, it should also be in the political culture that does not happen here. Rather, we could be dealing with the priorities that are expressed in our case by the amendments. We could rather address what is important for the future of the Czech Republic and its citizens. I would be very grateful if we could finally get to this one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u17	I will now ask the Vice-President of the House to speak to the President of the ODS, Petr Fiala. I will merely recapitulate: then the President of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný and with priority right the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, so far I have three priority rights here and then the rapporteur would speak if there was no other application, Miloslava Vostrá. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u18	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I will stick to what is the main point of today's meeting, this is the third reading of the draft State budget for 2020. I will not, like the Prime Minister, comment on audits and, of course, not on today's report. After all, we have a point reserved for those audits tomorrow. It would be beautiful if we could talk here about how successful the year 2019 was in the Czech Republic, and how we are therefore waiting in 2020 on the basis of the long-term economic growth of the surplus or at least a balanced budget. But unfortunately, that's not the case, and 40 billion. The deficit prepared by the government is indeed a sad business card for the government's management. If someone flew in from Mars today and listened to the Prime Minister and his speech here in the Chamber of Deputies, they would have had to be impressed that Andrej Babiš has been in government since yesterday or came to it at the most last week. Because according to him everything has been wrong for the past 30 years, we've all been incompetent, no one has done anything, over and over again repeated the pity that this, shame, damage and so on and so on and so on. There's no plan, there's no funding, there's a bad law, there's no money, there's a bad European Union, there's a bad opposition, of course, mostly the ODS, elsewhere it's the citizens' fault, somewhere it's the fault of activists, etc., etc. I must remind the Prime Minister that he has ruled for six years of those 30 years. He's been in government for six years, that's one and a half years. And in three hours I didn't hear him say, "This is what we did, this is what we started, this is what we ended, here's a result." Any politician can beat after six years, he has to beat, he has to have something in his hand, he has to show some results. And Andrej Babiš, after six years, when he has key resorts in the hands of the ANO movement, all he talks about besides the past, as everything is wrong, and some kind of plan, some kind of plan, in which he promises everything, but the result is nowhere. Like I said, the Prime Minister was talking, talking for three hours, but he didn't say anything significant. What we have here is a budget that is neither for investment nor anti-Burrocratic nor developmental, and it is not even balanced. And I have to say that presenting such a budget after so many years of unprecedented economic growth and very favourable macroeconomic indicators is simply a disgrace and an inability of government. Believe me, the Citizen Democratic Party is not pleased that there is constant eating through these economically successful years. That is why, unfortunately, I am saying this, and I am serious about it - unfortunately, we have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the state budget for several years now, amendments by which we are returning the budget not only to the form of a balanced budget, but even this year we have been able to show the government how the budget could also be drawn up in surplus. Forty-six billion savings - 46 billion savings - is proof that the government could have really saved these funds. It would have been enough if she wanted to, if she had been able to, but unfortunately that's not the case. My colleagues pointed out a lot of mistakes in the previous state budget discussion. I have reminded here the greatest sin of the state budget, which is deficit and poor structure. However, I would like to mention a few more examples where I think that it would still be possible for amendments to correct something, the worst mistakes. I'm going to give you two examples of investment in transport infrastructure and education. [[15.40 hours]] I would ask Prime Minister Babiš - but he's not here right now, so I will ask the Minister of Transport Kremlík, who here, at least most of the day as one of the few members of the government, I would also like to remind you. The most important law of government, what determines what the government can implement next year, has been very proud of the Prime Minister here. Look at the representation of government members here to defend the state budget. [[He's turning to government benches.]] But Minister Kremlík was here until recently, so I would ask if he knows how many billions the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure has received for its investments in the crisis year 2009. The secretary of finance is here, she knows for sure. In a crisis year, and I assume you know that, and I don't even suspect that you wouldn't, but I'm gonna remind you anyway. In the crisis year 2009, more than CZK 88 billion went to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. And that was 7.6 percent of the total expenditure. And what about next year's budget? You all know that, too, not just the Secretary of Finance, because it's been discussed repeatedly. After an increase, following an increase in funding that has not been spent this year, it is 93 billion, which is only 5.75 percent of total expenditure. Is that how you think we're supposed to invest in our roads, in the quality of the roads? You know, the Minister is already here, and the Minister certainly knows that our roads are the sixth worst in the countries of the European Union? And that's not just the opposition saying, and the fact that the money in the transport infrastructure is insufficient, it's also not just the opposition saying. The Supreme Audit Office repeatedly blames the government, here I can quote one sentence: The slow pace of the construction of new transport infrastructure, the increasing intensity of transport and the deterioration of existing roads can negatively affect the competitiveness of the Czech economy. That's what the Supreme Audit Office says. And look at what the government's budget is and what the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure looks like. I am pleased that Mr Blaha has tabled an amendment which increases the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, but I say this is mainly the government's task. We're not here to deal with this from the opposition, to correct government mistakes. The government should do it. And let me just remind you that in order for transport infrastructure spending to reach a percentage of 2009, as I have reminded you here, it should be 122.5, i.e. a hundred and twenty-two and a half billion crowns. And if the government had presented such an amount, there is nothing to criticize it, it would be a confirmation that road quality, the quality of transport infrastructure is a government priority. But that's what the proposal submitted for, what the government wants to put in the transport infrastructure, really far away. And let me give you one more example, one comment, which concerns education, education, because, compared to the amount of spending on education regularly among OECD countries, the Czech Republic has recently occupied the last rungs. And I am, of course, pleased that yesterday's published results of the 2018 PISA comparison show a slight improvement in our pupils. It's not an improvement, or it's not a result that we're really proud of, but we're all happy that there's been an improvement. But on this basis too, the PISA report states - I quote: The Czech Republic has achieved a better outcome than the education expenditure spent compared to OECD countries. End of quote. And that is something that we certainly should not accept and change. And the first step, of course, is, and we know that, and that's the right recipe, is the attractive position of teacher for potential candidates, more motivation for incoming teachers. And of course, we all know that the quality of education and the quality of teachers is not only about money, but at the same time it is not possible for teachers to have 60 percent of the average salary of other college students. And that's what the Minister is yelling at me. [[Minister Zaoralek off microphone: There has been an improvement.]] The improvement, of course, is there, is mild, but in no way do we achieve the results that we would have in these tests and what would correspond to the long-term quality of education in the Czech Republic and our ambition and also to the needs of our economy. [[Noise in the hall.]] And yet the improvement, as I said, and you listened well, and that makes me very happy, because I don't know if the other members of the government are listening to me that well, that's great. So it is in the PISA report that it is also noted that we are achieving better results than funding. And that's not a thing the government should be proud of. We should fix it. And we're offering you the remedy. We are even offering the correction that corresponds to the promise of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to raise the teachers' money, teachers' wages by 15 percent. That is a promise you have failed to keep, but my colleague, Mr Martin Baxa, tabled an amendment that will allow us to keep this promise. So all you have to do is support our amendment. Last Christmas we were promised to look at that big investment plan of Andrej Babiš, the longest list of promises in the history of this planet, what will be invested here in the next ten years and what will be 5 trillion crowns. There's another Christmas coming up. We still don't see the investment plan, so maybe we'll see it by Christmas. And again, that's what I said in the beginning. When other politicians are cutting tapes after six years in government, they show what they have done, what they have built, we will see here some big investment dreamer, where promises will be made by 2030 for investments of a total amount of CZK 5 trillion. I remind you here in connection with this state budget that if you look at the investments in this state budget, the amount of capital expenditure in this budget is only CZK 146.2 billion. So all we have to do is tell the Prime Minister that we can look forward to the government submitting budgets in the coming years, which will count on investments of CZK 400 to 500 billion per year, because otherwise it is impossible for the investment plan, so many times already announced in the media, with CZK 5 trillion in the next ten years, to implement the investment plan. I think it's really just a dream. It's the dream of Andrej Babiš, who he doesn't even trust himself. The fact is that investments in this year and next year are completely inadequate, do not meet the needs of the Czech Republic, do not correspond to the interests of the Czech Republic, and no talk and no investment dreamer for the next ten years will, unfortunately, change anything. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the reasons why the Civil Democratic Party cannot support such a draft budget, a draft budget that is neither for investment nor for anti-Burrocratic nor for development, which is not even balanced at the time of economic growth. However, I beg you to support our amendments, because they can at least improve this poor budget a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u19	I will now request a performance with priority rights by the President of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný. It is the last priority right so far, so the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Miloslava Vostrá, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Minister, Dear Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have had the opportunity to comment very in detail at first reading on the draft state budget for 2020. As part of the second reading, we, the KDU-ČSL MEP, have also tabled a number of amendments which go where we see the greatest deficit in this budget. Yes, the deficit is 40 billion. Even in this parameter, the government is not fulfilling its promises to reduce the deficit. I expected that, as was the case in the previous years, we were at least moving down that curve, that the Minister would continue to be ambitious, but for a number of different reasons, this was not the case. That means, once again, we're in a $40 billion deficit. But, ladies and gentlemen, that budget deficit is somewhere else too. The deficit is with families, parents, the budget is unfortunately not conducive to those who deserve it the most, and the budget, as presented from our point of view, is not only a budget without a vision, but it is a consumption budget, and it is not a budget that has been looked forward to the future. [[15.50 hours]] We would very much like the budget to be the budget of the future, future years, not just the nearest goal, i.e. the nearest elections, as unfortunately the government coalition and especially the YES movement and the Prime Minister, who does not have the ambition to see public finances in the long term. And all you have to do is take any examples from history. We have years of skinnyness, and then we have years of success. And if we have years that are fat, it's good to save for those years that are skinny. And I don't think I have to say where you can find that example. And unfortunately, that is not what this government is doing. We are still in these fat years, although the signals that of course are and which the government does not want to see in the long run underestimates them, show that we are coming for years not fat but thin years, and unfortunately the government does nothing in this sense to be prepared for this time. Unfortunately, the budget, and it has been said repeatedly, has no long-term vision. When I mentioned investments, I can be quite specific. The government is shielded by the increase in the absolute number of expenditure on investment, but when we look at some long-term indicators, capital expenditure at a time when we were really in those thin years was in 2010, was 11 percent, was 11 percent. This year, or for 2020, capital expenditure is only 9 per cent. These are things that are completely indisputable. And if we add to that the ever-increasing mandatorial expenses - and I want to stress that some of them are, of course, understandable. In one voice, the Chamber of Deputies felt that it was good to help our seniors when we had a bold summer, that it was good to raise pensions. Of course, the government talks about 900 crowns. On the one hand, it is not her money that she sends to the elderly, and on the other hand, of course, it was mostly the result of legal valorisation, and we have raised our hand to all present Members of this Chamber of Deputies. This also needs to be recalled again. And when I look very briefly at the priorities of KDU-ČSL, they have already been said here. Once again, we see the danger of getting into the same problem in the spring and the same, often very absurd debates and discussions about who and how and when to finance, for example, social services. Among other things, one of my colleague Pavla Golasowská and Vít Kaňkovský amendments is headed there. We would like to save ourselves the debate that took several meetings here, many hours, because we believe that this House should not primarily deal with the prism of the last few hours and days of personal problems of the Prime Minister, but we should not even deal with what we can solve, for example, within the framework of the State Budget Act. If we resolve this today, we will save time in the spring and we will be able to engage, for example, in a very difficult discussion that awaits us around the amendment to the Enforcement Order, the Code of Civil Procedure. Discussions that can touch the elementary reform of the education system, because when we look at it, it's just ripping state math and all that, so it's just marginalia in the finals. We have a long-term concept to deal with. And I could go on and on, not to mention that the government likes to talk about how it approaches pensions conceptually, and we don't have anything from the pension board yet. And, of course, we should have the ambition to ensure that the outcome of the work of the pension board, which also includes our Members, and our representatives, is somehow tangible, so that there is agreement across the political spectrum, so that we do not address matters through the adoption of the nearest elections, but in the long term, so as to be clear for the next decade, where today's 30-year-olds, as they will be within their retirement age, etc. etc. I would like to recall another area that we consider to be crucial and important in addition to the social sector, and I regret that yesterday, when we proposed at least a small segment, a mini-course package for families, for seniors, for widows and widowers, for mothers, for women who raised children, that the government coalition had turned its back on it. It's incomprehensible. In doing so, we could have had some of the things that we could have done, and we could have incorporated it after the debate in the second, third reading into the whole context of pension reform, which the Czech Republic necessarily needs. Of course, the second area that we see as priority and important is education. That's an investment. Investments cannot only be directed to motorways, transport infrastructure, but also to education. It is not just about teachers' salaries, it is about the overall concept of investment in education and education. And I want to stress that, of course, the quality of schools is brought by teachers. If we do not really appreciate the teachers, then we can hardly expect a qualitative shift at the level of the Czech school and educational system in the long term. That is why we, too, are very much in favour of what part of the government Members are proposing in the end, so that we should get the ambition of the teacher not to keep the average of rising salaries in the public sphere, but to really get to where they are supposed to be. This means, not compared to 2017, but compared to the current year, that they will no longer be the worst-paid college students in the Czech Republic, as unfortunately it is. That is where our amendments are headed, including the solution to the small things, such as classrooms and the like. And the third thing we're going to do, let's say, is the third most important part of our registrations, that's the actual question of dealing with drought, with crust. Because if we look not only at the Forests of the Czech Republic but also at small private forest owners, we really - and we look at the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, I'm afraid he doesn't count on the compensation that those owners really deserve. We believe that we need to work here, as well as on other measures that support the fight against drought. Go, you colleagues of Prague, see the Highlands how it looks. Maybe you'll have your eyes like I did for crying. So I would like to ask, although it is clear to me that the government and the government coalition YES, the ČSSD and the KSČM want and is interested in pushing through the budget, regardless of anyone, so let us seriously consider at least some amendments that make sense, have a head and a heel, not what would cause the minister any wrinkle on her forehead, because her budget will certainly not be ruined and good things will help. Overall, as I say, KDU-ČSL cannot and is not ready to support this budget, because, as I said at the beginning, from our point of view, it is a budget that is primarily focused on consumption and not on the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u21	Thank you. And I will now ask the Minister of Finance - do I understand so well that the Prime Minister has already spoken for the plaintiff? [[Yes.]] So you don't anymore. [[Later.]] Or the next phase when you sign up. I therefore call on the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, to speak, and then, after she has spoken, we will open the general debate and go in order. We have two priority rights there. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, let me just sum up what awaits us and what does not pass us when the debate is over. This means that we will vote first on the amendments, which are 164. When we vote on them, we will vote on approval of the State Budget Act. If this consent is given by the Chamber of Deputies, we will continue to vote on eight accompanying resolutions. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will begin with an annex to the letter. A, which is the Committee's amendments, there are four, and the rest - 160 amendments - are in Annex B, which are the amendments that were read in the second reading. So this is all my side, just so you know what awaits us. I would just like to say, if you were looking at the materials, so some of the cognitive proposals - there is one amendment that does not have a clear specification of the items, but I think, rather than arguing that it would be better to decide on it also by voting, and then there are four amendments that are unvoteable at the moment, unvoteable, because they are going against the government budget reserve, however, given that the three relate to the amendment that the ODS has given as a cross-cutting amendment, I think again, before we have far-reaching arguments, we will also decide on these amendments by voting, unless, of course, no one has any objection. This is my party, Mr President, all of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u23	So, I am now opening the debate in the third reading and in the proposed procedure. And I have two credentials for the floor first. First of all, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will speak, present the opinion of the MP's club and then be entrusted to the MP's club to present the opinion with priority rights, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. So I will ask Mr. Jan Hrnčíř and pass the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would therefore like to present the opinion of the SPD. The SPD will not support the state budget for 2020 for many reasons. The main reason, however, is the fact that this budget continues to be indebted to future generations. Although this proposal envisages higher tax revenues on astronomical 113 billions compared to this year. The government is unable to save a crown and is counting on a deficit of 40 billion. CZK, moreover, at a time of relatively significant economic growth. The government YES, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM does not manage with the care of a proper economic operator. In our opinion, the draft budget should be balanced or surplus. I consider it an alarming increase in the cost of state and public administration. It is totally unacceptable to re-extend individual budget chapters in areas of unaddressed social benefits inadaptable, inclusion in education, funding political and non-profit organizations and a number of foreign operations of our army. While the proposal envisages abolishing the number of civil servants' tables, but only those vacant ones, it does not actually reduce the numbers in the state administration and bureaucracy. The government also plans to recruit nearly 6,000. new civil servants. Several thousand of them are supposed to fill the so-called places. teaching assistants due to senseless inclusion in education. Those assistants have already requested 21,000 inclusions. The cost of inclusive education thus increases rocketically at the expense of the liquidation of a far more effective special education. And then this money is missing, for example, from teachers' salaries. In the last six years, the number of civil servants has increased by 50 thousand. persons, which increased the state budget by 35 billion. crowns a year. There were at least nine new state authorities and institutions. The SPD movement insists on substantial savings in the administration of the state. A permanent increase in the number of civil and public servants creates an artificial shortage of labour and a false need for the import of labour from abroad. The government continues to pursue a completely poor social policy of the state, as the benefits of material emergency are paid not only to the needy, but also to people who refuse to work. It's demoralizing and it's aggravating social problems. Expenditure on non-addressed welfare benefits from the state budget is increasing every year, and today, in a material emergency, it is basically everyone who asks for it. The government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM and also the previous government did not offer any solutions with the participation of KDU-ČSL. The SPD movement promotes the fundamental address of social benefits so that only people with working history, disabled people and their family members who take care of them, and not inadaptable citizens who have never worked, receive them, even though they can work in the long term, but do not want to do so. The expenditure of the Ministry of Industry and Trade intended to support the so-called renewable sources, i.e. solar parks crippling our landscape. For next year it is already 27 billion. CZK, which corresponds to two thirds of the proposed budget deficit. The total annual amount of support for renewable energy sources for 2020 should even reach almost 48 billion. Crowns. That means another almost 21 billion. CZK will be paid by all final consumers at ever-increasing energy prices. Despite the constant criticism by Prime Minister Babiš, the government has so far done nothing to reduce these expenditures, on the contrary, increasing them year-on-year in the state budget by another 800 miles. CZK and further increases people's energy bills. However, the Czech prices of food, housing and energy are among the highest in the EU compared to the average salaries that are against such countries as Germany, one third. Moreover, two thirds of our working citizens will not reach average wages. This leaves people with less and less money in their wallet. Members of the SPD submitted several amendments to the state budget totalling almost 5 billion. Crowns. These are transfers in individual chapters of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Industry and Trade and Ministry of Agriculture. These are, in particular, proposals for budgetary measures in areas of reduced inclusion expenditure in education, the means planned for a military operation in Afghanistan, the promotion of political non-profits, the promotion of employment policy or the promotion of renewable resources. On the contrary, we propose to increase, for example, the contribution to promoting the employment of disabled people, pension benefits, regional social services, the defence of our army, or the promotion of Syria's renewal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to support our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u25	Thank you, too. And now, with the first factual remark in this debate, Mrs Černochová, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I applied with a factual remark to respond to what the Prime Minister said. First, to the European army. 17. 7. 2019 The Prime Minister said: We should probably have a common army, at least it's more economical than holding still 27 different armed armies. - I don't know. Now, Prime Minister, you've told us you don't want the European army. As for a defensive pact or an offensive pact. Did you order Minister Metnar to negotiate a change to the Washington Convention? So to change what is the merit of this collective defense? Three. The Prime Minister here spoke about the purchase of MADR-radio-locators, multipurpose helicopters and other necessary techniques. However, the Prime Minister is quietly silent about the fact that during the critical period when this technique was to be purchased, the Minister of Defence was his nominee, Mr Martin Stropnický, under whose direction the key years were literally missed and we only heard promises or bows. Mrs. Šlechtová can tell the story. Just to remind you that the money for the aforementioned MADR radars, Prime Minister, was earmarked in the budget - do you know when? In 2015. Then why weren't they bought for Minister Stropnický? Why hasn't the contract been signed so far? Please ask nicely, the present ambassador in Israel, Mr. Martin Stropnický in Tel Aviv. And don't tell us anything that isn't true and that no ODS government really can and can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Thank you for this point of fact. I must point out that the factual points could not be applied earlier. And now, therefore, Mr Ferjenčík with priority rights, with the opinion of the Pirates' MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think President Ivan Bartoš has already spoken with the attitude of the pirát to a large extent. I, unlike Mr Babiš, do not intend to obsess over this point, so I will try to be as brief as possible. We have presented three fundamental amendments. The first one is economical, that's a reduction in state budget spending by 12.7 billion. Crowns. Two, on the contrary, using these saved funds. One ensures the strengthening of funding in the field of education. This will be discussed in more detail by colleague Bartoň. Furthermore, strengthening the financing of the repair and construction of railway infrastructure for 6 billion. Crowns. These are our fundamental amendments. I would also like to introduce you to the accompanying resolution that we are proposing. It is an accompanying resolution under the letter. B2 reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies, knowing that the capital of Prague, the city of Mariánské Lázně, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the Supreme Audit Office publish their budget and actual expenditure on the Internet in a more detailed view than required by Decree No. 323/2002 Coll., on budgetary composition, calls on the Government to initiate the development of a user-friendly system that will allow the publication of budget and actual revenue and expenditure of the state budget on the Internet in the format of open data, and by 20 November 2020, the Chamber of Deputies will become acquainted with the results it has made on this matter." In other words, Mariánské Lázně, Prague, the Supreme Audit Office, and even the Chamber of Deputies, thanks to our initiative, have a clicking budget, and we ask that the government set it up as well, and please support this accompanying resolution. [[16.10 hours]] With regard to the budget as a whole, we will certainly not support it without the adoption of our three main amendments. It's a budget made of inertia, without any plan the Prime Minister likes to wave around. So much for the Pirates Club. Once again, I ask for the support of the accompanying resolution, that the government catch up with Prague and start publishing the clicking budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u29	Thank you. So we are now coming to the debate, to the participants, where there are 17 entries. Mr Feri is the first to prepare Mr Navrkal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Prime Minister, I have waited patiently. It was waiting for the Prime Minister's fidelovský speech - I don't mean the content, but the length - quite long, but I like to get to the word and I'm forced to respond at least in part to the speech. I am aware that we will not discuss the audit until tomorrow, but yet I was very concerned about the words and reasoning of the Prime Minister, who, in an interview for the Right to the question, "So the Czech Republic is ready to sue for you?" He said, "How is it because of me?" Perhaps for taxpayers' money. Of course, the Czech Republic must fight to keep us from losing them." That sounds really crazy to me. Create some problem for the Czech Republic, for the government and for every citizen, and then say: well, yeah, we're actually here fighting for the taxpayers for their money. The problem the Prime Minister himself put those citizens into. So much for the audit, but I'm getting to the point, I'm getting to the State Budget Act. We, as the TOP 09, have introduced 27 amendments that interfere with the various state budget spectra into different chapters. My colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová has already introduced them here, which is why I'm only talking to certain ones, some of them, and actually sources of money from where we're getting from, and that's the fare discounts. It is owed to say that the discounts are not only - and this is very often seen - for young people, but also for seniors. And I'm going to deal with how these two groups of people can be helped without throwing 5.6 billion in the ups and downs every year, in the best case. I'm afraid it'll be more in the future. If we come out of wanting to accommodate a group of people in this way, the right-wing view is to reduce either their tax burden or help them in other ways, and to help really in places where these people live and in ways that are as effective as possible. Because the government can't centralize everything, the government can't hug everything and decide exactly where that billion is supposed to go. So if we talk about the young people, and it's common to the elderly, well, there's already a significant inequality in who drives the means of transport and who doesn't drive them. If you're a senior who doesn't use the train, doesn't travel, then suddenly you have no benefit from this government flagship. Similarly, if you are a student who studies within your permanent residence, walks to school or travels by public transport and there is no such bonification, it creates a significant inequality. So even in this, the proposal is very inconclusive. If we want to help young people, I guarantee you that they will thank you a hundred times more and with much less budgetary implications if you do not eat through their future, for example, if they do not drive cheap means of transport to a bad school, where there are no tools to teach, or there are teachers who are not motivated by sufficient salary appreciation. Just as I always tell my friends or young people who write me on this matter that I do, so of course I won't blame you for taking advantage of the discounts now that the state gives it to you. Stupid who gives, dumber who doesn't take. Of course. But please keep in mind that the state will take the money back several times in the future. And if I should - whether I am a constructive member of the opposition - mention some concrete proposals on how to help young people, I already have a few in mind, and we have already introduced some here, but they have been rejected. So it is necessary to increase the limit for agreements to carry out work from awkward 10,000 crowns. If the Prime Minister was talking about tax reductions or tax burdens as such, he has, of course, somehow neglected that, for example, tax discounts or limits on labour agreements remain the same for many years, leading to a gradual increase in the overall tax burden. That means there's CZK 10,000 since 2011, which you can earn in the brigade. Everyone knows it's going around. Everyone. Even at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, they just told me off record "well, it's going around." Every young person who's ever been on a part-time job knows it's going around. Everyone knows that. Everyone sitting here, we all know that. Then why don't we move it? Why is there a formal line? Why, when we suggested it here, was it rejected? When the budgetary impact would be up to 100 miles. crowns? It's hard to say, it's probably a lot harder to sell marketing than throwing billions at fare discounts like that. This is something that a large number of young people would appreciate. And the second evergreen is the abolition of the tax on the acquisition of immovable property. That's what everybody's been trying to do, and unfortunately, it didn't go through. Now it's suggested by the newly-designed SPD colleagues, and I can promise you that even if we disagree with the SPD colleagues on a lot of things, we will support their proposal here, because it just makes sense. Why tax already taxed money in this case? Why, in the time of the housing crisis, create another barrier for a young family to be able to afford their own property? Although, of course, the trend in Western Europe is that housing is very much rental. But if we were to abolish this tax, the budgetary implications that make it impossible make it some 13 billion. The crown, and here we have 5.6 billion. This could already cover, or the amount could be reduced, or the tax burden could be reduced. This is simply something to be published in support of young people. So is the discount on the taxpayer, respectively. discount on the taxpayer and discount on the student. Why are the readings still the same? Why aren't they increasing? Specific right-wing proposals that the left-wing government can never hear. So much for young people. We'll get to the seniors to help them. The most logical thing would be to give them a pension so that there's no injustice in the fact that someone travels, he gets the discount, someone doesn't travel and wipe. That would make sense. Or maybe direct the money to social services. That would make sense, too. Or to take this into account in the budgetary determination of taxes, because these are the basic principles of social legislation, some subsidiarity, that the mayor knows very well that he is struggling in his community with the lack of available housing for seniors, and maybe he could prove that if they had the money to touch it, they could build some apartments for seniors, like a nursing home or something like that. But unfortunately, the money isn't because they're going for fare discounts. I'm bohužel so. Totally wrong approach that we can't relate to. And unfortunately, it's one example of a hundred others that we can find in that budget. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing I must mention as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and this is a general effort to cut, and the assignment for individual departments, to cut within my chapters. Madam Secretary of Justice, she's not here right now, you know, I've told her repeatedly that I very much consider her trying to shield the effects from the courts. That she was trying to cut herself off at her own resort. So it doesn't make much sense that the legislative department of the Ministry of Justice, which is the one that processes the very often extremely difficult designs, will be cut, but so be it, that is just politics. Government policy, that was the political assignment of the Minister of Finance. [[16.20 hours]] However, what is the role of the state in the most basic sense, which actually follows from the social agreement itself? That we submit to the state to determine what law is and that the right can find it and then exonerate it. So if we say, "Well, we're not gonna give extra money to the administrative justice, we're not gonna give extra money to the insolvency sections of the regional courts," and we're gonna say, "we're gonna make more debt go away," yeah, but what does that mean? That a larger number of agendas deal with the same number of people. It will either reflect on quality, but I trust the Czech courts, I trust the staff that it will, unfortunately, show for them more work and more workload. Indeed, I would imagine - and we are not suggesting this in addition to these insolvencys as a concrete proposal - that must simply be adopted by the government - that the government should say and that the Minister of Justice should go to the Minister of Finance and tell her, I don't know whether you plead or say: look, Alena, I would need money for those courts. And doktorka Schillerová, because she's a lawyer, says, "Come on, Marie, Maruška, I don't know, Maruška, here they are, we'll make a deal, we'll meet in half. And the Minister of Justice will be leaving with 300 miles, which will help her significantly. And this isn't about the salaries of judges, as everyone says in the judiciary, and they have 140 grand. average monthly. That's not the point. This is about the salaries of the newcomers, such as the assistants of the judges, the judges, the executives, the reporters, who are taking 14,000 today. CZK a month, and whenever a secretary in the same city is offered more, like 25,000, well, who would do it at the courthouse for the money when she has a lot more responsibility. So underfinancing justice, or virtually. the fact that we have extremely good justice with regard to how much money we spend on it - which, by the way, also applies to education, for health care, we are probably such a handy nation - that is something that should be taken into account in the budget, in the draft budget for the next year. And I believe the Minister of Justice will adopt this in this particular case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u31	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Navrkal, Mr Bartoň will be ready in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present here and briefly justify my amendment under number B37, which increases the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and whose purpose is to fulfil our commitments more with regard to external development aid. Although it may often seem to us that development cooperation represents finances that simply flow abroad and help elsewhere, this is not the case. Its benefits are not negligible for the Czech Republic and serve our own interests. I have already named here the economic and security benefits that we have succeeded in promoting through development cooperation. Especially in the latter case, this is in the case of security, our assistance to destabilised regions is an essential part of e.g. preventing forced migration to Europe. Next, it is good to realize that we are not in an international political vacuum. Our concern is the safe, stable and democratic neighbourhood of the European Union. The events of recent years, whether we look at Ukraine, the former Yugoslavia, or the Middle East, clearly confirm this, because we always feel the effects of instability in these regions in our country. From the outset, the Czech Republic has been an active promoter of European Eastern Partnership policy aimed at strengthening cooperation with countries such as Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, and supporting their close relations with Europe. We have been very involved and also engaged in the area of former Yugoslavia, e.g. in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we want these countries to follow our example and keep them in orbit of free democratic countries, we must continue to be present in them and support not only their economic but also their social and democratic development. Otherwise, our presence threatens to replace Chinese or Russian capital and with it hand in hand towards us and our allies the unfriendly interests of these powers. To achieve these objectives, there is a whole repertoire of instruments and development, respectively. Transformation cooperation is one of them. Therefore, I would like to refer to the amendment under the number B42 of my colleague Kobza to reset the budget precisely for transformation cooperation. We are all aware of how crucial for democratic development in our country in the 1990's was the support from abroad and the vision of moving to Europe. It is now up to us to pay our debt and not resign to support the countries of Eastern Europe. Development work is not just about cooperation, it is not just about short-term projects, but especially about long-term objectives and for the reasons mentioned, its continued support is undoubtedly in our own national interest. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u33	I also thank you, and now Mr Bartoň in the debate, Mrs Golasowská will be prepared, then Mr Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Prime Minister, as I heard in your speech this morning, I have also been paying attention sometimes, you often mention the model of Finnish education. So I'm just going to focus purely on education, and my speech won't be that long. If you would like to achieve that the Czech Republic will have the same education as Finland, you have my sympathy and my support. Let's just say what it means to get close to the Finnish education that you mention so often. Thus, it must be said that Finnish schools satisfy the need of all pupils in the encampment area. Going the way of Finnish education means going the total inclusion. Schools provide the needs of all pupils in their area of activity. So if you go the way of total inclusion as well as Finnish education, you have my sympathies. Finnish education gives confidence to its schools, less control. The Fin canceled the school inspection. If you also want to cancel the Czech School Inspection, it is an interesting achievement, it will be more confidence for our schools. With regard to money, public money from public funds, Finland gives 5.6 percent of GDP per school. Purely out of public funds. Our Ministry of Education estimated that in 2019 we would reach a level of 4.4 percent of GDP from public funds to education, a methodology according to OECD countries, which makes the difference of 1.2% of the GDP given by Fin to education and what we give. In other words, the budget for the Ministry of Education lacks 64 billion. Crowns. Then we'd be giving out as much public money as the Fin are giving out for their education. The Fin have this thing that they've gotten the education to such a level that they're interested in the profession of a teacher. You yourself mentioned here in the past how many candidates, how many people apply to one teacher's place, that it's probably ten, forty people applying to one teacher's place. According to the OECD methodology it is also evident according to their statistics that Fin, Finnish teacher has 90 percent of the salary of a university-educated worker, while in our country it is close to 60 percent. Maybe it'll be more, these OECD issue numbers may not be up-to-date. Anyway, in order to get to where the Fin are, in order to overwhelm the interest in the profession of teachers, I will just point out that currently 6,000 teachers are missing in Czech education, and the moment the older ones retire, over 11,000 teachers will be missing. That means the directors don't have a choice with us the way the Fin do. In fact, they almost take anyone who goes by school. Then, in an emergency, these teachers are without proper pedagogical education. [[16.30 hours]] We set out here - in 2017 The Chamber of Deputies has given its resolution on where it would have imagined having teachers' salaries. She gave the resolution that they should be approaching - and called on the government to raise them to 130 percent of the average wage by 2020. The 130 percent average wage, as I recall, was already brought up by Social Democratic Minister Petra Buzková in 2003, and since then no one has been able to fill it or get close to it. In 2017, the challenge to 130 percent was even in line with your programming statement, which did not have a variable average wage, had a fixed amount, and due to rising wages - thanks to God, wages grew more than estimated - this difference occurred. I have asked the Ministry of Education to calculate how much the budget for the Ministry of Education would have to be higher in order to obtain this information, this resolution. The Ministry of Education said that his budget would have to be increased by 26 billion, then we would have reached a teacher's salary of 130 percent of the average wage with accessories. Our amendments, which have emerged here to the salaries of teachers, are not at all ambitious enough to propose 26 billion where we would like teachers' salaries to be at all. There are proposals of 5 billion, 3 billion, and that is only a few percentage increases. We, too, have tabled a proposal to raise salaries by 5 billion, by 3 billion, just so that we can at least get close to the minimum threshold that we have said here, and that is to get wages as close as possible to 130 percent of the average wage. After all, 130 percent of the average wage is one of the main objectives in the long-term aim of developing the school system. Then we agree on it. We will vote on many amendments. As I have noted, many of these proposals are opposition, but there is also one proposal from the Coalition Members. The support of the pirát, and I would say, in general, of all opposition parties, has all the amendments to the teacher's salaries. So I'll be looking forward to at least one of them coming out. And even if it were to be the amendment tabled by Mrs Valachová, I would be happy to do so, and I would be happy to do so sometime tonight, or maybe tomorrow morning I could congratulate her for going through this proposal. But I rather assume that we will talk about what it is like to have the support of opposition Members and not to have the support of Members of their own party. I also proposed Amendment B152 concerning the salaries of higher education teachers, the salaries of scientists and academics in universities. The government has made a statement that it would like to raise government salaries by 1.5 thousand, but it has been forgotten the salaries of higher education teachers, stating that higher education teachers do not receive salaries but wages. They don't have salary tables, they have wage tables. I don't think that's the right approach. That is why, in line with the declaration by the higher education unions, I proposed an amendment, where the higher education unions have calculated that a chapter for universities needs to be even increased by 320 million, so that even university teachers, scientists, academics have an increase in salaries of 1.5 thousand as civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u35	Thank you, too, and now, Mrs Golasowská, in the debate. Mr Jurečka will be ready, then Mrs Richterová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Let me also briefly comment on the state budget for KDU-ČSL in the area of funding social services, when I have actually talked about the lack of funding of social services in previous discussions at first and second reading. In the draft state budget submitted by the government, only CZK 17 561 million is proposed for social services for 2020. And since the Ministry of Finance expects an increase of CZK 1,500 from 1 January 2020 and the cancellation of the scale number 1, this amount is insufficient and needs to be increased to a total amount of CZK 19 billion, that is to say CZK 1 439 million. If the necessary amount of social services is not approved in the state budget, there is a real threat of instability of services in all regions, not only financially but also in personnel terms. Because we know that if we do not have funds to pay employees, this is reflected in the lack of labour, when social services workers actually go elsewhere, to other sectors, because they are better financially valued there. We know that this unfavourable situation has already occurred in previous years, 2016, 2017. Then it got a little better in 2018, but this year we witnessed actually endless arguing about increasing the funds that were lacking in social services. The long argument about raising funds this year was undignified for both providers and employees, and the financial uncertainty was reflected in the services provided to clients. The amendment, which I propose together with my colleague Mr Vítek Kaňkovský, wants to avoid a similar situation and to ensure the necessary amount, so that providers know from the beginning of 2020, with what financial amount they will manage, and that they can actually schedule the funds in advance for the whole year, and that the uncertainty of both providers and employees who often do not know whether they will have a job, whether they will not be reduced or released. It is therefore necessary to approve the necessary amount in the state budget for the whole year, because the so-called financing during the year brings great instability as well as an administrative burden both for providers and for regions. I therefore ask for the support of our amendment, which is under the number of House document 3788, as I have already spoken at second reading. I would also like to ask for the support of another amendment concerning the increase in funding to printed media and the promotion of cultural activities of national minorities, because I am from the Moravian-Silesian region, where the Polish national minority is very strong and there are other national minorities. And I have to say, unfortunately, that financial support for printed media and cultural activities has fallen by almost CZK 8 million over the last eight years. So across the political spectrum, together with my colleague Lenka Kozlová and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, we are proposing an amendment that this amount should be increased again and that the national minorities should be able to return the funds as they were in 2011 and before that. I also thank you for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u37	Thank you. And now in the debate, Mr Jurečka, Mrs Richterová, then Mr Čižinský, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u38	Thank you. Let me comment on two things. I will go back to the first part of what Prime Minister Babiš said at the beginning of today's meeting, because he was right about one thing, that we will not return anything to the European Commission, because when the European Commission concludes and calculates the amount it considers to be wrongly drawn, it will automatically withdraw the funds in the first tranche it pays to the Czech Republic as part of the financing of European funds. It's a common practice. It's been going on like this in the past. Only then does the Czech Republic have two remedies in principle to have a dispute with the European Commission, to make an argument about it. If that fails, then there is a chance in the European Court of Justice. So such a process is, indeed, the Czech Republic will not return anything, the European Commission will automatically tear it down in the first payment, which will follow after it closes this case. Now allow me, in substance, to draft the state budget. In fact, I have tabled two amendments, but I consider them to be very important amendments. Even today, the Prime Minister spoke in his opening words about the importance of climate change for this government, the important issue of water retention in the countryside, the fight against erosion, etc. One of my amendments goes to these objectives here in the mouth, because I am trying to increase the financing of land adjustments as an instrument that significantly helps municipalities and cities in the countryside, in the extravilement of municipalities, to make arrangements for nature to return as close as possible to natural ideal natural conditions, i.e. where necessary, so create drawbars, create break belts of alleys, realize also field roads, create ponds, wetlands, also make access to these landowners. Unfortunately, the current pace of land adjustments, which has slowed down over the last two years, shows that we will not have finished the land adjustments in the Czech Republic at this rate even in a hundred years. So I would like to propose a strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, chapter 329, on land treatment of 500 million. CZK so that next year these funds can be used for these projects. And then there's the second topic, and that's a really serious situation that's complicated especially for forest owners who are struggling with a catastrophic situation today, and especially the hardest economic situation that the smallest forest owners are experiencing, the much affected is the region of the Highlands, as the calamity continues to go by the Republic in view of what is the development of drought and the subsequent development of barking in a given year, because the hotter it is, the more dry it gets, so the more barking is multiplying, so that the next year and other regions will be affected. Unfortunately, that's the situation here, there's no easy way to stop it, we're really fully dependent on the weather. But what's crucial is that the owners of these forests can effectively fight the calamity situation, so they must also know that if they benefit, they will generate costs, so the sales price of the wood will not cover their costs today, and it is necessary to support the state to compensate them for the difference that arises in the loss. For next year, the Ministry of Agriculture does not have an allocation in its budget, which would count on the funds to compensate for the losses incurred by small forest owners. That is why I would like to propose strengthening this area of budget by 4 billion. CZK, which is the minimum amount estimated by forest owners, expert organisations bringing together forest owners to make it clear for next year: the government is counting on it, the budget is counting on it, the House approves it this way, so you who will intervene and eliminate the calamity in the woods, so you know you will not stay in the lurch. So I would like to ask for the support of these two amendments, although I am aware that perhaps the will of the coalition majority will not be here to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u39	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, Mrs Richterová, in the debate, will be prepared by Mr Čižinský, then by Mr Kaňkovský. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u40	Hello, thank you for your word. Greetings to the present members of the government, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would like to briefly remind you of what should be primarily involved in the budget - that is, a good perception of the context of where we can save ourselves by targeting our attention and our resources. Let me give you an example of such a connection. They're social and health facilities. Typically, when we save money in hospitals, when we cut off beds in hospitals, we just have to react in some way in the social system, because otherwise people just come back, and often worse. On the other hand, when support in the field is well managed, cheaper, faster and people preferred support at home is well managed, then it is possible to save it for example on the acute income of hospitals. That kind of perspective, that's the kind of connection I'd like from our government. The same link works in many areas of the state budget. I'll mention two more. I will mention education when we know again that what people live in determines also what the prospects of children that grow up in those conditions are. Instead of directing all our forces into the perspective of young people, in order for their potential to be exploited in the future, and not thrown away, instead, basically, our state is just focusing on some kind of crisis solution, solutions to the last instance, not on the preventive ones. Maybe I'll give you an example. It is a completely inefficient program of the Ministry of Education, which should support young people from a significantly disadvantaged environment in order to master high school - for example, there is a contribution to transportation to school, textbooks, and there are huge returns. We simply can't even effectively make such support. The last connection I want to make is housing. Once again, if people can get back into the system through stable housing, so that they can go to legal work and work, we'll all get paid. It's just the perspective we're looking at. On the contrary, it is very trivial that we do not actually adjust what municipalities are supposed to provide in relation to housing. Actually, it's not entirely clear who's supposed to do the active housing policy. It's left in space. And none of it's addressed. It stays entirely on a samosad. I want to point out that we live in a country, that even if you have a third degree of disability pension, you don't have to have more than a living allowance of 3,400 a month, and you don't even have to get a discount on transport at all, you don't even have to get a discount at all. That's what ties to the card, the ZTP card, and not the fact that you're an invalid pensioner. And in such an unsystemic country, a country that simply lets people fall in an illogical way, I try to alleviate at least two things with the amendment. The point is, we have a really simple cheap tool, it's such a special dose, a dose of extra immediate help, and the government itself has statistics that it's very effective through this mop to promote bail for housing. The fact that people who don't have bail saved so that they can move to another apartment by helping with the certainty, with the composition of two to three months' rents at the same time. It's something that typically costs 15 to 20 grand. We have an official number that 80 percent of the families then, after a year, still live in that apartment, and there's no trouble. So this is one example of a measure that works, it's cheap, it's effective, we can do it, it's in place, it's just that budget item is being cut, it's just reducing the amount to be allocated. [[16.50 hours]] So this is my Amendment No. 3870. It really concerns that we can support about 2,000 in this way. households, and I suggest we set aside 50 miles. Crowns. I am only concerned and only that the labour authorities know that they have this amount at their disposal, and can effectively intervene in this way in cases of crisis, in cases of a life situation that cannot be foreseen. The second thing is that although the budget includes the Construction programme, money for municipalities for housing, there is no guarantee of binding and, in many cases, necessary so-called social work. It is about accompanying those families, and it is also necessary to be clear which would not have been able to manage the housing without it. The point is, again, that the social work performance is paid for by municipalities in an unstable way. I propose Amendment No 3871 to raise the amount, and the most ideal thing would be for the future to be money for social work in housing, which is proven to be effective again. Again, even in the most complex cases, it costs 50 grand. for a household for a year to stabilize people, and then they're working. And we've got numbers, pilot projects, it's known, but it doesn't support our state systemically. So I would like to politely ask for the support of these amendments, to draw attention to the system view in the finals that will save us all money except that it will save us some suffering and the feeling that our society is not working justly. And on the other hand, it will allow us to be even more stringent at the moment when someone, and that is also happening, is using the system beyond measure. I'll mention one last thing. In that complex view, the socio-health area makes about 470 billion of those public budgets. crowns a year. Adding pensions to that, about 440 billion more. CZK for pensions, so we're already at 910 billion. Crowns. In the finals, what I mentioned as examples of effective measures, I mentioned 50 miles. as a possibility of bailing out apartments, so compared to the total amounts that we are putting into the social health system anyway, it is spit into the sea, but quick and timely steps in the area of housing will then save from these billions in the finals. Thank you for your attention and for any support for the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u41	Thank you. And now, therefore, Mr Čižinský, who I do not see at the moment, so we will move him to the end. And please Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Holomčík will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u42	Good afternoon. Mr President, Madam Minister, Members of the Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, let me also comment on the draft state budget at third reading. I must say that, as I listened to the Prime Minister and some others, I am convinced for myself and for the KDU-ČSL that the government's proposed budget does not meet the expectations and needs of the citizens of the Czech Republic and, above all, it is dangerous for the future of our country. At a time of still very good economic condition in the Czech Republic, the government invests at least in so much needed infrastructure of the country, in health, social services, education, but also in the development of new technologies and, last but not least, in the so much needed fight against climate change, whether it is about the fight against drought, on measures to ensure drinking water, or on the fight against barking calamity, as well as on the sustainability of our diverse landscape. In my opinion, even in the opinion of KDU-ČSL, the government is kind of eating through the future of our children, and KDU-ČSL can hardly accept that. I would now like to remind you of my four amendments to the field of social services and health. The first of the series of amendments, or several of the first amendments, I submitted with my dear colleague Pavla Golasowská. She has already mentioned them in part here and I will try to complete it. It has also been said here, and it may still be said here that the problem of funding social services is becoming such a disgraceful black moth for this House, and I am very sorry that we are talking about this issue here every year in the state budget and year after year in the first half of the following year we are arguing here how to get the missing money into social services. I would also like to remind you that last year, not only I for the KDU-ČSL club, it was 800 million, but also representatives of Pirates and ODS and some others proposed the financing of social services. Unfortunately, there was only a small amount of acceptance at that time, and not even two months passed, and we were already standing here and we saw how social services could not cope with it, and then it was hours, or tens of hours, extraordinary meetings, extraordinary points, so that we could ensure the smooth running of social services. We have talked many times here about the lack of money in social services, especially on salaries. Unfortunately, that's still true. But it should be recalled that, as inflation is going on in our country, other inputs, whether energy, services or, for example, food purchases, have become significantly more expensive to social services. And how should the headmaster act, for example, a senior home when he sees rising invoices for energy or for buying food and other material for running a senior home, and on the other hand, he has over-the-counter components of his employees? What does he have to do in the end? If he stops paying the invoices, he gets his home for seniors into insolvency. That means he's finally gonna pay the invoices and have to cut off the excess files of the workers. And then we get to what is in the last period and especially in the last weeks, and I have to say that rightly, criticised, and that is the quality of work, and here I want to say only in some social services facilities. But can we be so surprised? If workers in social services are long-term underfunded, they have a huge amount of overtime, and they're being touched by over-the-counter folders, do we really think that then we can really motivate them to be passionate about their work? A tired, poorly rated worker will never be the right worker and in the health and social services sector. Therefore, we dare to propose the financing of social services by a minimalist version, because as we speak to providers, the need is somewhere over 2 billion. Kroner, but we know that sober estimate is 1.5 billion. We also know, or it has already been announced in the media, that the government coalition is ready to support the amendment from the KSČM workshop, which will increase the original proposal by 600 miles. Crowns. That's why we optionally lost another 900-mile increase. CZK, in several variants, in order to actually be able to choose from the financing point of view, so that the resulting amount is 1.5 billion. Crowns. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the amendments under letter B6, at least in variant B6.2 or B6.3. I will also get to the amendments concerning health care. The amendment under B8 supports 30 million. further development of palliative and hospice care. Here I must say that the government has been dedicated to hospice and palliative care in recent years. They are also paid thanks to health insurance companies. However, as the budget proposed for 2020, even with some unused expenditure from past years, I believe that this dynamically developing segment of palliative and hospice care needs an increase. I therefore dare ask you to support this amendment. [[17,00 hours]] The third amendment reflects, from my point of view, the catastrophic underfinancing of investments in faculty hospitals and other directly managed organisations of the Ministry of Health. This year, the government repeatedly admitted that over 70 billion are missing from short-term investments in faculty hospitals and other directly managed organizations. Crowns. Unfortunately, we do not have an adequate response in the draft state budget for 2020. And I am convinced that we have an example here in our regions. It is, of course, a region with the help of European funds, which must be said, that their hospitals, which they are setting up, have financed in this respect. Today, when we go to the region of established hospitals across the Czech Republic, in most cases we will find modern spaces that fully suit both patients and health professionals. Unfortunately, this is not the case in many cases in faculty hospitals. And we don't have to go far. We can also look around some of the facilities here in Prague. Therefore, we would like to propose, for the KDU-ČSL club, the financing of investments in directly managed organisations by 500 million. Crowns. Still, we realize that it is still very, very little. I would like to ask you to support this amendment under the designation B9. And the last amendment, which also goes to health care, I spoke about it here at second reading, which should address one slightly unpleasant issue concerning the grant title for the Institute of Hand Surgery and Plastic Surgery in Vysoké nad Jizerou. I spoke here about the fact that the subsidy for the completion and reconstruction of this very important specialized centre, to which patients from all over the Czech Republic commute and which is a European recognized workplace, has already been approved for the state budget of 2017. Unfortunately, at the beginning of 2018, the Ministry of Health annulled the decision and then it took several months for the grant title to be renewed. I don't want to go back to the past. It can happen, though, of course, I'm sorry about the situation. At the moment, however, the particular current situation is that the founder of this facility, which is the city of Vysoké nad Jizerou, and the provider competed with the price for the planned project, but also given what has happened on the construction market in recent years, the competitive price is significantly higher than the expected price. In these circumstances, neither the provider nor the founder was able to carry out this action and had to cancel the selection procedure. Now both the town of Vysoké nad Jizerou and the provider themselves face the question of what to do next. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I took the liberty of proposing the financing of this grant title by 30 miles. CZK to enable this important event to be carried out. Today we still had negotiations with the Minister with other Members who have long been interested in this problem, whether this is Mr Pražák, I must say that other Members from the region, such as Mrs Pastuchová, are also interested in this Čižinský, and we have been looking for a solution to this problem. At this point, I want to say that today isn't the most important thing if we find the 30 miles at this point. to finance, but whether by the Ministry of Health, and his head is Minister Adam Vojtěch, whether there will be a certain public statement that he perceives this problem and is ready to address it. At the moment, the situation is that the founder and the hospital management are preparing a modified project, a new public contract will have to be carried out, and on this basis, I call on the Minister of Health to look for a way to complete the project through negotiations with the founder and relevant departments at the Ministry of Health. As an orthopedic surgeon, I can say that many of my patients, but other experts across the Czech Republic would also argue that this institute has really repaired its health and brought thousands of people back to their full lives. Among them are top musicians, athletes, but also simple craftsmen or children who were born with innate development flaws of their hands, and this institution returned them to a full life. I am convinced that both the citizens of Vysoké nad Jizerou and patients from all over the Czech Republic are waiting for a certain political guarantee from the Minister of Health, and I would like to call on him here at the plenary that the problem will be solved, I know it is still a certain way, and he has given them a guarantee that he is ready to complete the project. In that case, I think everyone will be happy. And this isn't about a political struggle. This is about solving this particular problem that concerns patients from all over the Czech Republic. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support all of my amendments, and I ask the Minister politely to comment on this last problem - the Institute of Surgery in Vysoké nad Jizerou. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u43	Thank you, too. I am pleased that there are more Members in the House. However, I would ask for peace. I have Mr Faltýnek's prior rights, so Mr Holomčík will wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very quick, I won't keep my colleague Holomčík. I would like to propose, on behalf of our parliamentary club and social democracy club, a procedural proposal for the Chamber of Deputies to act today, and to vote on all proposals in terms of territorial and procedural terms after 19 and 21 hours, respectively. That means until midnight tonight at the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u45	This is a proposal for us to vote today and act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms after 19 and 21 o'clock until midnight tonight. My fellow Members are still coming to the ballroom, so I will wait a little longer. For those who have arrived now, I repeat, a procedural vote awaits us to act and vote after 19 and 21 o'clock, until midnight tonight. Looks like everybody's here. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 146 vote, 193 Members and Members are registered, for 132, against 3. The motion was accepted. I state that today we will continue to act after 19 and 21 o'clock until midnight tonight. I now ask Mr Holomčík, who is next, then Mrs Krutáková. Mr. Ambassador, before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace of mind. I think it will take some time for the House to, if necessary, empty itself of those who wish to discuss matters other than the state budget. [[Some Members leave the hall.]] And those who remain, I would ask for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not quite easy for me to speak after a few hours in the morning, actually quite obstructive defiles of crap and lies that we have witnessed here, so I will be very brief. I would like to ask you to support three of my amendments to the state budget, which aim, first, to obtain 14 million in support of veterinary supervision at the detention centres so that fewer animals are transported to slaughterhouses which are some distance from where they are kept. [[The noise lasts.]] We're also asking for 120 million for a melioration mapping project to prove -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u47	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u48	Thank you, Mr President. In addition, we ask for CZK 120 million to secure the project of mapping the meliorations so that we can somehow work systematically and better with our landscape. And the third amendment asks for $400 million for land adjustments so that we can fight drought more effectively. So I beg you politely, I ask you to support these meaningful proposals. [[17.10 hours]] And at the end of my brief speech, I would like to respond to one statement that the Prime Minister, who is not here right now, is releasing here and in the media, and that is something about candidate number 13 in the elections to the European Parliament, candidate number 13 of the Czech Pirate Party. So the candidate number 13 of the Czech Pirate Party in the elections to the European Parliament was doktor Šalamoun, who is probably the biggest Czech expert in modern interpretation of copyright at that time. And it certainly has nothing to do with any audit authority of the European Union. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister indirectly if he's interpreting something in the media to study it first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u49	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Krutáková, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u50	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you, in my brief contribution, to support my amendment. My amendment is conducted as B21 and concerns land adjustments. You have certainly noticed that this is the third amendment, which concerns land adjustments, and it is therefore clear that this is a rather important issue. Land treatment is a key tool not only for systematic water retention in the landscape, but also for the creation of correct anti-erosion measures, and it is therefore desirable to pay sufficient attention to them and adequate financial resources. However, these resources have stagnated in recent years. In the programme statement of the current government, we read - I quote: We consider measures against drought and efforts to contain water in the countryside to be a matter of the highest public interest. We will financially support and simplify the authorisation process to rebuild or build thousands of smaller water tanks in the landscape, hundreds of new sources of drinking water for the population, we will also support innovative waste water disposal methods, such as domestic sewage treatment plants, and measures to replace drinking water for rain where possible. We will ensure better legislative and substantive protection of water resources and, above all, sources of drinking water. Furthermore, I continue to quote: In the context of the priority public interest to contribute in the territory of the Czech Republic to increase protection against floods and to prepare and implement measures against drought and water shortages, even with regard to future generations. For this reason, I believe that my amendment is fully in line with the programming declaration and the Government's promises, and so I am asking for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u51	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Before arriving at the microphone, I will introduce you to the apology of the Minister of Transport Kremlík, who apologizes between 17 and 18 o'clock for participation in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support our amendments tabled by the Mayors and Independents Club. Our biggest and most important amendment is the increase in the salary of teachers, so that they reach 15 per cent, i.e. the increase in 15 per cent. As has been said here several times, this promise has been made by the Prime Minister, so we are trying to fulfill this promise. It is clear that the only real benefit for teachers is the increase in salaries and the amount of their rewards, yet there are no other benefits. And we also know that, as the Ministry of Education has said, 2,000 teachers are missing and up to 11,000 will be missing in five years. This is why it is important for the education sector to become a competitive sector, so that teachers do not leave or, on the other hand, that students go to teaching faculties and then head to our schools. We think that the level of education in the Czech Republic is important to us. Once again, as I have said here several times, 100 percent of the population will pass through teachers' hands, so teachers will raise our future generations and in a way also decide what our state will look like in the future and whether it will be competitive. So I ask you to support this amendment, because this increase is an investment in the future and a highway for prosperity. The second largest amendment is an increase in the repair and construction of regional communications, i.e. the communication of the second and third classes. It is worth CZK 4 billion and is heading to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Once again, every year the regions are promised to receive money, this increase will never appear in the state budget. They'll start negotiations around March, and then they'll deny it. they find some money, but that's often too late, because they have to invest, and that's not a lot by the end of the year. So we just put these four billion crowns in the state budget. For us, a very important amendment, virtually. they are four, is an increase in grant titles to the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools. Today, the Prime Minister spoke of inventing, introducing, paying a subsidy title at the Ministry of Finance. I'm not going to argue with this, but it's not entirely true. However, the grant title worked perfectly and indeed a number of schools increased capacity and this is very important. However, we have also noted that this subsidy title, although it has proven itself very well, is still in demand because capacity is still lacking and there is a need for large investments especially in smaller municipalities, so we have learned that the subsidy title will not be announced this year. But the Prime Minister said today that they had changed their mind and that they would continue the grant title. So I am asking the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance whether, under the circumstances that have been raised here, we will support our amendment, which concerns that this subsidy will be increased by another CZK 300 million, so that it can be declared and elementary schools can be built especially in the vicinity of large cities. Other titles that are important to us are kindergartens. We know that a number of classes have been built, but we also know that an estimate in thousands of municipalities is recorded the need for around 6,000 places in kindergartens that are missing, and a total of 3 billion crowns would be needed. And I can tell you this case from my village of Chyn, where I learned that next year more than a hundred places will be missing in kindergarten for three-year-olds who should have a guaranteed place in kindergarten. So I hereby ask the Ministry of Education for support, as well as the Ministry of Finance and above all you, esteemed colleagues, to support the reintegration of this subsidy title and to send money of 300 million to our municipalities for the construction of kindergarten schools. Then we have two other grant titles, which also concern primary and kindergarten schools, and I am asking for your support. [[17.20 hours]] Among other things, there has been talk through Minister Zaorálek about what he lacks in this budget. And I was a little surprised that he didn't mention that he was missing enough money in the budget for really 40,000 cultural monuments. The six grant titles that are used for their renewal even have a lower amount than this year. That is why I ask the Minister whether he will support you, as well as your colleagues, of course, I ask the Minister whether he will support the amendment which increases these subsidy titles to a total of CZK 1 billion. I think, given that, according to one study at the Ministry of Culture, the internal debt on cultural monuments that are not owned by the state is CZK 300 billion, I think that the 239 million we're increasing it by is a drop in the sea, but it could definitely help the sights. And I think it is good support for both tourism and employment in the regions. I would also like to ask for support for an increase in the grant title in live art, namely by an amount of CZK 84 million, especially for salaries and also for the grant title, which is for large festivals, because if there is no CZK 100 million in this item, this subsidy title will not be open, as the Government's resolution says. [[Noise in the hall.]] Last but not least, we are asking for an increase in money for local communications. We know that, according to mapping, there is a need for some CZK 200 billion in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants, so I think that CZK 300 million will help again because of the need. My colleague, Rakušan, has amendments concerning drug policy, so I also ask for their support, and, of course, my colleague Farský tries to fight for the Mountain Service, which has been reduced by the budget, and his increase is CZK 50 million, so I think that due to the need and excellent work of the Mountain Service, this organisation deserves funding. And last but not least, we have the Railway Authority and the Railway Inspection. There it would also be good to support our amendment, and this concerns an increase in the salaries of the Railway Authority's employees by CZK 3 million and a railway inspection of almost CZK 600,000. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I ask once again how please you will vote on amendments concerning the Ministry of Finance and Primary School Capacity and also the amendment to the Ministry of Education at kindergarten, or we still know that capacity is insufficient. [[Noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for hearing my report on our amendments, and I very much hope that you will support some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u53	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u54	Good evening, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Madam Government, Members of Parliament. To begin with, I do not share the opposition's reservations about the draft budget. As they say, politics is a possible art, and I think that both the Minister of Finance and the Ministers for Social Democracy have, of course, done a maximum of what they could do when negotiating the sums needed for their ministries. I will therefore support the draft budget as a whole. However, I would like to briefly touch on the three areas covered by some of the amendments that we have tabled and which we will decide on before we approve the budget as a whole. The three areas that I am very interested in and I would like to draw attention to are education, defence and the non-profit sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the father of the founder of the Czech modern statehood Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said that he is a bad state that pays its generals better than teachers. I do not want to contradict the salary of generals or soldiers in general, but I am convinced that education and education must really be the most important thing. It's what's going to the future. I don't want to live in the wrong state. And I certainly don't want my descendants living in the wrong state. Therefore, in full compliance with the resolution of the Education Union Bureau, I will support the amendment by Kateřina Valachová and Václav Votava to increase the amount of CZK 3 billion in the education budget. I am just very sorry that the Minister of Education himself did not apply this amount more strongly to enable us to implement the reform of regional education funding. These funds, which are proposed by Kateřina Valachová and Václav Votava's amendment, are indeed needed to start the reform of regional education funding. It's a project, it's a system project that everyone in school has been waiting for for for a long time. And you know that we've already postponed its launch, and we can't push it any further if we want to be a competitive country if we really want to go to the future. If we want to improve our education, we simply cannot do so without this systemic change. And I believe that we agree both with YES and opposition. If, ladies and gentlemen, we should consistently apply that statement by Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, who paraphrased that we must support education, we would not take money into education from the administration of the state debt, but from the Ministry of Defence. I'm stressing again, not on the soldier's salary. I am not sure that raising the Ministry of Defence budget by 9 billion is what we really need. I stress, however, that I understand the need for an undisputed incorporation of the Czech Republic in NATO structures and, of course, as a Member State of the European Union, in the context of an international situation. I'm not gonna discuss it. I'm not an expert. I also know that a possible amendment to limit this amount would be impassable, and that is why I did not propose it, but I would like to appeal very and very much to both the Ministry of Defence and our government as a whole: if we are actually fulfilling NATO's international commitment, how much money we are giving to defence, then let us think a lot about how to do it and where to direct this money so that it can be used really for the benefit of the citizens. [[17.30 hours]] For example, we have one of the most successful volunteer firefighters in the world. Repeatedly, world champions or first places in fire sports are individuals and teams. Just a quick recap: In 2012 Jakub Pěkný - World Champion in Turkey, in 2015 Vojtěch Klenka - World Champion, Petr Maleš in 2017 World Champion - held in the United States, in 2018 our team was again World Champion. In this year at the Saratov World Championship, Tereza Chovancová won the World Championship, Petr Bělíček, Dana Batulová were bronze and Dan Klvaňa made a world record and became world champion. There is not one indoor hall in the whole Czech Republic, which would allow training for fire sports even during the winter. It just isn't. Professional and voluntary firefighters are those who, if necessary, would have to defend the state, any crisis, whether military or as a result of some natural disaster, would have to be together with soldiers and, of course, with police officers in the front line. It would therefore be logical for their financial support from the budget, which we have to defend. And again, I'm not questioning the security of the soldiers. But we could find more examples of where money and bow defense could go. At random, the Czech Red Cross - part of the integrated rescue system. Enhanced physical education in schools, sport as such, greater security for citizens. I'm sure the DOD would find another good direction. And we, as the Czech Republic, will be able to boast that we are one of the most peaceful countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts may seem naive to you, but I assure you that to the west of us in parliaments from Japan through India, New Zealand, African countries, countries of the European Union, the US and Canada are growing in parliaments efforts to reduce nuclear weapons, to limit arms as such. Members and members of the Association of Parliamentaries against Nuclear Armament and Disarmament, which I am to be a member of, in their countries, count, among other things, what could be, what could be given to citizens if the world were to rid itself of the risk of nuclear disaster. But that's another story so far. About that some other time. And it would be a long story. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I cannot support the amendments aimed at limiting financial support to non-governmental non-profit organisations. Nonprofit organizations make services cheaper for the state than anyone else, whether they are commercial entities, but also the state. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, volunteers will work in non-profit organizations for 47 million hours and the value of their work is estimated at CZK 7.1 billion. According to data on the whole sector, organisations provide more than half of their services free of charge and another one quarter at lower than market prices. With each project, these organisations must compete for support from the state and show the funds they receive to the last koruna. I really reject the labels that nonprofit organizations use. They're very, very different. I say that in the Czech Republic 140 000 organizations are registered from the Beekeepers' Association to voluntary firefighters, sports associations and interest associations to organizations helping handicapped, homeless or drug addicts, organizations helping in the humanitarian area or seeking greater transparency of public administration. The funds from the state budget are approximately 6,700 of them. It's statistics. It is also very misleading, and I think we should not use this label as political nonprofits. Nonprofit organizations do not do politics, but they have the right to an opinion, they have the right and they do, and I think it is necessary to appreciate it, to help draw attention to neglected topics. Therefore, I cannot support it either, and I reject Mr Klaus Jr.'s real amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the state budget as a whole, but let us think about which of the amendments we will or will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u55	I thank the Member and Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry, but I couldn't even listen, let alone stand it. I apologize to my colleague Gajdůšková, but I have not seen such a mixture of various proposals, thought flows from armed to security forces for a long time. I would perhaps recommend to my colleagues from social democracy, if they did not declare Mrs GajdůGajdůšková as experts in some area, they would not put her either on the Security Committee or on the Defence Committee, because if Mrs GajdůGajdůšková were sitting there, she might understand the difference between the security forces and the armed forces. These are two distinct congregations, my colleague through the Vice-President. And volunteer firefighters, that's a separate chapter. They're actually under municipal authority, under the county. Of course, they cooperate with those firefighters who are security forces and who are therefore members of it within the security forces. So you should conclude from my statement that these are two different budget chapters, maybe even three, because I think that part of it has the Ministry of Regional Development. You know, we're part of the North Atlantic Alliance, we were celebrating the 20th anniversary, and if you want to cut the funds for acquisitions and you think the armament, as you said, is wrong, then maybe you should really reconsider whether you want to be in a government that, thanks to God, supports our NATO membership.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u57	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak in the general debate. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the last explanation of the amendment that I tabled in the state budget in the proposal for 2020 for an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I would like to point out once again that this amendment does not undermine the structure of the budget, it makes use of the means that, on the basis of macroeconomic calculations and the fact that time is approaching, we already have December 2019, shows that there are funds in the administration of the state debt that we can make use of without compromising the operation of the state debt. So much for a reminder in terms of maintaining the structure and composition of the budget, on which work was undoubtedly done in 2019. I would like to remind this Chamber of Deputies, both to colleagues from the coalition parties and to colleagues from the opposition parties, that it was all of us, Members and Members, who, in December 2017, supported repeated increases in the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the continuation of reform of regional education, the continuation of wage growth - here I am not only referring to educators in regional education but also to educators in higher education, so this resolution reads. We did it across the political spectrum, we did it in agreement. And that is why we did this - and I proposed this proposal at the time, and I also supported it before, and I note, if I am not mistaken, my colleague Vostrá will possibly supplement me, but I believe that that was also supported by the Committee on Budgets. We did it in the following situation, I want to remind you. Even then, as always, and I confess to you, every year it repeats itself, overreacting about whether we have enough funds for social services, transport constructions and education. I must say, in a way, this debate repeats itself year after year. We were then - and here I am pointing out that I was working together on this amendment, and together we agreed that we would support social services directly. Of course, the former Finance Minister did not have an easy position because at the last minute she had to deal with billions for additional social services, beyond the original draft budget. We preferred social services to reminisce about it. Following transport construction in December 2017, we adopted the accompanying resolution and we said yes, as soon as possible, in 2018, the government will give the means for transport construction. That's what happened. This means that the government has fulfilled both the increase of funds in social services and the increase of means for transport construction. We've done both of these things. In December 2017, we were in a situation where, so to speak, we had no billions left to settle the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, as we would like, and that is why we adopted the accompanying resolution on the budget. That's why. Now we are in a situation where the accompanying resolution - which I am pointing out is still valid, has not been repealed, and I personally think that this House will never cancel it - is not fulfilled, despite the efforts of the government, which is undoubtedly and can be documented, about increasing the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Personally, I believe that if the Prime Minister here - and I have identified with these macroeconomic parameters and his justifications the development of public finances, he spoke here about the growth of gross domestic product, he also spoke here and documented charts the excellent development of the debt of public institutions and the development of state debt, and I note this has a pretty significant impact on how here and how much we need to service public debt, it was freshly mentioned by the Prime Minister here, I note that he has actually said such data that I did not know and that only confirms that there are funds in the administration of state debt - so if all of this has been said, I ask why now, in December 2019, three years later, not that we will fill it, because that would have been the 60 billion, as it has been said here, but that we will approach him a little bit more, if we have the resources, why we all of us who supported it three years ago will not raise our hand. I'm saying this in a very calm voice, but I actually admit that I've been thinking about it for months and I don't understand why we don't. Second thesis. I realized that in the case of the State budget for 2020, the government - this was the result of the contributions from previous colleagues - had a very difficult task. We had to deal with having public funds, and the Ministry of Finance had to deal with this with families with children, which means increasing parental contribution mainly, to increase pensions for seniors and seniors, and at the same time to have enough to increase the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, teachers and teachers, their evaluation, but also non-teaching staff. It seems like an almost unsolvable puzzle. Yes, no doubt what we have in our budget is a compromise in some way. I confess to you that in the case of teachers and teachers, I am very sorry for the rhetoric that, from my point of view, comes up again, when we pretend that teachers have had enough, they are simply already covered in gold, or we are even doing surveys on the fact that most people think that teachers and teachers have enough, well, we're not giving them anything. So let me tell you why people think, and they seem to think it's true, why teachers and teachers have enough. Well, 'cause every year, they hear teachers get 15%. But they haven't even gotten them once, not once. I quote, this is no false populist statement. That's the reality of the state closing account every year. I had the pleasure of reporting those last two. So maybe that's why we could think about the fact that if we're doing well in macroeconomic terms, we have the money and we can use it, so why don't we do it. As regards the support for this amendment, the support is expressed by both employers' associations and employees' organisations, all teachers' associations, school unions, directors' associations. I also mentioned, at second reading, that I am not pleased that the Union of Towns and Municipalities is not entirely satisfied with the setting of the budget and does not know what will happen from 1 January. I am not saying anything in detail, I do not feel or need to discuss it here, especially because I am a coalition MP, and I think that the government is trying, both this and the previous, to do much for increasing the budget, and there would be no point in denying it. What I do not understand is why, if there is such a broad consensus and if we Members of Coalition, I mentioned, the resolution of December 2017 supported, why we simply will not support the amendment, which is neutral. Madam Secretary of Finance, I have listened very carefully to her through you, Mr President, to say three conditions for her as a professional in support of the amendments. First thing. I don't want an intervention in the state budget structure, we've done a lot of work on it. - I believe that this amendment satisfies this. It relates only to the operation of state debt and specific current numbers. Second thing. There must be compliance with the government's programming declaration. - Here too, I believe there is consistency. I note that this is also the fulfilment of the House's resolution. I also note that this is the House, which means coalition, opposition, who control the government. When else than in the state budget? And the third thing. Support for the budget as a whole. This, too, I believe, is fulfilled. Finally, I would like to mention that the Prime Minister said here - a vision of the country's direction, say, the new Baťův state. About where we want to get our country. I identify with that vision. However, I must say that if we want to achieve it, there is no point in hesitating or delaying enough to support the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports already. So as to what the 3 billion should be used for, I just want to say that in the justification for the amendment, which I have not only worked out, but also my colleague Václav Votava, we draw particular attention to this - and it sounds not only here, but also in the public area, everyone is blaming it on how we feel about the fact that schools do not have the textbooks that we want them to have on innovation, how we want a safe environment, how we want them to have on school prevention methodologies, how we want them to have on classroom supplements. We don't have all that in our budget. [[17.50 hours]] And what bothers me most is that in the case of the ONIV special item, this amount - I think it is very dangerous when we start the reform of regional education funding - does not raise the crown, and I must say that I am absolutely shocked that not increasing this item means that we are facing against each other the legal demands of teachers and teachers, for example, from sickness and children's right to free school attendance in the case of textbooks. I don't understand at all. I don't understand. It's like, as a government, we've baked a cake, decided to hand it over to the teachers, and at the last minute, they're pissed off that we're not gonna give them frosting and candy. I don't understand at all. I don't understand politically. I also do not understand why we are not all fighting for this together, and why the amendment, which was intended to address the challenge of employers' and trade unions, was to address the call of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, was to address the challenge of teachers' organisations and directors' associations, and is in line with what we all, colleagues, agreed on in December 2017, so why we dispute about it. Finally, I would like to say that there is a large generational variation in teachers and teachers. I overheard in the machine guns, and I have to say I'm kind of freaking out from one political party that teachers and teachers don't vote for us. So dear friends, maybe I'll surprise you. I don't care. On the contrary, I want teachers and teachers to be the best and teach my children. I don't need to be voted. If they decide, of course I'll be glad, I won't fight back. But that's why we don't put money in education so teachers and teachers vote for us. We're doing this for our kids. I also heard that we need to focus on seniors and seniors, seniors and pensioners. Because I know that our seniors and seniors are watching this meeting on late nights, I can assure you that this is what I really want. That is why this government also increases pensions. With regard to generational variation, I would like to draw your attention, perhaps some marketers of some political parties will find it interesting that in the coming years, one third of teachers and teachers will become pensioners and pensioners. There's a generational variation. So now the real salaries - not what we promise them, the ones on the tape - affect their pension height. And may I point out to you that many of them are looking at whether we are going to pay them well now after x years of their work and they are going to have a dignified pension because now it's calculated from these amounts or not. Of course, we can decide not to give them what is due to them, and then graciously add it to their pensions in two in three years. This can also be a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the amendment meets the criteria raised by the conditions of support for the amendment, or the budget, is no longer anti-coal, on the contrary. I beg all of you to support him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u59	Thank you. Mr Martin Baxa will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u60	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I'll only allow myself a short reaction. I, actually, as I must agree with everything that Mrs Valachová has said here, regardless of the ageing teaching choirs, the lack of teachers, 6,000 missing in September of this year, regarding the promises that have been made here, the increase in the salaries of teachers, etc. But I must confess, through the President, to what I do not understand, it is the very beginning of your speech. Because whether the amendment passes or fails is in your hands and the members of social democracy. It's that simple and simple. We were already informed during the preparation of the budget that the coalition partners from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia had pushed their proposals, they were approved by the Committee on Budgets, the Minister announced that she was ready to support them in the state budget, so I wonder why social democracy did not raise its demands so urgently, consistently and hard in relation to the increase in the salaries of teachers. We, together with our colleagues from the opposition parties this morning at the press conference, said that we were all prepared to vote in favour of this amendment of yours, for those 3 million crowns, together it is some number of over 80 votes, and all we have to say is that Members for Social Democracy - and it is a message to all teachers - raise their hand, and in that case the 3 billion will definitely go to increase the salaries of teachers. It's a little weird, of course. Now that the Prime Minister has not fulfilled the promises he has made to the 15 percent salary increase, Minister Plaga has not fulfilled the Prime Minister's promises, there is a way to do so. We have chosen the path of opposition, which may not have a great chance of success, but, Madame, it is up to you and the Members of Social Democracy to do so. I don't blame Secretary Schillerová for that either, she's just defending the state budget. But it's up to you whether teachers' salaries really go up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. With another factual remark, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u62	For many years, I have been vain and maybe naively trying not to turn our children's education into politics, but something that we should all agree on. As far as the government is concerned, social democracy has taken care of the negotiation of its departments' budgets, as well as colleagues from the ANO movement. The government - and no one can question this - has somehow compromised the minimum commitment in terms of its term of office. Baxa colleague, Mr President, certainly knows that a number of circumstances have occurred only after the approval of the state budget. And my colleague, Mr Baxa, knows this very well by your means, Mr President, because we have been sitting very well and seriously, as otherwise, at least four times in the Education Committee and in the development of the budget since June and so far, and we have devoted our negotiations to it. That is why you know, without a doubt, by your means, Mr President, that a number of circumstances have only been communicated subsequently or in detail, or have evolved. I am trying absolutely professionally to respond with an amendment which, from my point of view and sincere conviction, does not in any way undermine the coalition's work on the budget, react to the current situation so that it does not turn out, as I mentioned, that we will give the teachers a cake and they will be angry that we have not given them frosting or parents and grandparents will be angry that we have not achieved the faster goals that we have taken. So my position as a Member, which, by the way, pushed for three years in a row the resolution on which we unanimously agreed as Members across the political spectrum, and so we should approach education and our children, so I do what I have, according to my pure consciousness and conscience. Please, let us not make this a matter of politics and rather think about what we will do until the last vote, whether we are a coalition or opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u63	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u64	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond to my honored colleague Kateřina Valachová from ČSSD. From the point of view of how you want to help teachers, I agree with the speech you have said here, my colleague, through Mr President. I myself have a wife who is a teacher, teaching in elementary school, and I know that the situation is not adequate in terms of evaluating those people in terms of the efforts they make and the importance of the profession. But with all due respect, you're also an experienced political matador, former secretary. What you're saying here just belongs in your position as an education expert for the CSSD, it just belongs to the Coalition Council. There you have these things discussed and come here simply to the coalition with the final result of the compromise. I find it kind of smiling, like trying to bring this up right now, the subject, and saying, everybody here appeal to the Chamber of Deputies - support it. But because it is such a priority for you and for social democracy, so why can't you put your foot down and say no, the budget will not pass unless the social democracy demand or at least part of the Members are met to increase the budget for teachers' salaries. I don't understand. I don't understand politically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u65	Thank you. Mr Martin Baxa, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Černochová and Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u66	I had no intention of starting a verbal firefight with my colleague here on this subject, but I have to say one thing, my colleague through Mr President. Of course teachers' salaries are politicians. We are talking about the fact that the entire Chamber of Deputies and political parties should agree on how our country's education system should develop, professionally agree on what reforms should be implemented, but an integral part of these reforms is the increase in funding for Czech education, in which we do not put as much as the OECD average, and we are still a relatively significant amount below. And if that is not the case, then we, as representatives of opposition parties, or I, as an ODS expert for education, simply beat the alarm here and say that if we are to change Czech education, we need money for that. Minister Plaga and the Prime Minister have not fulfilled their promises regarding teacher salaries, 15 percent of the increase has occurred once, not really, in the next few years, so we're just asking logically here, we're pointing out, we're calling for it to change. And if you're talking about it being political and that reality has changed, then I'm just going to recapitulate what I've already said here. Just coalition MPs - who, by the way, have no ministries in government - stomped on themselves from the Communist party, took clear concessions on Minister Schillerová and the Prime Minister without having the relevant ministries, so I find it really hypocritical of you when you say here that we should support wage increases when simply social democracy had the same instrument as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as the same coalition partner. Such a report on teacher's salary and support for our amendment is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u67	Thank you. Mrs Černochová and her factual point. Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It reminded me a little of my colleague Valachová's opening appearance of the Prime Minister, when in fact we were almost all in a situation here, that perhaps there were some circumstances you see, that we are new here, that we have landed here. Mrs Valachová through the Vice-President, for social democrats have been participating in the government for six years, even participating through you for several years directly at the Ministry of Education. So how is it that you're actually saying here at this point that the public thinks how many times that 15 percent of the teachers have already been added when they haven't even been given that money once? Who is this fault, Mrs Valachová, through the Vice-President? I mean, you've been in charge here for six years. As one of my previous speakers rightly said here, you must communicate within your coalition. We, clearly as citizens' democrats, have said that higher funds in favour of educators are also our priority and that we will support this. That you don't agree with this within the coalition is not a problem for us here on the right side of the political spectrum. We've made a clear promise to support this place. So you're crying a little bit, but on the wrong grave, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u69	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u70	I certainly didn't cry, I did the right thing. And since I am on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and it is the Chamber of Deputies, which expresses support, trust to the government, approves its programming declarations and approves the budget every year, and because it concerns accompanying budget resolutions, I have just recapitated the situation that we are in. I also insist that in terms of minimum objectives, after all, the government has something in the programming statement, it has fallen here, no one is questioning it, the government meets the minimum targets in terms of the average salary of the teacher in terms of the current budget 2020 and the outlook 2021. [[unintelligible]] As for what we did or did not do, because we have long borne government responsibility for both the YES movement or social democracy, that is true, so I just want to say that it does not make sense for us to change a long-term situation that has nothing to do with the governments of the YES movement or social democracy - and I will not go back to the past when it came to it. I really want all of us in opposition and coalition to agree to change that and change that. It stems from the fact that although we, as the sněmovna, will say some amount of money and say it to schools, the government will say it, no matter what it is, right or left, a number of circumstances lead to the fact that the money is not on the teacher's or teacher's salary. And what did we do as the government of the ČSSD and the YES movement, whether we were, say, in the first or second order? Well, we have pushed through, and I think, with the support of most of the political parties sitting here, reform the financing of regional education. We also kept her last year when she was questioned for some reason. We've loosened it, we've taken steps, after all, we've heard it from our colleagues. I only appeal to speed up, that's all. And I was just reminding you that in December we made a promise to each other, coalitions and oppositions, we just have a lot of points to settle. [[Time, please!]] By your means, Mr President, the Minister of Finance has not robbed the bank, so we simply proceed as we please. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u71	The time to make a point of fact is up, thank you. Three further factual points, Mr Bartoň, Mr Votava and Mr Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u72	Thank you. I would like to say that what has been said here is true. All amendments to teacher salaries are in line with the Government's programming declaration. The government's programming statement says that in 2021 it should be 1.5 times the salaries of 2017. That means at least. It could be 1.5, 1.53, 1,57, 1,6 etc. It'll all meet the government's programming statement. And only to the Secretary of Finance. If you meet the minimum requirements, absolutely the most basic minimum requirements, then in school we give a four for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u73	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I did not want to be involved in any discussion today, I think everything about our amendment and the reasons for this. I think that Mrs Valachová did not cry here at all, on the contrary, explaining the reasons that led us both to the amendment. I've noticed that the ODS and other parties have the will to support it, so I don't know why they're sage about it right now, which seems kind of weird to me. So if you want to support the amendment, then support it. And I think the debate around here is completely useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u75	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u76	I don't want to delay, I want to respond to it, but here the debate goes beyond logic and normality. So here politicians squeal year after year, how much they've added to teachers, and you, through the President, Mrs Valachová, will admit here that they've never actually gotten it and that it's the circumstances. Those circumstances are called the break-up of the school system under which you are signed in the first place, and what you have introduced for the reform of funding, it will make 20 times worse. I think the Treasury Secretary has a pretty good idea. There'll be another 40 billion. And those teachers aren't gonna get it again, but you guys are gonna have a funny fight about who's gonna give those teachers a raise, and they don't have it in real life in that wallet. So let's end this awkward debate, move on so we can vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u77	Thank you. Mr Martin Baxa and Mr Marian Jurečka are registered with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u78	Just a short line for Mr Votava. Mr Vice-President, we are not wise to support or not support the amendment. We, together with the representatives of the other opposition parties, said in the morning that we would support your amendment. We're wise to see why you're presenting him when you're part of a government coalition. If you're part of a government coalition, you should've stomped, said 3 billion. salaries for teachers, done, and it should have been approved by the state budget preparation or at least in the budget committee. So we are logically wise about this and we are asking why you choose such a path, which shows that you are not actually serious about pushing this amendment through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marian Jurečka. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u80	Thank you. I'd like to ask about two things. If one of the representatives of the government or the coalition here could try to say that, because you certainly counted it, even based on estimates, predictions of how much the teachers will really improve in 2021 compared to the average wage, which will probably be predicted in terms of the increase that can be expected. Because saying the 2017 argument here, when we know that wages have been rising significantly since 2017 and in all other professions, it would be fair to say how much these teachers will actually have, how they will grow up compared to the average we're trying to grow up. That would be fair to say. And then, I find it really smiling that argument to seek the support for the amendment when your President Jan Hamáček made it clear to the media that this proposal will simply not support it, that it is a coalition agreement and that social democracy does not support it through the mouth of its President. So please get this straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u81	Thank you. With Mrs Schillerová's priority right. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have to respond to this gunfight, and unfortunately, I'm here to wash my coalition underwear. Which I don't like to do because I always prefer to go behind closed doors. It's like you said, Mr. Jurečka. It was at the Coalition Council. It was at the Coalition Council last week, when we clearly agreed within the coalition board, which we will support the amendments according to the three criteria that I have given. And just the coalition partner assured us that this would be the vote. So we will not support this proposal by Mrs Valachová and Mr Votava. That's how we were assured, and I trust a coalition partner. In the end, it's our common budget. You're asking about the numbers, the graph. Maybe the Prime Minister was here this morning, and I was in the Senate defending the tax package. They're clear. Take a look. [[It's showing a graph.]] Here's the years. It starts with 2008 and the blue, when it started to rise, it's 2015. Now look how it's increasing here. And you got it -- come look closer, if you can't see, I'm sorry. Or I'll follow you, I'll follow you to... [[Mr. Jurečka is coming to the speaker's desk.]] Thank you. You're very kind. I'd like to come. That last one's 2021, and that's exactly what the government's saying, we're holding what we promised. We have 150 percent of the average 2017, which is based on the Ministry of Finance's calculations - it's based on 45 342. And the money was just given to those teachers who left the state budget. They left the county. It was 15 per cent for 2019, 10 per cent for 2020, 9 per cent for 2021, so that we could meet the commitment. And that's how it is, and that's how we hold it. And we're just responsible for the budget. That means, I understand that the opposition wants to raise everyone, I understand that, but we have a responsibility for the budget. I suppose I will be called on - so far I am sitting here and listening patiently - to call on a balanced state budget, but all these proposals will be proposed. So that's why. We negotiated the budget. I started negotiating the budget of 2020 in January 2019. Months, weeks, just acting, it wasn't easy. And we negotiated it, and I stand by it that the budget is good, and I will say that in my final speech, where I will sum up all the priorities and possibly another discussion. So we have a commitment, the Coalition Council has discussed it, unfortunately it is a matter of social democracy. I'm not gonna shoot a coalition partner, it's not my style, I'm doing it behind closed doors. I'm not doing it in the media, I hope you've noticed. And there we received a clear guarantee from the President that he would be voted in this way. And that's how we're gonna vote. Because we're the first government to just hold it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u83	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u84	Madam Secretary, thank you for responding to this graph. But I asked you a little different. It would be fair here to try to show a prediction of how the average wage growth can be expected. Let us compare how much in 2021 teachers will have increased salaries in all these godly intentions, how much more than the expected average wage, so that we can tell ourselves how we have actually been able to raise those teachers from the point of view of their appreciation, really, really. Because to say this graph here, which is growing somewhere to 45,000, and if we look at the increase in average wages in the Czech Republic, when we are now at about 34,000 crowns, so if we grow at this rate, we can expect that the average wage will be able to go somewhere near 40,000 in 2021. And then let's say how much the teachers are up by and if that's how much we really want to appreciate them against the remaining jobs on the labour market. And I'm glad - I can see that the Minister of Education is also about to express himself. I would also like to comment on the proposal put forward here by his coalition partners from social democracy, because the word of the Minister of Education, I think, is really important in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u85	Thank you. Mr Lukáš Bartoň will speak with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u86	Thank you. I'd just ask the secretary to show us charts next time that aren't cut. Your graph starts at 20,000 instead of zero, which makes it look like wages rise twice as high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u87	With priority rights, Minister Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to respond. Here it wasn't fair to compare something, or a specific variable, with the value of 2017. Please look into the past. For the first time, it was mentioned that teachers should take 130 percent of the average wage, sometime in 2003. Everyone signed up for this, and no one got to it just because, like the addition of money, the average wage is developing. Indeed, this government is the first to commit itself to increasing the average salary of both the teacher and the non-teaching by 50 per cent over four years. This is the first time that is clearly measurable. Take a look at the statistical value of 2017 and then the statistical value of 2021. But you're right in that if we're in a situation of dynamic economic growth, which we are, I'm saying that we have to - and if everyone here, and I believe that we really mean that we have to be an innovative economy - to add in the next period. Yes, it is fair to see how this is developing towards the session and the average wage in the economy, because it would be ideal if the 130 percent value were targeted. Or an even better option to measure it is what it is measured for within the OECD, which is the average salary of a college student. We're falling behind extremely much there. But I think that this particular example of ours shows that if you put specific values, of course, it can be budgeted well. And 50 percent in four years is very ambitious. If it's only enough for the pirát for four, it's probably a pretty good school we have. Because no one has ever added 50 percent in four years and in times of economic growth. I do not know the specific value, but it is fair to discuss specific figures for 2019 in the spring of 2020 as well as in the House of Commons how government statements are being fulfilled, how average wages have moved, and how we will also talk about how we will add pedagogical and non-teaching workers in the next period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u89	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u90	It's a math window. Here's the comparison when the average is growing, how it's supposed to catch up. Here, some colleagues remind me of a gentleman I saw in an online discussion that suggested that the minimum wage be slightly higher than the average, and that seemed to save it. So it doesn't really work like that. And the other thing. As a mathematician, I'll comment on the graphs. The graph is to represent some phenomenon and it is to represent it significantly. So there's no rule that a graph isn't supposed to be, or it's supposed to be cut. In hospitals, for example, it used to be that the temperature that the patient had showed up, and it also starts somewhere at 35 degrees, it doesn't start at zero degrees Kelvin, because otherwise it would be like a strange line, and those doctors and nurses wouldn't see any of it. So I would take the liberty of defending myself - when someone wants to show an increase, so that the graph is slightly cut, it's a perfectly normal thing, and it's done by a lot of people who show any graph.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u91	Thank you. And we're going back to the debate. Mr Tomáš Vymazal, Mr Petr Třešňák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u92	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak here in support of the B36 amendment, which concerns adictological services. The draft State budget for 2020 lacks 35 million adictological services. Specifically, there will be a lack of resources for substitution treatment, exchange programmes and workers' wages. This means that we will not have enough physical syringes that we want to replace with psychotropic users, nor will there be enough active substances that we can give them as part of the substitution treatment, nor will there be enough workers to do this work. Prime Minister, neither you nor I have decided that heroin or meth will be illegal and that no one can use them, but we cannot today pretend that there are no people who use these substances as well. The savings you're about to make will only cause one thing. There'll just be more infectious diseases among psychotropic users, especially among the intravenous ones, and there'll be fewer people who can take care of them. I know you're dealing with budgetary measures in the government that should put 26 miles into adictological services. Crowns. I'll admit I don't think it's system, and I don't even know how you got that number. Even the national drug coordinator Vedralová herself wishes to stabilise the financing of adictological services, so I believe that I can ask you to support Amendment B36 so that we can stabilise the financing of adictological services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u93	Thank you. Member Petr Třešňák, Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u94	Have a nice evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will actually make a very brief statement on two areas of amendments. The first one is just mentioned adictology. And here I would also like to ask you to support the amendment that we tabled together with Mr Richterová, Mr Vymazal and Mr Bartošek. And here again, I will stress what my colleague has said. The next year will be missing from the operation of adictological services in the Czech Republic 35 miles. The koruna, and it can actually endanger the majority population. Because, as the state budget is designed, it will be missing not only for services but especially for medical supplies such as sterile syringes or containers for safe disposal of syringes used next year. As a result, the quality of health protection of the population of the Czech Republic would also suffer from infectious diseases such as jaundice and HIV. On the contrary, the aim of the amendment in the procedure marked by B36 is to return funds to a sufficient level so that the necessary care can be provided under the Systemic Support Programme for the Development of Adictological Services within the Integrated Drug Policy, and therefore risks to all residents of the Czech Republic have not increased. I therefore ask you once again to support this proposal. The other area is culture. Here I would like to express my support for the amendments marked by B88 and B54 and, at the same time, I thank Mrs Kovářová and Mr Bax for submitting them. The culture is unfortunately undervalued in the state budget for a long time, and I would like to note that the pillar of culture is then live culture, theatre ensembles and above all symphony orchestras. While Czech culture is also part of the economy, it is its export commodity, but above all it should also be an integral part of social life in regions. In many regions, however, its existence is threatened by the state budget. Unfortunately, members of orchestras are often paid with a minimum wage and its growth will then fall on the files themselves, or directly the budgets of the municipalities, without being given a helping hand from the state to finance them. And it is the culture in the regions that is absolutely essential for the overall level of the nation that the state should definitely support orchestras, theatres and other living cultures to the maximum extent possible. I therefore thank all of you who will support these amendments as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u95	Thank you. Next will be Mr Jan Zahradník, Mrs Šafránková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u96	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to ask you to support my amendments, which are listed under B114, B115. The first is about moving 10 miles. from NGOs to adaptation measures in the fight against climate change, namely to strengthen the fight against drought. The second is about moving 10 miles. a contribution to international organisations in the management of municipalities in the territory of national parks. With a little pessimism, I think it's probably going to work out as usual, so please just consider my intercession. But what I'm dealing with is the budget item of the Ministry of the Environment 34212 damage to the burden of farming. Unfortunately, this item does not concern any amendment, nor does mine. And it says here that the entitlement to payment of the compensation was laid down in Law No. 114/1990 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, in the current version. It is designed there for this year 120 mil., the National Park Administration of Šumava can then pay up to 20 mil. Crowns. However, the law on conservation of nature and landscape was the previous coalition in which you members of the ANO movement played an important role by changing the basic protection conditions in national parks, and in Section 16 para. 2 was then prohibited from using artificial fertilisers, kejdu, silage juices, lime land in the territory of the national parks outside the built-up areas of the municipalities and the patronage areas outside the gardens. Well, why do you think I'm telling you this, what does that even mean? It means a lot. This means that there is currently a proposal in the Government from the beginning of November for an amendment to the Government regulation 75, 76/2015, subsidies for organic farming and subsidies for AGROENVI, which should be approved in the coming weeks. However, in the light of the comments submitted by the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the arrangements for reducing the rates of subsidies in national parks were amended in these amendments, so far that the reduced rate was only in the natural zone, i.e. in the most protected zone of the national park, as permitted by the original form of the law, so the first zones were now extended to all, both natural and natural zones close to nature and to the increased care zone. Therefore, it must not be fertilized on either of these zones, which is the reason for the SZIF to request the removal of these parcels from subsidized titles and thus the reduction of subsidies for farmers operating on the territory of national parks. [[18.30 hours]] What's that in summary? In 2020, those farmers will receive an additional EUR 76 per hectare less in the framework of the environmental-agricultural measure and in the framework of the treatment of permanent grassland. So it's going to add up in that park, and there's nothing other than these two, and it's going to add up EUR 108 per hectare, or CZK 2,750 per hectare. Given that in the LUPPIS, i.e. in the survey of land for subsidies, this scheme applies to the territory of the national park about 5,000. Ha, it's 14 miles. Crowns. So the people who run the national parks, who are struggling every day not only with nature and the conditions, usually mountain, but also with the huge bureaucracy that is being imposed on them by changes in laws, with the bullying of nature protection authorities, will also result in such sanctions, such a reduction in their subsidies. They consider it a big setback, many of them have family traditions there, traditions built since, for example, 1945, when they started farming there, they have a very close relationship with the economy itself, and now they consider this measure almost winding up. I understand it's not in my power to change things here right now. We are talking about supporting the proposals. I would certainly have made the proposal, but this circumstance became known last Friday, November 29th, so it was not possible to submit any proposal for any change to the contribution regime. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, Minister Babiš or the Minister of Agriculture to give some advice on how to improve this bad situation, and those people who have begun to manage knowing that, like other farmers, they will cover part of their income with subsidies, unfortunately that is the case throughout Europe, so they should have it, so that the reduction should be covered by some other title within the already approved budget. I don't think it should be that big a deal again. It's basically a few million, which is in the volume of the budget again the hundredth of the mile. So I repeat my request to you, Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, ministers, please try to stand up for these people and try to solve their problem anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u97	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Šafránková. Mr. Jan Čižinský will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Beautiful evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already presented my two amendments to the draft law on the State Budget in detail at second reading, and allow me to introduce them briefly and to say their substance and also to ask for their support. It is a proposal to move funds from chapters and items, which are inefficient and unwarrantedly overvalued and do not give almost any effect to the state, are not primarily of public interest, but rather serves as a source of income for non-state and private entities. In the first case, it's about moving 1 billion. CZK from the entry of active employment policy in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely 500 million. CZK, up to payment appropriations for salaries and other payments for the work done and CZK 500 million. CZK under pension insurance benefit. At a time when the labour market is greatly dominated by the offer of job vacancies over the supply of free labour, I consider it much more appropriate to strengthen the wages of the workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Labour Office and the Czech Social Security Administration, who have been forgetting for years and who defend public interest in an extremely difficult environment and under strong pressure from different parties, as well as the means of pensions of all types where it is our duty to improve the poor living situation of our citizens who can no longer help themselves and have already done their own for society. Secondly, I suggest we move 800 miles in between. CZK from the grant to renewable energy sources, the actual public finance tunnel, in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, to non-investment non-deliverant transfers in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the field of social services provided within the regions and municipalities to the area which is tasked at regional and local level to provide care for our seniors, children or disabled people, to an area which is shamefully and catastrophically underfunded, fights the deficit every year, and also lacks money for decent wages for employees, social workers who do hard, well-served and unappreciated work. I ask you once again to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u99	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Jan Čižinský. I will read the apologies: Mr Jurečka apologizes from 20 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons and Mr Pavel Žáček from attending today's meeting from 18 o'clock to the end of the time period, due to a foreign trip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u100	Thank you for the floor. Good day, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment on three points. One point is the transfer of funds from the unnecessary controls at Prague Castle, which only bother everyone and have no effect, only that the Pražan Castle cannot pass through Prague Castle and cannot show their children the symbol of our statehood or show the cathedral, because everyone and their children will change their minds to wait a queue for frames that are unnecessary, 40 minutes, or even without waiting, but you never know that, and therefore you simply stopped Pražen with the children through Prague Castle. So transfer these funds to the Security Information Service. That is the essence of my first amendment. The essence of the second is the movement in the environmental chapter. It is a shift from research to implementation so that measures against drought will actually be implemented next year. I would also like to support Mr Kaňkovský's amendment. This is about Vysoké nad Jizerou. I would like to appreciate the discussion with the Minister, where the Minister has promised to resolve the situation. I will, of course, leave it to him if he takes the floor and evaluates it in some way, but I would like to support what Mr Kaňkovský said here about Vysoké nad Jizerou, the top workplace where people from all over the country come together because of problems with their hands, so that High above Jizerou stops having the big problem that he now has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u101	Thank you. Mr. Juránek. Mr Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u102	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would really just like the attention of those who are the decisive ones right now. For one simple reason - I understand very well that the budget itself is preparing coalitions and the coalition has to somehow balance its own demands and its own routing, so logically there will always be something missing, what is for another political party, for example for KDU-ČSL, which is in opposition. However, I now want to focus only on three things that are all related to the regions, and it is not going to apply regardless of who tabled the amendment and whether the amendment will be applied. I have a big favor to ask. The regions have three such areas that they deal with and which are clearly the most important. It's education, it's social affairs and it's transport. The only thing I'm going to take from this is, in order of importance, that I'm very aware of the way in which the lack of funds in the social field interferes with these regions. And I am merely giving this initiative, and I am not giving it any concrete approval of any amendment, there are a number of them here, but to apply as many amendments as possible concerning the social area. And I'll try to explain why. [[18.40 hours]] The social area is very relaxed within the regions because it affects three areas. One area is the area of facilities that are established by the region, the other non-profit organizations and the third actually domestic care. And I just have the idea that I should recommend that the amount that is actually approved in favour of the regions, in favour of the social institutions, especially the nonprofits, should be as high as possible. I am giving the initiative regardless of whether the amendment will be adopted. I give it with the fact that there are other means over the course of the year to increase the budget in the social field. I just point out that there will be great concerns about this, which could now be saved if the total amount of CZK 1.5 billion in social care was approved. That's the first area. Second area. Logically, all the captains and captains must fight to make transport infrastructure grow there, and they will clearly push to the amount of approximately CZK 4 billion that this fund needs to be increased. Even this is an opportunity at this point to solve the problem, instead of discussing it for months, and then to settle the matter. The last thing is education, but I don't want to talk about pay first here, but I want to talk about regional education reform, the real reform that's been going on for 19 years. And there, I just ask that there be some amount of money to be raised, so that regional education reform can take place. I'm saying, I'm breeding around the edges here. And I'm stressing one thing. The budget is largely decided at the moment. The Coalition is already convinced of this, which will support the amendments and which will not. And I will merely recapitulate if, however, there is some thought that the amendments that are here could be used, so they relate to the social area in the first place, and in the second place they concern the area which concerns transport, from the point of view of the regions, and in the third place that affects education. A number of these increases may be resolved during the year only by moving directly in chapters of the relevant Ministry. Some are already at the level that they would have to be approved by the Committee on Budgets. I think this is a journey, too, and I'll be happy to work together on this trip next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u103	Thank you. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. First of all, maybe I'll pick up on the Prime Minister from the morning, where I'm impressed by his words, which he said here is pumping money into the economy. But in order to pump money, you have to pump it out of taxpayers first. And that's what you're doing very massively. And you're even sucking out the state's long-term reserves. Prime Minister Babiš also said that he was fulfilling the government's programming statement. And I'm going to allow you to quote one sentence from the government's programming statement, or virtually. more sentences. "We promote a stable and predictable tax environment. We aim to ensure equal and fair conditions for work and business and we will not increase the tax burden." And while the Prime Minister here has had his very long speech without the limp and warehouse, the Minister has also advocated an increase in taxes in the Senate, which you want to increase since 1 January. This says the most about the state budget and the state finances, and it tells the difference between the words we have heard here and the actions that this government is doing. Because this really is not a predictable tax environment. This is not a responsible approach to state finances. And that's not even the growth policy the Prime Minister was talking about. You want to approve today's budget, whose revenue is based on unapproved legislation. That's not just the tax package. It is also a digital tax, but it is also a longer retention of money from VAT refund traders, which you propose in an unnegotiated and unapproved tax order. All of this defines the tragic state of state finances, where you try to stick holes in the budget, those holes you've made yourself. Despite economic growth, you continue to indebt taxpayers with a deficit budget. And without these aids and raising the taxes you call for help, the difference between spending and income would be even higher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u105	I don't think it's entirely that the noise level is that high. But I understand you want attention. So I'm gonna ask all my colleagues to keep their voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u106	And the question is whether the assumption of state budget revenue based on growth prediction, on economic growth of 2,2 percent, is correct. The National Budget Board, in your opinion, envisages a slowdown in growth to 2%. That difference of two tenths of a percent can cause an increase in the proposed state budget deficit. And that's what the secretary calls a good budget. And while we have economic growth, when reserves should be made, and not spend them, you still involve extraordinary revenue in the budget for gluing current spending. I said that the other day, I'm gonna say it again, that the government is dancing on the Titanic of State Finance, but it's infallibly steering on the iceberg. It is precisely so that reserves do not dissolve, virtually. The outstanding income of CZK 600 million from the sale of strategic metal reserves has not been eaten, I would like to ask you to support the amendment, which increases the expenditure framework of the chapter of the State Material Reserve for Reconstruction and, for example, modernisation of reserves, at the expense of the current expenditure of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in part of the investment incentives and parts of the funds allocated to subsidies for business. At the same time, I would like to ask you to support the amendment, which I want to help 500 million crowns of volunteer firefighters to rebuild their equipment, at the expense of excessive subsidies to support solariums. Of course, this proposal and the renewal of their equipment would lead to an increase in the safety of citizens in smaller municipalities. Moreover, voluntary firefighters' congregations in rural homes do not only act as a security element, but also as a social element, because they are often among the last active associations in small municipalities. That is why these citizens and these volunteer firefighters who sacrifice their free time for the benefit of their communities deserve support in their activities. And given the time, I will not comment on any further amendments. But I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u107	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will speak in the debate and Mr Jaroslav Holík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u108	Thank you very much. I will also try to be brief, because we have enjoyed the debate about how bad the state budget is in previous readings. Nevertheless, I must repeat the main arguments. After all, this is one of the most important laws of the year. It is, on the one hand, the main economic instrument that the government has at its disposal to implement the economic policy of the government. So, based on what this budget looks like, we can also evaluate the priorities of the government and how it approaches the economy in the Czech Republic. And it is, of course, a high-ranking policy that gives the report, virtually. the adoption process, who votes in favour of the budget, who succeeds in the framework of the amendments, so gives a report on the political situation in this country. First, I will focus on the economic context, on the budget as an economic instrument. For us, of course, the biggest problem in the draft budget for 2020 is the fact that this budget also increases redistribution in the Czech economy, that the public sector will grow because of this budget, redistribution will grow, bureaucracy and administration in this country will grow. Let me just remind you that both income and expenditure in the draft budget are increasing by CZK 113 billion, which the current government coalition will have at its disposal. If we look at the comparison and go back to those crisis years, even the government will have CZK 300 billion more to redistribute. So here you can see how the state is taking on more and more fat, as it becomes a hanky. [[18.50 hours]] Of course, because of the increase in the size of public redistribution, the tax burden is also increasing, which is confirmed by the Ministry of Finance's materials, which are part of the draft state budget for 2020. According to the Ministry of Finance, the combined tax quota, which measures the tax burden in the economy, will be at the highest level historically in the next year, at the rate of 36 per cent, namely 35.9 per cent of gross domestic product, which is indeed the highest combined tax quota in history. It's a record. It is a confirmation of the fact that this government has chosen a taxpayer as a target from which it wants to choose as much as possible from previous governments as possible. Although tax revenues are rising at a huge rate, and I mentioned these figures, the government is proposing a budget deficit of 40 billion again. Crowns. It must be repeated over and over that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš lied to us as Minister of Finance when he promised a balanced budget for 2017. We have here the draft budget for 2020 and we do not have a balanced draft state budget in 2020, or with a smaller proposed budget deficit than in previous years. Thus, Andrej Babiš, who, in my opinion, spoke here this morning, gave an absolutely incredible speech that did not give head or heel, so it should be reminded that many years ago, as Minister of Finance promised a balanced budget to the citizens of the Czech Republic, and for 2020 he prepared a deficit budget again. He was unable to prepare a balanced budget, along with Minister Schillerová, even though she rules in years when the economy is relatively successful. We have an above-average rate of economic growth, and we have record low unemployment, so the pressure on social spending on unemployment benefits is, of course, the least in the last many years. And yet the government of the YES movement, the Social Democrats supported by the communists, was unable to prepare a budget that would not bring deficit and further debt to the state. Here's one more important thing - it's not just a planned deficit. When we look at the implementation of this November's budget, we find that at the end of November it is the implementation of the state budget or the result of the state's management minus CZK 38 billion. We are very close to the approved deficit for this year, but this figure is not entirely telling, because we have to include in it what the Minister of Finance has done, namely that it has drained the privatisation fund, which remains behind the National Property Fund, and has helped itself with an extra 18 billion crowns in the financial year. If we add to the deficit that... [[He's turning to the news desk.]] May I ask your colleagues next door if they could quiet down? If we add 18 billion to the 38 billion that have the deficit officially at the end of November, we are in the number of over 50 billion crowns that would correspond to the real deficit. The way the government is unable to manage its income. And I'm afraid that can happen next year, of course. That the proposed deficit can only be considered by Andrej Babiš as a number, and he often says that it doesn't matter what deficit the state budget approves, but that the reality is important. I don't think so, I don't stand for this thesis. I think that the state budget is the most important law of the year and, as such, it is intended to bring realistic figures to the Chamber of Deputies and Members that correspond to reality. It's not supposed to be a virtual reality that Andrej Babiš has been in lately. And the number he comes up with in front of the MPs is supposed to be the one he stands for. But since he doesn't consider it that way, and since we can look at the practice of the current government, which is not enough even the deficit that he approved, but still needs to drain reserves, the reserve money that should serve the state for a period when the economy is doing worse, we can count on the number of CZK 40 billion that this government proposes as a deficit may not be the final number at all, and that the deficit could actually be much larger, because this government can proceed to the further vacuuming of the reserves that it has at its disposal and that the previous governments have saved it. Of course, this budget is not just about the deficit itself. Just as important, we are equally critical of the structure of the budget. Andrej Babiš likes to use the word investment. When you look at the total amount of investment and compare it again with those crisis years that Andrej Babiš refers to in relation to the then right-wing government, you will find that, relative to the total cost of the state budget, those hated right-wing governments, on whom Andrei Babiš is so happy to rely, have been able to invest more than Andrej Babiš can against the total cost of the state budget, even though the economy is growing. So on the one hand, we have a crisis, a fall in the economy, a right-wing government, and an investment that was more than 10 per cent in the budget compared to total spending, and then we have the government of Andrej Babiš, which rules in a time of decent economic growth and minimal unemployment, which loves to talk about investment, but they are relatively lower, which amounts to less than 10 per cent in total expenditure. So it's a very big fairy tale. Andrej Babiš can endlessly talk about an investment plan, he can write it any way he wants, he can have a long one, he can show it, he can go on TV with him, but the reality of the state budget is different. Relatively, Andrej Babiš will invest less than the right-wing governments have invested in times of crisis and, of course, less moves the Czech Republic forward. In that budget, there is another problem in that structure, of course, a relatively rapid rate of growth in mandatorial expenditure. Here it is fair to add that part of the opposition was involved in this, when it approved the increase in pensions, which Andrej Babiš again likes to boast that he arranged for him. They're talking about the total amount, even though its dominant part was given by legal valorisation. But, of course, the entire Chamber of Deputies approved the contribution over the legal valorisation, and the entire Chamber of Deputies has a share of the responsibility for the increase in mandatorial expenditure in its own way. Which I would not blame this government if it were also preparing public finances not only for next year or for the nearest future, but also for a period of 5, 10, 20 years, when it is quite obvious that, because of what the demographic trend looks like, the mandatorial spending will increase. Even if we never increase beyond the valorisation of pensions, they will, of course, spontaneously grow at a relatively high rate. And if the government does not implement pension reform and reform of the health system, then other government representation, but especially citizens of the Czech Republic, will get into huge difficulties. So I don't blame the government for raising seniors' pensions, but I blame the government for not doing anything about pension reform. Of course, none of us can take this Maláčová seriously, that we may have to see them through to the end of this parliamentary term of some meaningful scenario of pension reform, which would have a chance to go through this Chamber of Deputies. It is only the creation of an impression in front of citizens of the Czech Republic that something is being done with the pension system, but the reality is that there will be maximum cosmetic changes and the pension system will continue to be directed towards greater and greater unsustainable. And of course, the more we add to the pensionists without addressing the systemic problems of the pension system, the sooner the system threatens to collapse, and while the current seniors deserve and enjoy the few hundred extra crowns, future generations may not have to have a pension as high as the current seniors do. [[19.00 hours]] And I add that the ratio of pensions to the average wage in this government is falling and smaller than it was again under those hated right-wing governments. When one looks at the numbers, it will ensure that the hated right-wing government has been in many ways far more successful and better than the government of Andrej Babiš. When I go back to that incredible slap that didn't have the head and heel that the Prime Minister did this morning, I was impressed by two statements that I would like to return to. The Prime Minister said that in the event of a crisis, he would start pumping money into the economy. I would like to ask Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister, or the Minister through Mr President, where the money will be taken at the time of the crisis for the pumping process, because when the economy slows down, the revenue from their tax collection will fall out, and we can see that the expectations about tax revenues are not met, as the economy is slowing down, so the collection is not as good as the government planned, but when the crisis comes - I do not call for it, I do not create any negative expectations - so I want to ask the Prime Minister where he will take money to pump money into that economy in the crisis when he is already pumping into that economy during the period of economic success and when it is low unemployment. In the moment of the crisis, when the unemployment will rise and the tax revenue will be missing, where the Prime Minister will take the money to pump it. He kind of didn't explain that. One possible explanation is that Minister Schillerová, who is a record player in tax increases, will take even more and propose further tax increases so that we take more money from the taxpayers' wallet, because this government thinks that it can simply spend people's money better than they can, and it will take even more money from the economy. I merely add that, at the moment of the economic crisis, any increase in taxes will deepen the crisis and it will stimulate further and further public spending, both on social benefits, on unemployment benefits, which, of course, are increasing items in times of crisis, but first of all will be dealing with the declining collection. And those reserves that Secretary Schillerová is sucking out at a time of economic growth and low unemployment, they will be empty, so I don't know what the Prime Minister will be pumping money into that economy. If he's pumping anything out of Agrofert, I don't know, he might be missing more money than it looks today. So I'd really like to know where the government wants to take money to pump that money into the economy in a time of crisis when it spends money in an absolutely incredible way today, when it's not such an economically bad time at all. And the second sentence or the second thesis, which the Prime Minister has performed in this mess of meaningless sentences and words this morning, is a constant return to the governments of the right, to the governments of the ODS, which, of course, is awkward, no one believes in the Prime Minister anymore, it's a... a hundred-time lie that just doesn't happen to be true, even if the Prime Minister stands up to his head. And the Prime Minister blamed the government of the ODS or the right-wing government, it was not only the government of the ODS in the right-wing government that, on the one hand, carried out deficits at a time of crisis, which blamed the economic crisis that came after the financial crisis that we did not cause ourselves, but it was created in the United States, it was rather strange, but he blamed the right-wing government for the deficits, but at the same time he blamed it for cutting down the economy, causing its longer recession. It's used by the Prime Minister. It's used by many of his coalition partners. But the Prime Minister will have to choose that. So either she blames the government, the right-wing government, for strangling the economy, but then she can't blame her for deficits, or she won't blame her for deficits, but she can't do it at the same time with the economic strangulation thesis. He just has to pick one and reject one. She can't blame the government for strangling the economy, and at the same time for making deficits. Of course, if the economy were to choke less, the logic of the matter would make the deficits even bigger. But as I say, there was so little logic and so little truth and so much lies in the Prime Minister's speech that these were just two that I was interested in. Of course, I have read several of my amendments as part of the second reading. I, unlike many other colleagues, try to speak rhetorically here about the fact that I consider the budget to be wasteful, that it eats and tunnels the future of the Czech Republic because it cannot reduce the government in a time when the economy is going well, so I propose amendments to the budget, which all aim to strengthen the chapter of State Debt, the service of state debt. It's an effort to transfer the money from the expense items to the government debt management chapter to create a reserve, a larger reserve of the state, and not spend the money. I have already presented the amendments in the second reading, so I will just pass quickly. I guess I'm not alone that a number of colleagues have done this, but I suggest, of course, that we cancel the compensation of fare discounts, CZK 5.5 billion to save, and that they are heading into the service of the state debt. I think that taxpayers' money in solidarity should be directed only to those who urgently need it, for example because of their medical condition or socially burdensome situation. We should be in solidarity with these citizens, but I do not think that taxpayers should be sympathetic to people who have decided to take the train on a trip, even though their property conditions are so good that they can afford this trip from their wallets. I really consider this a waste of public taxpayers' money, which is why I propose to save the sum of CZK 5.5 billion. I also propose to reduce export subsidies of CZK 400 million. We are an export-oriented economy, but our exports are doing well. I think our businessmen, our exporters are so clever, and these figures confirm that exports have been growing in quite decent numbers in recent years and it makes no sense from other business entities and taxpayers to raise money and redistribute it to exporters that are doing well anyway. Because I am a great critic of how public administration works, how big it is, both swell administration, so I have prepared an amendment which reduces the operating costs of several ministries, namely the ministries of the economic or economic nature that are of course closest to me. So I propose to reduce the operating expenses of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is a total amount of CZK 1 282 189 260. I think our government has room to reduce operating costs. And the last amendment is a proposal that reduces by CZK 400 million for spending the grant on strategic investment actions, which, in other words, are investment incentives. I consider investment incentives to be an economic crime where a limited group, in particular, is selected by large corporations directing tax resources from entrepreneurs, and by far smaller ones who cannot touch these investment funds. It is, of course, distorting the market environment and creating an unfair competitive environment in our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Jakub Janda, will be prepared for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u110	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, our nature is ill. We're worried about lightning floods, windstorms, we're worried about burning plastic waste, spruce-eating, and drought lately. So let me go back to my amendment and propose that we make 200 miles. moved to the section, or to Unit 315, and we strengthened the fight against drought. So we're not asking for any big dams, but we're asking for drawers, we're setting wetlands, we're setting small water tanks, and of course we're using the area that's on the roofs of our hypermarkets, logistics centers, and let's try not to plant it, so at least we're gonna spend it. Another 200 miles. I suggest we use it to process the waste. At present, we can clean up the waste, we can sort out the plastics, or we can collect the plastics, but we can't sort them out or process them. So if I could, I'd like to ask you for this support. And now you're asking where to get this money. There's a multi-ten-billion-dollar amount in the renewables department, and I think it's 400 miles. solar barons don't feel that much. Ladies and gentlemen, our SPD movement is not indifferent to the situation that is troubling our nature, and for this reason I would like to ask for the support of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jakub Janda is also registered. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Jiří Mihola will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u112	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, I have a question for you regarding the subsidy for the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors, and not only because of what this association is under the current leadership of Comrade Vodice, as I warned the Chamber of Deputies a few days ago, because the current government probably doesn't care. Let's talk about money, which could fall on more fertile soil. Your ministry found errors in the management of the union for about 900 thousand. Crowns. His officials paid more than they could, the union couldn't prove what part of the money he spent on. You yourself on Czech TV, to quote it literally, you called it a suspicion of a violation of budgetary discipline. I understand that less than a million for a government that spends billions doesn't have to be a problem. But that is a substantial amount for most of the population in this country. So my question is brief. I'd like the secretary to listen to me. [[Min. I'm listening to you!]] I'm glad. Thank you. You may not mind the ideological focus of the Union, i.e. defending the communist past and questioning our Western anchoring, but isn't that at least the reason to withdraw the proposed subsidy? You consider it responsible to point out another 6.3 miles to this pofidérém association. Kroner, or are you really so dependent on the support of your government from the Communists that you fear the means for the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors to cut? Or else. We live in a country where the Financial Administration doesn't hesitate to kneel to any company that she doesn't like, but the company that cheats in its books, you're gonna keep sending millions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jiří Mihola is also enrolled in the debate and Mr Jan Bartošek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a few statements on the draft state budget. Clearly, when we compare total revenue, total expenditure and a balance of 40 billion, we see that the government is a draft budget that does not match plans and promises to reduce deficits. But I would be relatively tolerant. I also use that word relatively because when you think about those state budgets, it is not possible to compare them completely and to say, this is top or very good and that is crazy because everyone is created in different conditions, under different circumstances and to compose a state budget in times of crisis, it is clear that there is something different than at a time of economic growth, even if it slows down for us. But that's why I think it's time to think about the leaner years and invest well. And we're kind of guessing, or are the first indications that the economy is slowing down not only in our country and thus in growth, and so it's a shame that we haven't been able to harness the potential I've seen here that it would be for some priority areas. It's in the government's declaration of support for science and research, it's support for education and education. I know that much has been said on this subject, and many are enchanted by many in the sense that much has been done, but that is not the answer to whether it should have been done much more, and to make it almost miraculously possible in some areas to join even the forces of the ruling coalition with those oppositions. The chance here is, of course, before the vote or in the vote, because there are proposals that actually relate to the implementation of the Government's programming declarations. There are some indications from the Coalition Members that they feel this way, so we'll see how words and actions are going to differ. I would just like to ask for the support of my amendments, not just mine, but KDU-ČSL, and I believe that you will be able to sign up for them, because most of them are about education and science and are about what is actually promised and what is the desired goal. And I even think, even though I was pointing out here that this deficit reduction promise isn't happening, I can imagine an area where it's better to invest even in a negative because it's going to come back many times. One of the great economists said: One crown or the euro, if you want, invested in education, will be returned six times. That's not enough. So it's not for waving your hand, or for us to take it out by being other areas, too. And we know that because of this, the Republic can move a lot if it invests this well. So in that chapter of the Ministry of Education, I propose a three billion increase in teachers' salaries. so that the incentive, over-the-counter, non-interest wage component in regional education is somehow passed. I'm sorry, and I'm not going to forgive myself here to say that I know that everything is not going well at once, and I'm always going to say to the Minister of Education, and now he's not here, but I appreciate everyone moving forward, and I'm willing to say that I'm glad that we're moving much faster in education than before. And I don't want to point out hypercritically and name some former ministers here, but remember, those pay shifts of a percentage and a half, two or three percent with great fame, that was awkward. Sometimes it was completely without moving, sometimes one felt that the minister was going against his resort even, and I believe that I was not alone with that feeling. On the contrary, I would point out many of the Minister's efforts against this, and I appreciate it, and not only in the field of education, any move forward, but we should not be satisfied with little. And is it necessary to point out that when regional education, what about higher education? It will sum up - teachers' salaries, but higher education teachers' salaries simply stand, and we will get into absurd situations, that those who prepare future teachers that we lack, and who are supposed to motivate and discover the teachers' talents in them, so they will just be worse off than they are in spite of the promises made to pay regional teachers. And I don't want to put it against each other in any way, just to think comprehensively, because everything has to do with everything in education, and if one of those floors doesn't work, the whole system just won't work. [[19.20 hours]] I'm also suggesting 2 billion. to solve the surcharge for the sorting industry. You know, it's been here in the House for, like, a year and a half, a proposal from Marek the Výborný, our chairman, without going anywhere. If we could at least discuss it, or say no to each other, or otherwise, or someone with some genius other idea, but here it's parked and we're pretending like everything's okay. It's not. Then let's talk about some prestige or how much we appreciate that teaching is hard, and how they have it, as a class teacher in particular, what they have to do, we just don't deal with it. So I want us to deal with this. And there's a possibility. As well as investing in the so-called ONIV - other non-investment expenditure. I believe that even those here who really think about this education, and you know here about these matters, that some are actually in such a critical state that you will give in and support this amendment from the coalition. And then we often talk about foreign affairs and that we don't want migrants here, well, that's almost the point, and that we will - but always followed the sentence: We want to help where it needs to be. In the same places, it's the most effective help. So I would like to take advantage of the fact that there are really resources within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that could be used for a specific indicator of humanitarian aid, so I propose this, whether it concerns humanitarian and health aid for Syria or for the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq. You will also find this amendment under my name. And, you know, from a budget point of view, these are negligible items. So here I believe that the idea and the substance of the thing will really prevail, rather than some kind of dragging over the budget for change. It would take a lot more, but at least some help, better than none. And in the field of culture, even there, I tried to make sure it wasn't at the expense of state debt, but in the context of moving that chapter. With all due respect to cinema, I also like to watch high-quality films, but I think that we should plan the finances better within the Ministry of Culture and strengthen the folder if I simplify it very much, museum pedagogy and related things. There's a lot of talk about it, regions see it that way, I have a response from them, I believe that's how many of you have been approached, but there's a need to do something about it, because sometimes it turns out, who comes more, screams more, which from the cinema they always sign up for, so the rest is like being pushed to the edge and it shouldn't be. And finally, when the support of science, you know, we probably agree here without a problem, at least I always felt on the school committee across political clubs, the support of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. It's our pride, there are really heads worth supporting. And they don't just think about themselves, but they think about the future, the support of young talented scientists, and the environment in which they're supposed to work. It is not possible to say: we will support it some other time or when there will never be enough resources. When we are to confront this foreigner, those foreign experts who are coming here, we should not feel like poor relatives, especially when we know that the path of support for science is one of the ways in which the Czech Republic can break through against those areas where we have long since lost those positions. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, and I am very much asking for the support of my amendments. I believe that they are measured and are actually correlated with what the government's programming statement says. Once again, thank you for all the positive things that have been done, but let's try to add something more to that, let's make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u115	Thank you. And there is one factual point - Mr Janda. Isn't that right? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u116	Thank you. I'll take advantage of the facts. I asked the Minister, I asked her a question, and I would very much like it if I asked you politely if you would answer me politely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u117	Yes, thank you. Next is the debate by President Bartošek, Mr Onderka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u118	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Just for a little while. I would like to ask you, dear members of the government and colleagues, and especially members of the coalition, to support my changemakers, who are really negligible in terms of the large numbers and the billions, and yet very important for the security of the Czech state. I would like to ask you for an amendment that moves 8 billion. for the National Security Bureau. It's really very important. An office that carries out security clearances that stores classified documents. Eight million is really beyond the Ministry of Finance's discernment, yet it will do a great deal of work. And then I have two suggestions, which are in the sum of about 63 miles. They concern the National Bureau of Cyber and Information Security. Again, the amounts that are very low. On the other hand, cyber security of the Czech Republic is absolutely essential. Let's get away from some personal animosities that the Prime Minister showed during the interpelation. Let's think about the fact that cyber security is really crucial, and the 63 miles. is really money that will help a lot. And last but not least, I'd like to ask you for 35 miles. in order to ensure the functioning of prevention and treatment in the field of drug policy, because there is a real risk that the network may collapse and that there will be no one to help these people to have the opportunity to come back, to heal, to start a new life. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u119	Thank you, Mr President. And there is one factual point, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to follow up on Mr Janda through Mr President and ask the Minister to answer us in the context of the general debate, not in the final words, because then we, what we propose to change this item, do not have a chance to respond. And I would just like to remind you that in 2016, Andrej Babiš himself said the following to the Czech Freedom Warriors Union: Criticism is huge. Of course I don't like it, we'll have it properly investigated, and if it's confirmed, of course we'll be against it. That's what the Prime Minister said in 2016. You are still proposing subsidies for the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors. Now we see that there are problems and possible violations of budget discipline of 900 thousand. The crown, yet you suggest it. And we do not know what to think about it, because the Prime Minister repeatedly criticizes it and repeatedly resists the club of the ANO movement - which is unique, because at other times he does not resist it, he always resists and declares this subsidy. Actually, Madam Secretary, we'd like to know why you're proposing this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u121	Thank you. Mr Onderka is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u122	Mr President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to ask you to support my amendment, which addresses an increase in funds of 60 million. CZK to OSPOD, that means the legal protection of children. I'll only explain technically. It must be said that, as far as these funds are concerned, I have tabled this amendment because the salary adjustment was only after the budget was drawn up. The Minister and I have been communicating this matter. I think we have the same opinion. I just want to ask you to support this changeling, which I consider more technical, given that this is really an important matter. [[19.30 hours]] The budget itself. Social democracy has already commented on the budget itself, its structure, its size, expenditure, investment finance and others several times. However, in the third, final reading, I will not forgive myself for a minor reminder of the issues that social democracy has succeeded in achieving in negotiations. Department of Labour and Social Affairs. The next year's budget brings two major priorities and achievements of social democracy, an increase in average income of CZK 900, an increase in parental contribution of 80 000. CZK 300 thousand. Kč. It is important that money was found for both pension growth and parental contribution. But, for example, money was also found for an active employment policy of 1.5 billion. CZK, almost 600 miles. for foster care or 17.5 billion. social services. Home Office. We managed to raise money for firefighters and cops. In 2020, the resort will be managed with about 81.5 billion. CZK, which is almost 4 billion. CZK more than the original design. In negotiations, nearly a billion crowns were obtained to restore the fleet of policemen and firefighters this year. The money will be used next year, among other things: 400 million. for reconstruction of police and fire stations, 100 miles. for the purchase of high-rise equipment for firefighters, 500 miles. the replacement of the fleet of security forces. The amount of investment is threefold compared to 2013. Department of Agriculture. Originally proposed draft state budget of 23 billion. CZK 1 billion was increased in the following items: 300 million. for subsidies for water management, 700 million. subsidies for forestry. These two areas are currently very up-to-date and require extraordinary attention, as has already been said by my previous speakers, in relation to drought and dangerous bark. The proposed budget expenditure of 24 billion. CZK is less than 400 miles. CZK lower than in 2019, which is an amount that represents a mandatory savings of 10 per cent of operating expenses, which the resort must provide. Against the approved budget for this year, subsidies for water management increase by 300 million in 2020. CZK 1.8 billion in total. This year it was 1.5 billion. Kč. For forestry subsidies of 500 million. CZK for more than 1.1 billion. CZK this year after the increase. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thanks to the CZK quarter-billion additionally in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it will be possible to establish a new representative office of our Republic in Singapore. We managed to negotiate money for other activities, such as foreign development cooperation or help people in places where another refugee wave could come from. Ministry of Culture. By the way, that is what the Minister of Culture of Zaorálek said today - the strategic objective of the Ministry of Culture was to get in the budget for a 1% share of the state budget. The main objective for us was to increase the salaries of employees in culture, return to the field of support for living art and rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, based on the original form of the draft budget. The Ministry of Culture's expenditure for 2020 is designed to amount to 15.2 billion. Kč. This is just an easy list of issues in the negotiations that social democracy has managed to negotiate and why the Social Democrats, all present, will support the budget of the Czech Republic as the most important law of this year for next year, 2020. The debate that fell here regarding the increase in the salaries of the Ministry of Education, the amendment tabled by my honourable colleagues, colleague Valachová and colleague Votava. It must be said that it is probably logical that most of us would agree to add funds for teachers. Most of us would certainly support the proposal, which, by the way, we also have in the government's programming statement and in the coalition agreement, which means a 15% increase. It is pointless to blame social democracy for not supporting this proposal in the majority, because something else, according to its consciousness and conscience, is to make this proposal, which both of my honored colleagues have done, and something else is to address the compromise that must always occur in the allocation of funds for next year, which means a coalition agreement on the budget for 2020. Social democracy will support this proposal, and I do not blame my colleagues for having tabled the amendment in their own way and, above all, for allowing the parliamentary pledge that we have made to all Members and all Members in this honourable House. From this point of view, I just want to point out that, in addition to having an opinion, the Social Democrats also keep their word, every time they shake hands. That's twice for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Everything suggests that we are coming to a conclusion, to a finish, as President Stanjura has submitted himself to the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman. Then President Excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u124	So I don't know if we're getting close to a conclusion or a finish. Anybody know where the Prime Minister is? [[Voices from the diaper.]] MEPs are screaming: what would he be doing here? Well, maybe after he's been talking for three hours over nine, he might as well listen to us for three hours. I know it seems brave to you that you're afraid to tell him it would be polite for him to stay here for three hours without telling us anything new. So the next time you guys holler at me that I've been talking for two and a half hours, just remember today's Andrej and please compare the contents of his speech and, for example, the contents of my speech to the tax package, and then we'll definitely agree who spoke to the point and who talked to the fifth over the ninth. But before I say what I signed up for, he won't let me respond to the pretty words of my previous speaker. I want to assure him that we won't blame the Social Democrats, we won't ask them for anything because it's worth nothing. I understand that, the chair first of all, but I can't imagine any of my colleagues or colleagues making a reasonable amendment to the state budget in our club, and the party has sunk them. Nice words, but she sank and threw overboard. Then it's pointless that we blame you for anything or anything you're asked to do, because if you can't hold your own people, then how can you argue a deal with someone else? I could, like many of you today, justify my amendments in detail, although I have served on behalf of the entire parliamentary club, and it would not be fair for me to pretend that they are all mine. They have numbers - it ends with B78 and it starts with a number around B61. I'm just going to ask my colleagues, I've left my cell phone there, and I have a calculator to see if they'd put it here, because in three of our proposals, I have a remark in the House of Material that they're not voteable, and I want to prove to you on the numbers that it's not true. If we take the amendment under B75, when we take - this is important - from the government's budget reserve of 150 million. CZK, so it is note that the amendment reduces -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u125	I would ask Members who are discussing directly in front of the counter to discuss in the foyer, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u126	There is a remark from the rapporteur that the amendment, which reduces the state of the government's budgetary reserve below 0,3 % of expenditure, is unvoting. Of course, I know that the minimum limit is 0.3 percent. That's why I took the phone so that - if so, the Minister and the rapporteur can control me. [[19.40 hours]] The government's budgetary reserve is calculated from the total expenditure of the state budget, which at the moment amounts to 1 618.1 billion. It follows that 0.3 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget is exactly 4,854,300,000. The government draft item of the government budget reserve contains a proposal of CZK 5 020 470 508. I would like to appreciate the work of the Ministry of Finance that they are able to calculate the government's budget reserve on the koruna. I bet it doesn't run out of money. We propose to withdraw 150 miles from this amount. CZK, so the resulting amount is 4 870 471 508 CZK, which is in percentage terms 0,30098, which is clearly a higher number than 0,3. So, just the rapporteur, please let us vote on this proposal because it meets the legal requirements. For Amendment B76 and B77, it is written that there is no item specifications. We understood that when we did not mention the specification of the items, it was cross-cutting, rapporteur. Cross-section, therefore, means a percentage of each item. So I think the B76 and B77 proposals are also voteable. We are prepared to accept the result of the vote, but I think I have shown that the proposals are simply voteable. I have already discussed this with the rapporteur in advance, so I think we have the same opinion, but for the record, I have read it on a microphone to record it, because you have all or anyone who wanted it, so he could study the 605/3 material there in those notes. I've set things right here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u127	I thank you, Mr President, and I ask who else is interested in speaking in the third reading on this point. President Excellent was signed in, then Madam Secretary. You both have priority, you both report standard. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would, of course, let the Minister go, but we agreed to leave it at that end. I just want to say two specific things. First of all, by your means of social democracy, I think, I have a feeling here, spread out into individual atoms. I would like to emphasise mainly to the pedagogical and teaching public, so if really social democracy or communists do not want to support the proposals that were made here from the mouth of, for example, Kateřina Valachová, so everyone bear in mind that Kateřina Valachová's performance here was one big theater, one big teitra. The truth is that these things really should have been negotiated in the course of some coalition negotiations, coalition council, and then it would have made some sense. But we are prepared, and we are saying this from the very beginning continuously, we are prepared to support the increase in teacher salaries as promised, and it is only a matter of one particular other Member and a government coalition whether to support this. And the second thing I have to say, and here I'd like the Secretary of Finance and the Vice Prime Minister to listen, too, because it's heading towards her. [[Secretary of Finance off the mic.]] I know, of course, not at all, but this concerns a small matter, and that is the subsidy to the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters. I'm going to put things aside, let's say, ideologically, because, of course, I, too, have great reservations about how the representatives of this union appear in public. Of course, this also has to do with others, with whom this organization, for example. he's working together. But I'm only interested in one thing. If any association in the municipality, city or region level, at the level of the city, municipality or region applied for a subsidy, any subsidy, and did not have a properly charged subsidy from the previous year, will it receive a single crown from the application? We all know because we know the subsidy rules in the municipalities and regions that he won't get a crown. Is it possible that your public administrative control of this union has found shortcomings of about CZK 900 000 out of 18 million audited - these are not small - is such an organisation possible, and I completely disregard what organisation it is, is it possible to grant this organisation a subsidy from the state budget? I am really serious about this, because I consider this to be a matter relating to whether we approach the state budget with proper care of the economy. I would like all Members to take this into account, because I think we are responsible for managing the budget with proper care. I'd be happy if the secretary responded and answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u129	I thank you, and your performance has raised two factual points. First, Mr Dolínek, then Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u130	Good evening. I would like, through Mr President, to tell the speaker that, firstly, I would like no one else to whistle to us, a social democracy. I think we know how we decide and how we don't. For myself, I must say that the resolution of the Czechoslovak ČSSD is clearly in favour of teachers, and the question is what way we are going to get to it, but there is certainly a need to put the money there. But I would like to ask how many times your party, Mr President through Mr President, has come to the government, the press, and has proposed a salary increase of 5, 10, 15, 20 percent since you were in the government. [[unintelligible]] Not once. So please don't teach anyone else how to do politics when we, thanks to Mrs. Valachová, have been raising our salaries to teachers over the long term and not making the opulent gestures you're making here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u131	Thank you, that's one point of fact. Now, Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact. Another factual one, President Bartošek reporting from the scene. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u132	Happily, carrying out a mandate according to its best knowledge and conscience, happiness is still not a theatre in this country. I think through Mr President that I do not have to teach Marek the Výborný Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u133	Thank you. President Bartošek, with the facts, then Mr Jurečka. All factual points. Your two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only through you to your colleagues in social democracy. You know perfectly well that you were in that government, too. The economic crisis was over, yes. What salary increase did you come up with then? What were your ideas? Then don't train us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u135	One more point of fact. Mr Jurečka withdrew it, but a new one appeared from Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u136	Just very briefly. I regret, through Mr President, that KDU-ČSL colleagues have already forgotten this, but if we have been in the government of YES, CSSD and KDU-ČSL, I do not think that I will recall and will not prolong the vote that we look forward to, with which proposals who and how came, who defended it. Who cares if he asks for tapes from the government meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u137	So, Mr Jurečka didn't last. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u138	I can't do it, but my dear Kateřina Valachová through Mr President. We support it, we have no problem with it at all. We're very happy to support your proposal. You don't have to convince us. And to Mr Dolínek. He sometimes shoots good goals into his own gate. In that last government, we shared the common salary. And we had the same designs as you. So please don't say nicely that we did more or less, we were there anyway. So the people who are watching us, let's make some sort of conclusion. We will be happy to support the proposal that you put forward here as Social Democrat Members, some of us, for KDU-ČSL. But please, nicely, convince your coalition partners to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u139	Thank you, we have dealt with the factual points and now for the debate by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am speaking in the debate, Mr Janda and others, and I am speaking in the debate. I'd like to explain. I'm gonna stay right, I was gonna say first that I can't jump on skis, so you're gonna say something that you don't know anything about, but I'm gonna stay right. The subsidy, the subsidy goes to the VPS and this The Chamber of Deputies has approved it since the 1990s. We still deal with this every year. We've been through this before, we've been through this over and over again. The Ministry of Finance on Friday last week - for you to doubt that the Financial Administration is not doing - on Friday last week, and I said this to the media, you can track it down, put an end to control by the Ministry of Finance in three years and noted suspicions of a breach of budgetary discipline up to 5%, which is roughly the amount you mentioned over the three years. And there were three circles of trouble. And I'm not evaluating it at all, I'm just stating it in a matter of fact. The first was that contracts for carrying out work were concluded to an extent greater than 300 hours a year. The second was that there were hired services, where it was not clear what they were used for. And then there were some promotional items, like they weren't explained. So the Treasury ended it on Friday, there's already some deadline for objections. It has been exhausted, the objections have been settled and it is now being passed on. There's no delay at all. This is passed on to the Financial Administration, which is the only authority that can declare a breach of budgetary discipline. So that's two things. Suspicions and then, of course, possible facts of the Financial Administration about violations. Which goes on for a while, because it's a tax procedure that goes on under rules other than the rules of control that the Ministry of Finance has followed. And the Treasury can't authentically state that. He can only state suspicion and pass it on to the Financial Administration, which is happening these days. So, of course, when it comes to checking the evidence, the statement, and so on, that's how it went down. This is about the fact that a check has been carried out according to the rules of control, this has been stated and the Financial Administration must initiate, it is simply within its competence, the infringement of budgetary discipline and the possibility of proof. And that's actually where this procedure is going to take some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u141	Thank you. President Stanjura withdrew his point of order. Now, Mr Janda, de facto, then President Kalousek, from the point of view. Really? Both are possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u142	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't recommend jumping on skis, Madam Secretary, it wouldn't go well. But okay. I don't blame you for being a lawyer, and you're building an economic budget. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] Well, that's one thing. Second thing. There's some mistake on the part of the Warrior Union about accounting, and we're offering you a solution. There are at least two amendments you can deal with, you can vote in favour, you can convince your parliamentary club. And then when it's resolved and the Warrior League starts acting the way it really should, or the leadership, then I won't have a problem suggesting next year to get the money even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u143	Thank you. And so now the President can choose whether he wants to debate or whether he wants to do so. [[Member Kalousek: Thirty seconds.]] So let's make it real, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u144	Thank you for the floor. The Minister has actually described the process correctly. That's how the budget discipline infringement procedure goes. But then there's also a political decision if The Chamber of Deputies wants or does not want to grant public funding to the band that calls itself the Union of Fighters for Freedom. And I think giving them that grant at this rate is just a disgrace. Regardless of whether they have violated budgetary discipline or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u145	Thank you. It really was exactly 30 seconds. Now, Mr Bělobrádek, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think my colleague has given the Czech Republic a really good advertising as a representative. I don't think we can say that about this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u147	Well, that was a short factual point. At the moment, no one else is enrolled in the general debate for the third reading. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. I see no one, and the debate is over. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. [[- Yes, Minister Schiller.]] Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will soon be voting on the most important law of this year, a law that will enable our country and our citizens to do better, that we will invest in the necessary projects and important priorities such as education, science, research, health, the living standards of seniors and other areas where the Czech Republic will return in the future. For the future of our country, investment in science, research, education as well as in the backbone transport infrastructure is crucial. We all know that investment is the engine of the economy and is moving our country forward. This is especially true at a time when economic growth is slowing down. From national sources alone, therefore, the proposed proposal envisages investments in a record-breaking amount of 88 billion. Together with European money, 146 billion will go to investment, which is almost 24 billion more than this year. All of you who support the budget vote for better transport infrastructure, hospital investments, restoration of cultural monuments, construction of kindergarten schools, railway stations, apartments. We want our economy to remain competitive, not lag behind...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u149	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. The debate is coming to an end. If you have a need to deal with something, please go to the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u150	We want our economy to remain competitive, not lagging behind, but being modern and giving direction. That is why we are presenting a budget that allows R&D and innovation spending to rise to a total volume of CZK 47,6 billion, which is 5.5 billion more than this year. We do this knowing that investments in development and innovation have a significant multiplier effect and are investments in the future, in the future of all of us. At the same time, however, the budget must also think of today's burning problems. It therefore pursues and fulfils the long-term objective, I believe, of all Members in this House, which is to improve the situation of two and a half million seniors living in our country. From 1 January, the old-age pension will increase by CZK 900 on average. However, we will continue to increase the living standard of seniors to reach an average pension of at least CZK 15,000 next year. This path, which we are bringing to the budget, means almost twice as much valorisation as it was in 2018, three times greater than it was since 1 January 2017 and twenty times as much as it was in 2014. If you raise your hand for this budget, you will vote for a more dignified life of seniors for their lifelong work and care for their families and loved ones. Of course, the budget also improves the standard of living economically active. If we look at wage developments in professions such as firefighters, policemen, soldiers, doctors, nurses, medical staff, teachers and non-teaching workers, but also civil servants, because high-quality government requires decently paid professionals, we have come a long way since 2014. A huge part of the way that brought us closer to the sessions usual to the west of our borders. We are fulfilling what has seemed unattainable for decades. And we're doing well economically. Compared to per capita GDP, according to the latest OECD report, we ended up in 16th place and reached developed countries such as Israel and South Korea. For the first time, we have outrun Spain, leaving behind the other countries of the Visegrad Four and the Baltic States, but also Portugal, Cyprus and Slovenia. I am extremely proud of our country and its results. [[20.00 hours]] Despite the slight slowdown in the economy, we are proposing the same deficit as this year. It corresponds to 0,7 per cent of gross domestic product. These are at least the lowest ever since 2000. State debt is also declining over the long term. Total public finances ran the second best surplus in history last year. The debt of the general government sector has been declining steadily since 2013 and has fallen to 32,6 percent of GDP last year. According to these criteria, the Czech Republic was the third most efficient EU country in 2018. They're trends we can be proud of. And this budget ensures that we continue to do so. We have spoken here repeatedly during the budget negotiations, but also today about two myths. The first was that the government was supposedly acting pro-cyclically. I would like to say here that today the National Budget Board has issued an opinion in which it considers the setting of fiscal policy in 2020, the key instrument of which is precisely the discussion of the draft state budget, to be macroeconomically optimal. Indeed, fiscal policy should be neutral. On the one hand, this means not deepening imbalances in the economy, but, on the other hand, not implementing fiscal restrictions that would have negative economic consequences. Therefore, the draft state budget is presented with the same deficit as this year. There was criticism of the fiscal policy setting in the period of structural surpluses. In 2008, I would like to remind you, this has been mentioned several times, before the onset of the crisis, the structural deficit was 3.2 percent of GDP. So that was the readiness of public finances for a worse time. I guess that's what the real tendency to reserve was at the time. The subsequent decline to minus 4.2 percent of GDP in 2009 could hardly surprise anyone. The situation today is different, disproportionately better. The government is fulfilling the budget target with a large reserve, the structural balance last year has even reached a surplus of 0.6%, and this year the balance is essentially balanced, unlike the previous times that I was talking about here. We have a structural balance high above the budgetary objective. This, ladies and gentlemen, then represents the real reserve for cyclical fluctuations in the economy. We've created a record reserve for worse times. Unfortunately, this comfort has not been left to us. Myth number two - tax increases. Again, this shows a somewhat selective memory. Governments in the last five years, including 2020, will count on a reduction in VAT effective from 1. 5. 2020 has reduced the overall tax burden by 130 billion, whether by extending the second reduced VAT rate, reducing VAT to catering services, newspapers, magazines, adjusting the flat rate for businessmen, increasing the discount on children, introducing kindergarten fees, exempting social services or returning the tax credit to retired workers. Another great opportunity is the amendment to the Sales Recording Act and its part of the VAT Act amendment. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] You also spoke during those three readings about concerns about proper and consistent tax collection. You are supposedly worried about the consistency of the fight against tax evasion and fraud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u151	Madam Vice-President of the Government, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace in all parts of the House. We'll wait a little longer. Colleagues and colleagues, I hope we can get to the vote soon, and I will ask you for peace of mind. Please continue, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u152	You are supposedly worried about the consistency of the fight against tax evasion and fraud. I can reliably distract your concerns. They are completely disproved by all the latest reports of independent authorities, whether it is the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in the annual report, which highlighted the activities of Tax Cobra, the National Headquarters against organized crime, but also the Supreme Audit Office, which appreciated better tax collection. So allow me just a brief summary to conclude. Next year we expect record investments, more money goes to education, science and research or road repairs. All this will come back to us in the future. On the other hand, the government as a whole manages the surplus, the government debt is low and stable, which ranks us among the best-run EU countries. At the same time, the proposal supports the inclusive growth of our economy, as it increases the standard of living not only for seniors but also for families caring for young children, it helps to increase confidence in the turbulent times of growing trade protectionism, uncertain future relations with the United Kingdom or the form of European integration. In short, and well, we have built a balanced draft budget with the foundations that move the Czech Republic forward to the most successful countries in terms of possibilities and economic conditions. Thank you in advance for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u153	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová for the final vote. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. It's not like that. The proposal was presented in its reporting report and, according to this proposal, we would first vote on the proposed procedure for voting on this draft law. Madam rapporteur, I ask you to repeat it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u154	Dear Vice-Presidents, members of the Government, colleagues, let me propose a procedure for voting on the draft State Budget Act for 2020. We would start with the amendments under letter A, which are the amendments to the Committee on Budgets. Furthermore, we would continue with the amendments under letter B. These are the proposals of individual Members, as they were presented at second reading, and we would vote chronologically in the way that individual Members have applied to them. Once we have voted on them all, we will vote on the final resolution of the Chamber of Deputies whether or not the state budget will be approved. If approved, we will continue voting on eight accompanying resolutions. This is a draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u155	Everyone understand? [[No objections.]] We will approve the draft procedure in vote 147, which I immediately initiate. I'm asking who's for the procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 147, from 197 for 181 Members present, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We will now vote on the amendments under the approved procedure. I ask the rapporteur to address the various amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u156	So we will begin voting on the amendments in Annex A, which are the amendments to the Committee on Budgets. I would just like to point out that, as rapporteur, I am not going to give an opinion because these amendments did not go through the Committee on Budgets, I think, the Members, so that the opinion of the Committee on Budgets was not taken on this. So I, as rapporteur, am not going to give unnecessary direction to my vote, unless you demand that I do otherwise. So let's start voting. The first amendment under order number A1 of the Budget Committee, where the General Treasury is increased by 600 million, is a subsidy title for small municipalities up to 3 000. The people, I'll say it in simple terms, for schools and apartments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u157	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 148. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 148, from 197 in favour of 138, against 28. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u158	The next proposal is under order number A2. It is again a transfer in the General Treasury administration, namely an increase in the Czechoslovak Institute of Foreign Affairs, an amount of 1 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u159	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 149. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 149, from 196 in favour of 145, against 12. The motion was accepted. President of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u160	It is, ladies and gentlemen, of course, just the rapporteur's recommendation, but we each have a very clear piece of work ahead of us. And if all we ever say is the number, I think we're gonna do it faster. But of course it's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u161	Thank you for this proposal. Of course I'd rather, so I'd be happy to oblige you, my colleague, if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u162	If there is no reservation against this procedure, which has been proposed? Okay. Is there a reservation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u163	It's okay. So in that case, I will say, if we agree on this, a serial number, or then, when it comes to parliamentary proposals, which Member and what therefore wants to say by this proposal. If there is an objection, we will continue this very briefly. [[Inadmissible votes from members of the YES.]] It's an objection, and I think it's fair to oblige colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u164	Okay. So now we're going to continue with A3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u165	We are with Amendment A3, which is an increase or reduction in total expenditure for separate chapters, which takes into account decisions on increases in civil servants' salaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u166	Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 150, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 150 197 present, 161 Member of Parliament for, 3 against. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u167	Serial No A4, which is within the scope of the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs an increase of 600 million. social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u168	Opinion? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 151. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 151 of 197 present for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u169	We are now on the amendments in Annex B, which are parliamentary proposals. Let's start with B1, which is my colleague Jana Černochová - an increase in the Ministry of Defence chapter by 30 million. 195 thousand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u170	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote with order number 152. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 152 of the presence 197 60 pro, 98 a. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u171	The next proposal is B2 - again my colleague Černochová, once again increased in the chapter of the Ministry of Defence by 5 billion. 500 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u172	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I have begun the vote by order number 153. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 153 of 197 present for 41 Member, against 16. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u173	The next proposal is B3 by colleague Miroslav Kalousek. It's an increase in the chapter of the National Cyber and Information Security Office - 90 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u174	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote with order number 154 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 154 of 197 for 63, against 95. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u175	Next is the proposal of Mr. Miroslav Kalousek's B4 colleague. There is an increase for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports 250 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u176	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've begun the vote with order number 155. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 155 of 197 present for 64, against 97. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u177	B5 - it is a transfer in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, the translator Pavel Kováčik - 300 mil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u178	Opinion? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 156. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 156 from the present 197 108 pro, against 44. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u179	Another proposal is B6 - variant 1, translator Vít Kaňkovský, Pavla Golasowská - it is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - an increase of 1.5 billion. social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u180	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've begun the vote on order 157. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 157 of 196 present for 62, anti 90. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u181	The next proposal is again B6 - variant 2, once again increase to social services - 900 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u182	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've begun the vote on order 158. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 158 of 195 present for 59, against 86. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u183	We are still with Amendment B6 - option 3. Again an increase to social services by 900 miles. - this time it's a gateway to other items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u184	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote with order number 159. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 159 of the 196 present for 61 Members, against 89. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u185	Proposal B7 - variant 1, Mr Kaňkovský. It's an increase of the Ministry of Health - 30 miles. to a medical facility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u186	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've begun the vote on order number 160. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 160 from 197 for 61 Members present, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u187	We are again at B7, this time variant 2, again increase by 30 mil. - this time on other items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u188	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote with order number 161, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 161 out of 197 for 60, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u189	The next proposal is B8 - variant 1, again Vít Kaňkovský, again an increase of 30 mil. to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u190	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote with order number 162, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 162 of 197 for 82, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u191	The next proposal is B8 - variant 2, it is again at the Ministry of Health, again 30 mil. other items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u192	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I have begun the vote on order number 163. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 163 out of 197 for 65, against 99. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u193	The next proposal is the B9 colleague Kaňkovsky - Ministry of Health, an increase of 500 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u194	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote on order number 164 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 164 out of 196 for 61, against 99. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u195	Another proposal is the B10 of my colleague Dominik Feri - an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment by 2 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u196	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 165. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 165 out of 196 for 53, against 103. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u197	The next proposal is Mr Dominik Feri - Ministry of Justice again, an increase of 10 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u198	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 166. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 166 out of 197 for 62, against 101. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u199	The next proposal is Mr. Dominik Feri B12 - increase of the Ministry of Culture by 1 billion. Kč. I'm just pointing out here that the specifications are wrong, but we're going to have them voted out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u200	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started the vote 167. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 167, 197 present, for 53, against 108. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u201	The next proposal is Mr. Dominik Feri B13 - it's for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - Kangaroos 10 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u202	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 168. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 168 out of 196 for 80, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u203	Another proposal B14 by Dominik Feri - an increase in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes of 5 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u204	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 169. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 169 of 197 present for 42, against 99. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u205	Another proposal B15 by Dominik Feri within the Ministry of Industry and Trade - there is a transfer of 3 million. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u206	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 170. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 170 of 197 present for 53, against 101. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u207	The next proposal is Mr Dominik Feri B16 - an increase in the Ministry of Education chapter by 1 billion. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u208	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 171. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 171, 197 present, 42 in favour, 96 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u209	The next proposal is B17 Dominik Feri - raising the chapter of the Ministry of Education and Youth by 3 billion. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u210	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 172. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 172, present in 197, for 61, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u211	The next proposal is Mr. Dominic Feri's B18 - the increase of the Grant Agency and the Technology Agency - together 1 billion. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u212	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 173. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 173, present in 197, for 63, against 102. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u213	The next proposal is B19 - the proposal of Mr František Vácha - the increase of the Ministry of Justice 10 million. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u214	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 174. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 174, 197 present, for 59, against 104. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u215	The next proposal is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's B20. It's a transfer in a chapter of the Ministry of the Interior 120 miles. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u216	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting 175. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 175, present in 197, for 142, against 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u217	The next proposal is the B21 by Mrs Jana Krutáková - an increase to land adjustments of 300 miles. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u218	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 176. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 176, 197 present, 62 in favour, 102 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u219	The next proposal is Mr Stanislav Blaha's B22 and there is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport of the Transport Infrastructure Fund by CZK 4 404 921 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u220	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 177. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 177, present 197, for 55, against 91. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u221	Another proposal is B23 - again colleague Blaha - increase of the chapter of the Ministry of Transport State Fund of Transport Infrastructure by the amount of CZK 2 890 058 638.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u222	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 178. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 178, 196 present, for 52, against 93. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u223	The next proposal is B24 - again a colleague of Blaha. There's an increase in the Ministry of Culture chapter by 30 miles. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u224	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 179. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 179, 197 present, 79 in favour, 90 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u225	The next proposal is B25 - again my colleague Blaha - an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture by 50 million. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u226	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 180. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 180, 197 present, 79 in favour, 95 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u227	The next proposal is B26 - again Mr Blaha. It's a transfer in a chapter of the Ministry of Transport for a total of 5,500 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u228	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 181. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 181, 197 present, 60 pros, 100 cons. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u229	The next proposal is B27 again, Mr Blaha, moving again in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport, this time in the amount of 4.5 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u230	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 182. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 182 is 196 present, for 61, against 101. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u231	The next proposal is B28 again colleague Blaha - an increase in the Ministry of Transport chapter by 1.840 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u232	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 183. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 183, 196 is present, for 79, against 100. The motion was denied. I have a request for a check-out. I checked you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards and we'll continue. [[You can't log in.]] Well, I'm gonna take you all out one more time. One more registration, please. Let's keep going. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u233	The next proposal is B29 to Mrs Olga Richterová. It is a transfer in a chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs amounting to 50 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u234	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 184. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 184, 189, for 42, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u235	The next proposal is B30, again Mrs Richterová and Mikuláš Ferjenčík, moving again in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs amounting to CZK 200 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u236	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 185. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 185 present 190, for 80, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u237	The next proposal is B31, the translator Václav Votava and Kateřina Valachová, an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by CZK 3 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u238	I started voting number 186. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 186 of Members present, for 68, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Shall we continue? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u239	Hello, I'm so sorry, unfortunately my colleague poured coffee into my voting machine. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] Please log out, I'll sign in somewhere else and we'll continue, it'll work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u240	Okay, I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Shall we continue? Is everyone logged in? If both of them are lit, that's fine, because there's still an indication of the last vote. [[Member Novak.]] There's another vote now, 187. In this we will decide on another proposal. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u241	It'll be B32. B31 is voted out, no vote has been called into question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u242	The vote has not been called into question, but there has only been an application to another Member's seat. We're good to go. B32, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u243	Yes, B32, translator Miroslav Grebeníček, increase for the Academy of Sciences 50 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u244	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I started voting number 187. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 187 from the present 190 for 133, against 20. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u245	The next proposal is B33, the translator Radek Holomčík, it is the transfer of State Debt, General Treasury Administration, 400 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u246	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 188. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 188 of the Member present 191 for 63, against 101. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u247	Another proposal B34 by Radek Holomčík - transfer in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, 120 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u248	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 189. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 189 present 192, for 64, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u249	The next proposal is B35, the translator Radek Holomčík. It is a transfer in the Ministry of Agriculture category of CZK 14 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u250	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 190. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 190, 193, for 44, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u251	Another proposal is B36, translator Petr Třešňák, Jan Bartošek, Olga Richterová, Tomáš Vymazal. This is a transfer from state debt to the Office of the Government and it is CZK 35 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u252	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 191. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 191 of 193 present for 42, against 96. The motion was not accepted. I ask the House for peace, so that the rapporteur can, if you have requested it, say individual items. Go ahead, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u253	Next issue is B37, translator František Navrkal. It is an increase of chapters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education in the total amount of 44 124 968 crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u254	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 192. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 192, present 193, for the 61st Member, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u255	The next proposal is the B38 of the Pirates. This is an increase in the government's budgetary reserve of CZK 12 696 176 540.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u256	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting number 193. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 193's vote, 193, 53's vote against 100. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u257	The next proposal is B39. The author, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, is an increase in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by CZK 500 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u258	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 194. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 194. Of the present 193 for 64, against 95. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u259	The next proposal is B40. Publisher Mikuláš Ferjenčík, increase in the Office of the Government, adictological services, 2 million 200. [[1000 crowns]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u260	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 195. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 195. Of the present 193 for 62, against 165. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u261	The next proposal is B41. Publisher Mikuláš Ferjenčík, increasing again the Office of the Government, adictological services, 50 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u262	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 196. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 196. Of the present 193 for 59, against 116. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u263	The next proposal is B42. The author Jiří Kobza, it is a transfer within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of CZK 70 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u264	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 197. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 197. Of the present 194 for 17, against 136. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u265	The next proposal is B43. The author of Radovan Vích, it is a transfer in a chapter of the Ministry of Defence amounting to forty-eight-nine million eight hundred thirty-four thousand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u266	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 198. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 198. Of the present 194 for 16, against 145. The motion was denied. Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u267	Thank you. Just for the record. In the previous vote number 197, I have a pro at high school, and yet I was against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u268	Okay. We can continue because it was an expression for the log. Another position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u269	Now we're... [[President: Next item. Please.]] We are now at the serial number B44, which is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Health to the National Programme of HIV Solutions, it is Petr Venhoda and it is a sum of CZK 20 million. We have three variations here. The first option is against the General Treasury Administration, contributions to the EU budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u270	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 199. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 199. Of the present 194 for 61, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u271	The second option is again from the General Treasury Administration, reducing expenditure on financing EU programmes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u272	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've initiated a vote of 200. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting number 200, 194 present, 78 in favour, 90 against. The motion was not accepted. Third option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u273	The third option is against the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from active employment policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u274	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 201. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 201. Present 194, for 74, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u275	The next proposal is B45. They're two options again. The first option, it is for the national grant title Family and it is the sum of 50 million crowns of my colleague Venhoda and it is within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u276	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 202. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 202, 194 in attendance, 84 in favour, 79 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u277	The second option is essentially the same thing, but the amount is 20 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u278	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 203. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 203, 194 present, 86 pros, 71 contra. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u279	The next proposal is B46 by Mrs Věra Kovářová and MP STAN. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by CZK 5,475,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u280	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 204. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 204, 194 present, 60 pros, 92 pros. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u281	The next proposal is B47, once again a colleague of Mr Kovářová and Mr STAN. This is an increase in the chapter of the General Treasury Administration, namely support for the development of the reconstruction of municipal infrastructure. $300 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u282	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 205. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 205, present 194, 66 pros, 95 pros. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u283	The next proposal is B48, again Mrs Kovářová and MP STAN and it is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development by CZK 300 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u284	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 206. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 206. Of the present 194 for 64, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u285	The next proposal is B49 by Mrs Kovářová and Mr STAN. This is an increase in the chapter General Treasury Administration, support for the development of reconstruction, material technical base of regional education, 300 million. [[Municipal]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u286	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 207. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 207, 194 present, 66 pro, 90 contra. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u287	The next proposal is the B50 by Mrs Věra Kovářová and the MP's club STAN. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for the development of teaching capacities of kindergarten and primary schools, CZK 300 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u288	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 208. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting 208, 192 in attendance, 66 in favour, 89 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u289	The next proposal is B51, it is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by 4 billion. Kroner, Mrs Kovářová and Membership Club STAN.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u290	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 209. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 209 of the present 193 66 pro, 87 v. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u291	The next proposal is B52 by Mrs Kovářová and Mr STAN. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development by a total amount of 300 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u292	Yes, an opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 210. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 210 of the present 194 for 65, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u293	The next proposal is B53 by Mrs Kovářová and MP STAN - an increase of 239 million in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u294	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 211. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 211 194 present, 65 pro, 90 con. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u295	The next proposal is B54 - again, Mrs Kovářová and MP STAN. There's an increase in the Ministry of Culture chapter by 46 million. and 38 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u296	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 212. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 212 194 present, 63 pro, 86 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u297	The next proposal is B55. The translator Věra Kovářová, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, František Kopřiva and the MP's club STAN and it is a transfer within the chapter of the general treasury administration of 3 million. 150 thousand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u298	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 213. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 213 192 present, 68 pro, 107 contra. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u299	The next proposal is B56 by Mrs Kovářová. This is an increase in the chapter of the General Treasury by a sum of 73 thousand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u300	Yes, an opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 214. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 214 193 present, for 61, against 108. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u301	The next proposal is B57 by Mrs Kovářová and Mr STAN. These are transfers within a chapter of the Ministry of Transport of the amount of 3 million. 596 thousand. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u302	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 215. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 215 of 193 present, for 62, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u303	The next proposal is B58 by colleague Ondřej Polanský. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by an amount of CZK 5 996 176 540.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u304	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting 216. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 216 194 present, 25 pro, 95 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u305	The next proposal is B59, once again, to Mr Ondřej Polanský. These are transfers in a chapter of the Ministry of Transport amounting to 2 billion. 500 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u306	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started the vote 217. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 217 194 present, for 52, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u307	The next proposal is the proposal of Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura's B60 colleague. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by an amount of 2.6 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u308	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 218. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 218 194 present, 72 pros, 95 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u309	The next proposal is B61 by colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by the amount of 4.3 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u310	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 219. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 219 194 present, for 31, against 103. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u311	The next proposal is B62 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. It is once again a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by the amount of 3.4 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u312	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 220. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 220 194 present, 49 pro, 97 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u313	The next proposal is B63 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by the amount of 1.9 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u314	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 221. I said, who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 221 194 present, 55 pro, 98 a. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u315	The next proposal is B64 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by 5.5 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u316	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 222. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 222 present 194, for 62, against 101. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u317	The next proposal is the proposal by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr. B65. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by an amount of 500 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u318	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting 223. Who is it? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 223 194 present, 45 pros, 115 cons. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u319	The next proposal is B66. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u320	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I started voting 224. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 224 of the present 194 for 58, against 103. The motion was also rejected. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u321	The next proposal is B67 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture by an amount of 4 billion. 850 miles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u322	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 225. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 225 of the present 194 for 50, against 108. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u323	The next proposal is the B68 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the Ministry of Agriculture chapter of 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u324	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 226. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 226 of the present 194 for 31, against 111. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u325	The next proposal is B69 by colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment by an amount of 600 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u326	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 227. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 227 of the present 194 for 34, against 118. This proposal was rejected. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u327	The next proposal is the B70 of my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by an amount of 1.1 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u328	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] I've started voting 228 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 228 of the present 194 for 47, against 109. The motion was not accepted. I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u329	We can continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u330	So we can continue. It will be under the rank number B71 of my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction of a chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development of 2,9 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u331	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 229, registered 194 Members, for 20, against 112. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u332	The next proposal is the B72 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development by an amount of 200 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u333	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 230, registered 194, for 61, versus 97. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u334	The next proposal is B73 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by 5,8 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u335	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 231, registered 194 Members, for 72, against 99. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u336	Now we should vote on Amendment B75, if I am not mistaken, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. It's a 150-mile reduction in the government's budget reserve. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u337	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Can we begin the vote? Yes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 232, registered 194 Members, for 47, against 95. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u338	Yes. I don't know how this could have happened to me, but I skipped B74, so if you don't mind, we will now vote on this amendment. He is again a colleague of Zbyněk Stanjura and it is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by an amount of 600 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u339	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 233, registered 194, for 61, against 95 Members. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u340	We would now vote on Amendment B76 by Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction under export aid item 500 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u341	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 234, registered 194 Members, for 59, against 94. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u342	We will vote on B77 by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in the chapter of the General Treasury by 1.5 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u343	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 235, registered 194, for 61, against 96 Members. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u344	Now we will vote on the B78 colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. This is a reduction in all chapters, employees' salaries by an amount of 7 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u345	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 236, registered 194, for 40, against 98 Members. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u346	We will vote on B79 by fellow Kytýr, Pavel Staněk and Pavel Juříček. This is an increase of 14 million by the National Cyber and Information Security Office. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u347	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 237, registered 194 Members, for 48, against 105. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u348	We will now vote on the B80 proposal by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by an amount of 800 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u349	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 238, 194 Members registered, for 74, against 78. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u350	The next proposal is B81 and again Mrs Lucie Šafránková. They are transfers in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for a total of 1 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u351	Madam Secretary? [[Dissenting position.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 239, registered 194, for 54, against 93 Members. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u352	The next amendment is Mr Radek Koten's B82. They are transfers within a chapter of the Ministry of the Interior of a total of 500 million. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u353	Madam Secretary? [[Dissenting position.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 240, registered 194 Members, for 60, against 98. The motion was not accepted. President Kalousek to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u354	Thank you very much. Mr President, please understand. On behalf of the Department of Hygiene, I would like to request a 10-minute break not only for a meeting of the TOP 09 Members' Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u355	Yes, I'm responding to this request, and I'm declaring a break until 9:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u356	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 21.20 hours, the time for a break has ended and we will continue to vote. Just to be safe, I am calling for Members who have not yet come to the Chamber to be really prepared for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Madam rapporteur, please move on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u357	The next amendment is B83 variant I, colleague Jan Farský. It is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, namely the Mountain Service, by an amount of 50 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u358	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 241, 193 Members registered, for 48, against 73. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u359	B83 variant II. It is once again an increase of 24 million, this time for the Ministry of Regional Development, the Mountain Service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u360	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 242, 194 Members registered, for 51, against 83. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u361	The next proposal is B84 by colleague Jan Farský and Věra Kovářová. It is an increase in the chapter of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes by an amount of 2 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u362	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Before I vote, Mr Feri to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u363	Thank you, I'm sorry. I voted in favour of 242, but I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u364	Thank you, for the record. And now we will vote on Amendment B84. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 243, 194 Members registered, for 40, against 85. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u365	The next proposal is the B85 by colleague Jan Čižinsky and it is an increase in the Security and Information Service chapter by an amount of 6.5 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u366	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 244, 194 Members registered, for 42, against 110. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u367	The next proposal is B86 by colleague Jan Čižinský and it is a transfer in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment of 40 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u368	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 245, 194 Members registered, for 41, against 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u369	The next proposal is Mr Martin Baxa's B87 and it is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 5.5 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u370	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 246 registered 193 Members, for 53, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u371	Another is the B88 colleague Martin Baxa, it is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture by an amount of 400 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u372	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 247, 194 Members registered, for 60, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u373	The next proposal is Mr. Martin Baxa's B89, an increase of 233 million in the Ministry of Culture chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u374	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote No. 248, 194 Members signed in, for 59, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u375	And now I'm a little lost, so now we've voted B...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u376	We voted B89, we should vote B90.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u377	Excellent, yes, so B90, the translator of Václav Klaus, and it is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development by an amount of CZK 44 623 219.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u378	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 249, 194 Members registered, for 38, against 125. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u379	The next proposal is B91 by colleague Václav Klaus and Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior by an amount of 1 586 683 202 crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u380	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 250 entered 194, for 42, against 111 Members. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u381	Next is Amendment B92 and they are transfers within the Ministry of Culture of CZK 19 286 225.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u382	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 251 registered 193 Members, for 24, against 128. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u383	The next proposal is Mr Václav Klaus's B93 and it is an increase of 250 million in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. and a government debt of 250 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u384	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 252 registered 194 Members, for 15, against 130. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u385	The next proposal is 94 Vít Rakušan and STAN's MP and it is an increase in the Ministry of Justice chapter by 9 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u386	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 253, 194 Members registered, for 53, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u387	The next proposal is B95. This is an increase again in the chapter of the Ministry of Justice by CZK 900 000. Speaker Vít Rakušan and MP STAN.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u388	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 254, registered 194 Members, for 60, against 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u389	The next proposal is Mr. Jaroslav Holík's B96 and it is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment by CZK 400 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u390	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 255, registered 194 Members, for 71, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u391	The next proposal is the B97 of Radek Zlesák, Antonín Staněk and so on. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by CZK 20 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u392	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 256, 194 Members registered, for 66, against 83. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u393	Another proposal is B98 by colleague Helena Langšádlová and it is an increase in the chapter Administration of State Material Reserves by CZK 600 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u394	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 257, 194 Members signed in, for 61, against 94. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u395	Now we have Amendment B99 again by Mrs Helena Langšádlová. So it goes against the government's budget reserve, but I'm gonna have it voted out. This is an increase in the chapter of the Office of the Government, namely adaptation with digital society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u396	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 258, registered 194 Members, for 60, against 97. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u397	B100 again to colleague Helena Langšádlová. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by 300 million. It goes against the government's budget reserve again, but I'll have it voted out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u398	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 259, registered 194 Members, for 43, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u399	The next one is B101 of my colleague Vlastimil Válek. This is an increase in the Ministry of Health chapter by an amount of 100 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u400	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 260, registered 194 Members, for 61, against 95. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u401	The next proposal is the B102 of Mr Vlastimil Válek. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by CZK 2 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u402	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 261, 194 Members registered, for 53, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u403	Order number B103 of colleague Vlastimil Válek. This is an increase in the installation of the permanent exhibition Slavské epopej at the castle Moravský Krumlov, the amount of CZK 15 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u404	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 262, registered 194 Members, for 58, against 89. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u405	Another proposal B104 Vlastimil Válek. This is an increase in the Ministry of Health chapter of CZK 100 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u406	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 263, registered 194 Members, for 62, against 95. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u407	Proposal B105 Vlastimil Válek. This is again an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Health again by CZK 100 million, this time at the expense of other items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u408	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 264, registered by 194 Members, in favour of 62, versus 113. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u409	Proposal B106 by Mr. Vlastimil Válek. This is an increase of the Czech municipality of Sokol by the amount of 16 300 000 on the part of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u410	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 265, registered by 194 Members, for 62, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u411	The next proposal is the B107 of Mr Vlastimil Válek. It is again the český village of Sokol, an amount of 16 300 thousand this time on the mark of other items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u412	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 266, registered 194 Members, for 65, against 110. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u413	The next proposal is Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Jan Skopeček's B108. It is an increase in the chapter Administration of State Material Reserves by the amount of CZK 600 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u414	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 267, registered 194 Members, for 80, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u415	The next proposal is B109 Vojtěch Munzar and Martin Kupka. This is an increase in the Ministry of the Interior chapter by 500 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u416	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 268, 194 Members registered, for 65, against 96. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u417	The next proposal is Mr Vojtěch Munzar's B110. These are transfers in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment amounting to CZK 10 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u418	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 269, registered 194 Members, for 37, against 101. [[There's 102 on the board.]] The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u419	The next proposal is Mr. Jan Bauer and Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. These are transfers in a chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of 1 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u420	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 270, 194 Members registered, for 60, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u421	Another proposal is Mr Jan Hrnčíř's B112 and it is a transfer within the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of 2 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u422	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 271, registered 194 Members, for 28, against 143. [[on board 27]] The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u423	The next proposal is B113 Jan Hrnčíř. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by an amount of 5 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u424	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 272, 194 Members applied for, 49, versus 99. [[on board 98]] The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u425	The next proposal is B114 by colleague Jan Zahradník. These are transfers in a chapter of the Ministry of Environment of 10 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u426	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 273, registered 194 Members, for 48, against 107. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u427	Proposal B115 by Mr Zahradník - moving again within the framework of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, again an amount of 10 million. CZK, this time as compensation for losses of municipalities in the territory of national parks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u428	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 274, registered 194 Members, for 61, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u429	B116, Jan Skopeček. This is a reduction in export aid subsidies of 400 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u430	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 275, registered 194 Members, for 81, versus 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u431	The next proposal is B117, Jan Skopeček and it is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by an amount of 5.5 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u432	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 276, 194 Members signed in, for 60, versus 98. [[on board 96]] The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u433	The next proposal is B118, Jan Skopeček and this is an increase in the state debt chapter by CZK 1,282 189 260.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u434	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 277, registered 194 Members, for 62, versus 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u435	It is also the design of B119, Jan Skopeček. This is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by an amount of 400 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u436	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 278, 194 Members registered, for 61, against 99. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u437	The next proposal is the B120 by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 5.5 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u438	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 279, registered 194 Members, in favour of 62, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u439	Furthermore, we are with Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová's proposal B121. This is an increase in the chapters of the Municipality of Legionary and Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes in the total amount of 6 300 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u440	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 280, registered 194 Members, for 64, against 109. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u441	The next proposal is Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová's B122. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 1,800 thousand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u442	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 281, registered 194 Members, in favour of 62, versus 111. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u443	It is also the proposal by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová B123 and it is an increase in the Ministry of Health chapter by an amount of 30 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u444	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 282, 194 Members registered, for 61, against 97. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u445	The next proposal is Mrs Markéta Adamová's B124. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by a total amount of 3 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u446	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 283, registered 194 Members, for 40, against 99. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u447	The next proposal is B125 Marek Výborný. This is an increase in the Ministry of Justice chapter by an amount of 100 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u448	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 284, registered 194 Members, in favour of 62, against 94. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u449	The next proposal is B126, again colleague Marek Výborný. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 5 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u450	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 285, registered 194 Members, for 61, against 108. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u451	The next proposal is Mr. Jiří Mihola's B127. It is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by a sum of 3 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u452	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 286, 192 Members registered, for 63, against 86. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u453	Another proposal is B128 - Jiří Mihola, once again an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 2 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u454	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote, the serial number 287 is 191 Members, for 62, against 86. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u455	The next proposal is B129 - Jiří Mihola, an increase of 500 million in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u456	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 288 registered 192 Members, for 62, against 88. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u457	The next proposal is B130 - Jiří Mihola. They are transfers within a chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of a total amount of 50 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u458	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 289 registered 194 Members, for 57, against 96. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u459	It is also B131 - Jiří Mihola, they are transfers within the chapter of the Ministry of Culture for a total amount of 100 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u460	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 290 registered 194 Members, for 39, against 111. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u461	It is also B132 - Jiří Mihola, increasing the Academy of Sciences - 100 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u462	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 291 registered 194 Members, for 61, against 96. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u463	It is also B133 of Mr Pavel Plzák's colleague. These are transfers in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture of a total amount of 400 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u464	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 292 registered 194 Members, for 35, against 132. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u465	The next proposal is B134 Lubomír Španěl and Monika Jarošová. This is an increase in the Ministry of the Interior chapter by an amount of 10 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u466	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 293 registered 194 Members, for 17, against 138. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u467	The next proposal is B135 by Lukáš Kolářík. This is an increase in funds to the chapter of the National Cyber and Information Security Office by an amount of 80 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u468	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 294 registered by 194 Members, for 64, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u469	I just wanted to say for the tape screen that, in the vote 293, in the previous one, I voted in favour, but I'm on drugs, and I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u470	Yes, thank you. We're good to go. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. Is that okay? The vote is still on. We can continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u471	We have Mr Marek Novák and Mr Monika Jarošová's proposal B136. They are transfers within the Ministry of the Interior of a total of 20,360 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u472	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 295 registered 186 Members, for 119, against 25. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u473	The next proposal is B137 Lenka Kozlová. These are transfers in a chapter of the Ministry of Culture of 61,800 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u474	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 296 entered 188, for 35, against 100 Members. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u475	We are now at B138, Mrs Lenka Kozlová, again moving in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture of 35 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u476	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 297 registered 188 Members, for 36, against 102. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u477	It is also B139, Mrs Lenka Kozlová - transfers in chapter 51 million of the Ministry of Culture. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u478	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? 188 Members registered in the vote in order number 298, for 35, against 99. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u479	We are now on the proposal B140 - Lenka Kozlová. Again moving in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, this time the amount of 50 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u480	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 299 registered 188 Members, for 36, against 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u481	Proposal B141 - Lenka Kozlová, Pavla Golasowská, Zbyněk Stanjura. This is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture by 5 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u482	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The vote is serial number 300. Registered 188 Members, for 61, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u483	The next proposal is B142 - Pavla Golasowská and Vít Kaňkovský. It is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - an amount of 1 billion. 439 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u484	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the voting order number 301, 188 Members registered, for 38, against 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u485	Proposal B143 - Jan Bartošek. This is an increase to drug policy of 30 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u486	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 302, 188 Members registered, for 77, against 91. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u487	B144 - Jan Bartošek - an increase in the chapter of the National Security Authority 8 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u488	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 303, 188 Members signed in for 60, versus 86. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u489	The next proposal is B145 - Jan Bartošek - an increase in the chapter of the National Cyber and Information Security Office by an amount of 41 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u490	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 304, 189 Members signed in, for 64, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u491	Proposal B146 - Jan Bartošek - increase of chapter National Office for Cyber and Information Security 12 517 428 CZK.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u492	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 305, 189 Members signed in for 63, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u493	We are at the design B147 - Martin Kupka. This is an increase in the chapters of the Ministry of Education and Youth by 300 million. and General Treasury Administration support for the development and restoration of the municipal material base 200 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u494	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 306, 189 Members registered, for 75, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u495	Proposal B148 - Marian Jurečka. This is an increase to land adjustments - an amount of 500 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u496	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 307, 189 Members registered, for 61, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u497	Proposal B149 - Marian Jurečka. This is an increase in the Ministry of Agriculture chapter by 4 billion. - bark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u498	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 308, 190 Members signed in for 62, versus 87. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u499	Another proposal is B150 by Lukáš Bartoň - an increase of 5 billion in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u500	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 309, registered by 189 Members, for 78, against 89. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u501	The next proposal is B151 to Lukáš Bartoň. It's an increase in the Ministry of Education by 3 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u502	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 310, 190 Members registered, for 74, against 87. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u503	Proposal B152 by Lukáš Bartoň - once again increased in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 320 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u504	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 311, 191 Members registered, for 79, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u505	Another proposal is B153 - authors Jakub Janda, Jana Černochová, Pavel žáček, Vojtěch Munzar. These are transfers in the General Treasury for a total amount of 6,300,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u506	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 312, Members of Parliament registered 188, for 65, against 84. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u507	B154 - Jakub Janda - an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by a sum of 2 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u508	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 313, 191 Members registered, for 47, against 113. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u509	B155 - Petr Bendl. It is an increase in the Ministry of Agriculture chapter in total of 1 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u510	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 314, 191 Members signed in for 47, against 101. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u511	Amendment B156 - Petr Bendl, Jan Bauer, Vojtěch Munzar. It is an increase in the chapter of the Czech office of survey and cadastral by the amount of 640 mil. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u512	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 315, registered by 191 Members, for 47, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u513	Amendment B157 - Miloslava Vostrá - within the chapter of the Ministry of Culture 15 million. to digitize the archive of the CTK.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u514	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 316, 190 Members signed in, for 145, against 11. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u515	The next proposal is B158 - Miloslava Vostrá - transfers within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to social services - an amount of 160 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u516	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 317, registered by 191 Members, for 160, versus 24. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u517	The next proposal is B159, colleague Roman Onderka - transfers within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, 60 million for the legal protection of children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u518	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 318, registered by 191 Members, for 180, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u519	Amendment B160 to Mr Petr Dolínek. This is an increase of 250 million for the reconstruction of the sports complex Gymnasium Unity Sokol Praha, Králové Vinohrady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u520	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 319, 190 Members registered, for 40, against 91. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u521	In my view, Mr President, we have dealt with all the amendments, as they were said at second reading, and we should vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u522	Yes, we actually voted on all the proposals and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 and with the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, according to the House Print 605, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies according to the annex to this resolution." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 320, registered by 191 Members, in favour of 108, against 82. [[A round of applause from the left and center of the Chamber.]] I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. We still have our accompanying resolutions. Before I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to them, I will hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u523	Have a nice late night. So I will ask the rapporteur to put forward proposals for accompanying resolutions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u524	Yes, we will start with accompanying resolutions, as was said on the various committees which adopted the resolution. Firstly, it is a proposal from the Economic Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to make revenue from the sale of the strategic stocks of the Government's tangible reserves earmarked for the future renewal of strategic stocks and requirements for the Government's tangible reserves. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u525	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 321, 191 Members registered, for 85, against 77. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u526	The Defence Committee's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that, as part of the ongoing discussion of the draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, it removes the pay gap between employees of the National Security Office and members of security forces and civil servants.' [[According to Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members]] [[According to Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u527	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 322, 191 Members signed in for 82, versus 69. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u528	Proposal for a Security Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government take into account the specific status of staff of the National Bureau of Cyber and Information Security in the labour market and remove the differences in remuneration between the staff of the National Bureau of Cyber and Information Security and members of security forces and civil servants, maintain the increase in salaries and the ongoing personnel strengthening of the Office." [[pursuant to Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended]] [[pursuant to Law No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u529	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 323, 192 Members signed in for 83 against 72. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u530	It is also a proposal from the Election Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies draws the attention of the Government to the need to implement Directive 2010/13/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain laws of the Member States governing the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council, including the financial conditions for its implementation by increasing the RRTV budget of up to CZK 10,000 to the necessary operating and personnel expenditure."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u531	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 324, 192 Members registered, for 81, versus 57. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u532	The Foreign Committee's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that it take into account the specifics of the occupations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's staff and its constituent components in the labour market and ensure a corresponding increase in salaries.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u533	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 325, 192 Members signed in for 62, versus 80. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u534	We are now coming to the accompanying resolutions that were made in the second reading of the debate. And we would start with Mr. Kováčik. The proposal reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to further strengthen budget chapter 329 during 2020 The Ministry of Agriculture for the purpose of financing measures implemented in the context of climate change.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u535	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 326, 192 Members registered, in favour of 108, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u536	Now we have the motion for a resolution by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. I'm just gonna see if I'm gonna let a) vote separately and b) vote separately. Yes, so: (a) "The Chamber of Deputies, knowing that the capital of Prague, the city of Mariánské Lázně, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the Supreme Audit Office publish their budgeted and actual expenditure on the Internet in a more detailed view than required by Decree No. 323/2002 Coll., on budgetary composition, calls on the Government to initiate the development of a user-friendly system that will allow the publication of budgeted and actual revenue and expenditure of the state budget on the Internet in the format of open data and by 20 November 2020 the Chamber of Deputies will become acquainted with the results it has made on this matter."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u537	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 327: 190 Members registered, for 77, against 76. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u538	Another is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Office of the President of the Republic not to serve as a source of fundraising, the election campaign of the current president. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u539	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 328. Registered 191 Members, for 56, against 80. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u540	The last is Mr Luzar's proposal, and the proposal reads: "The Chamber of Deputies strongly points out to the Government that, in Chapter 374 of the Administration of State Material Reserves, it is possible to start the sale of state tangible reserves, thereby implementing the planned revenue of CZK 600 million only when all the obligations laid down in the applicable legislation are fulfilled, in particular as regards the adjustment and approval of the crisis plans of the central government authorities concerned, the approval of the sale of the state tangible reserves in question by the Security Council of the State and subsequently by the Government."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u541	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 329. Registered 190 Members, for 107, against 14. The motion for a resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u542	We have thus dealt with all the proposals for accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-04-ps2017-039-06-003-196.u543	And I'm done discussing this point. [[Noise in the hall.]] We will proceed to discuss the next point and this is
