ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u1	27. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 502/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, to whom I give this word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to state the government's proposal for an amendment to Act No 110/1997. Sb., on food and tobacco products. The proposed amendment adapts the regulation of the European Union on official controls introducing new rules on official controls, inter alia. and food. [[9.40 hours]] In addition to the adaptation of that Regulation, the aim of the proposal is to prohibit the placing on the market of dual-quality food, i.e. foods which appear to be identical to a food placed on the market in another Member State of the European Union, although the food marketed in the Czech Republic has differentiated composition or characteristics. In addition, the specification and addition of the conditions for the designation of Czech food and the setting of the conditions for the voluntary designation of the manufacturer. Determination of the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture for accepting applications from food business operators and determining whether food is a novel food type. Determination of a State agricultural and food inspection by the national data storage manager in connection with the provision of mandatory traceability of tobacco products. Following the Government's resolution of 17 October 2018, number 671 of the designation of the State price printer, state enterprise, the sole publisher of the identifiers for tobacco products. Part of the bill is the amendment to the Act on State Agricultural and Food Inspection, which responds to the need to adapt the European Union regulation on official controls, the requirements of control practice and increasing interest in the purchase of food via the Internet. The draft law also includes an amendment on banks to enable the State Agricultural and Food Inspection to obtain from the bank the necessary information to identify the controlled or obliged person. In the light of the above, and in particular the time limit laid down for the adaptation of amendments to the regulation on official controls, I would also like to ask you, at the same time, for a short hearing in the committees for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Kováčik. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. I'd like some peace in the courtroom. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Let me briefly introduce you to the news report on the bill that Minister Toman introduced here. The necessity of the proposed legislation is to eliminate the current irregularities and problems that have come, as life has brought them, virtually. how they are brought about by amendments to the regulations of European institutions. And so, for example, the introduction of Act No. 110/1997 Coll., this is the law on food and tobacco products, in line with the new European legislation on official controls and those provisions which were not contained in the old regulation on official controls. The adaptation of the regulation will consist of setting out new requirements and obligations of the Ministry of Agriculture and adjusting existing ones relating to information obligations to the European Commission and, where appropriate, to other Member States. The proposal will make the coordination of supervisory activity and cooperation with the European Commission more effective, as well as to address the issue of sampling during official control. The financing of official controls will be further adjusted. The amendment lays down rules on measures and penalties in the event of infringements of Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The amendment will also provide the necessary modification of the terminology used. In the field of tobacco products, Act No. 110/1997 Coll. by supplementing the partial provisions necessary in connection with the adoption of new secondary legislation, in particular the authorisation of the competent authorities, and by supplementing and adapting the provisions relating to electronic cigarettes and the replacement filling in them. Furthermore, there will be an adjustment of the competences between the supervisory authorities for the control of food from insects, the efficiency of food control practices and the refinement of the provisions on electronic cigarettes and the replacement filling in them. In Law No 146/2002 Sb. a framework for the powers of the supervisory authority and the authorisation of inspectors will be adapted, which will contribute to the effectiveness of official control. The implementation of the proper adaptation will be provided by Act No. 146/2002 Sb. comply with Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is necessary for the proper performance of the control activity. It will respond to knowledge from the application practice, which will also contribute to making the official control more effective and to strengthening legal certainty for both the controlled persons and the controllers. The draft legislation is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, it is compatible with the rules of the European Union, the case law of the judicial authorities of the European Union and the general legal principles of European Union law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debates in which I have two Members - Mr Radek Holomčík and Mr Petr Bendl so far. Before I give you my word, I'll read the apologies. Mr František Vácha apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 13.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Minister Benešová today for the whole day for work reasons, Mr František Navrkal from 9.20 for personal reasons and Mrs Monika Jarošová today from 9 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the press presented contains a few provisions, I will not at all deal with those who are engaged in the implementation of European law, and I would just like to say something here briefly about the part which concerns the so-called double quality of food. In fact, I have to say that the idea of how to solve this problem has surprised me by the Ministry of Agriculture, because when you think about the construction in detail, we're actually not just saying that we don't want there to be less quality food that looks like better food to the west of us, but we're actually saying that we don't want food to be delivered to the east or to the newer countries of the European Union, which will be less quality than those of us, but will look the same. I don't know to what extent it was intended. If this aspect has been on the table since the beginning, then I must appreciate solidarity with some states probably east of us. Anyway, there are a few issues that I will certainly want to discuss in some way when I discuss the subcommittees, I will want to discuss them, and we will probably also propose some amendments, because even if we were assured on the round table that Mr Bendl, the director of the food inspection, has organized, that this will not affect small stores where it is difficult to judge, or whose staff probably do not have the capacity to assess whether it happens to be the lancholy or, perhaps, some sausage product that they sell, is not sold west of us in the same packaging with some better composition. Because we think that, like now, after these steps over the last, say, six years, the rural service is in pretty bad shape, and certainly any further deterioration and further addition of barriers to business to small businesses in small villages and villages would certainly not help the situation, rather that country would still be devastated. So this is a thing that we're just going to want to sort out in committee and here in plenary in some way, so we can really make sure that this doesn't go negatively against small rural stores. At the same time, we will want to make sure that the goods of so-called double quality or lower quality after being identified will be withdrawn and used for humanitarian purposes through food banks. Because that food will be labeled as falling under the category of unfair double-quality practices, but that doesn't mean it's defective. This does not mean that health would be dangerous, that there would necessarily be toxins in it. So it would certainly be a great shame if we supported some trend of food waste. And one last thing. Here I would like to appreciate what he said to me last week, I think, the Minister, or maybe it was this week, I don't know, that actually the very formulation of what is double food quality means seemingly similar goods with different properties or compositions, so there will still be some redefining during the discussion, so that it would be somehow clearer and at the same time it was possible to respond objectively to some specifics of different markets. I'd like to appreciate this. I confess that the first reaction we had to do this was to propose a re-evaluation, because it all comes down to what I said here as a rather complex structure, but I will not propose it, and we will be more careful about this in committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u7	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Petr Bendl. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, allow me to say a few words about this material, where, unlike the Water Act, which I believe we have to discuss, given what is going on with water in the Czech Republic, you have rejected it, but instead you consider it crucial to discuss the Food Act, which, among other things, is perhaps the most visible, the solution of double quality today, with reference to what is happening at European Commission level or the European Union, if you wish. The last four years have been strongly accentuated and the subject of the dual quality of food has been bowed down. Those who are interested in this issue know well that what the European Commission has written is quite much criticised by the European Parliament and individual Members of the European Parliament, because the text of the directive, which has been approved in the European Union within the framework of the so-called 'European Union'. the consumer package on the issue of dual quality, does not specify in particular the term'significant diversity' and it is clear that the rules of the dual quality game will change at European Union level, which means that very soon I expect another requirement to be made to modify our laws by any legislative change. We were dealing with a seminar or a round table of double quality before we started reading first, and the debate was rather extensive. Double quality is not only about defining the double quality of food in the future, but also not about food. This I think may be even more difficult for the Czech Republic in the spirit of what my previous speaker has indicated here, because the dual quality is not only about imports but also about our production and exports, and not just about food but also about other products. What is actually the main question in assessing double quality is who is responsible. Who is responsible for the fact that the dual quality arises, that there are products equally marked here, but inside the packaged food, or inside the packaging is a food that shows other parameters of the content. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Who's to blame? The Government's bill says that not the manufacturer, but the seller, must be punished for this. Our government bill. For the designers of this bill say that it is necessary to punish those who sell double quality. The arguments of those who sell, if you want chains, are the most visible, but the law doesn't distinguish whether they're big deals or small, even if we're state officials...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u9	I understand. I will ask the Members in the front benches to stop disturbing them if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u10	It's really complicated here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u11	Then it's very hard to say something. Thank you so much for being considerate of the speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u12	Our proposal doesn't distinguish whether we're going to prosecute a small or a large one, that's what the previous speaker said. The government bill says all vendors need to be prosecuted. The representatives of the State's agricultural and food inspection assured us that they did not see it that they would not prosecute the small ones and only the large ones, and I must point out that if there was a question about what the rules and criteria for assessing the double quality would be, whether they would be public and whether they would be published now, there was no clear answer to that. It was stated when the law was passed, then we'll sort out the criteria. But I think that it is necessary for those criteria to be known and for it to also be publicly known how it will be approached. But on top of that, the manufacturer versus the seller. The seller simply on principle, and I hope you will recognise that, cannot fully monitor what the manufacturer will produce, what he will pack into his product, and has no chance to trace everything that is happening in the food market throughout the European Union. It was suggested - and I think it is okay again because I consider food management and quality control in the Czech Republic to be very good, I think that we are doing very well compared to other countries of the European Union and in the world. We have tried a number of problematic food situations, especially in communication with Polák in the past. I have personally experienced this, and I have to say that the work of both veterinarians and State Agricultural and Food Inspections with their colleagues within the European Union has been at a high level, which is why I rather think that we should focus not on salesmen, but on producers. To capture, therefore, if it is quite clear, and he is still not, the term what it is, a "significant difference" because it is clear that at European Union level in individual countries, different food quality legislation has a reference to the fact that they cannot completely reflect the fact that individual national legislation regulates the quality of food differently. That is why I think it would be better to wait than to approve such a law at the moment, because there will definitely be changes, and at the same time I am convinced that we should concentrate on manufacturers, so that they do not cheat consumers, so that they do not cheat customers, not sellers. The fact that "we're not going to control the little ones, we're just going to control the big ones" comes out of the mouth of the food inspection, and it's weird that we don't really have any distinction in the law. There was an argument: after all, the seller can treat the supplier of the packaged food by contract, that he can treat the fine by contract, that if a food vendor in the Czech Republic is convicted of a state agricultural and food inspection for sanctions, then the sanctions can treat them by contract and can ultimately pay the fine by the manufacturer who supplied the food of double quality. The problem is, however, that it is not, how to find out properly what the penalty granted by the Food Inspection is part of the fine for possibly double quality and what part of the fine for dirty toilets or anything else that the Food Inspection will find out, because in the decision that the Food Inspection is making, the decisions on sanctions are the amounts accumulated and it is not apparent from how large the penalty applies to which findings are made within the food business. [[10.00 hours]] That's why this argument is basically impossible to solve. Food inspection refers to the fact that legislation does not allow these things to be separated. At the same time, they say that the sanctions would definitely have to be greater, and therefore they must use the so-called sanctions. absorption, i.e. Accumulation of the fine up to one amount. However, in the dispute of the manufacturer - the seller can't solve it. We'd probably have to change the rules of procedure, too, and I don't know if the House would be willing to do something like that. I would ask the Ministry of Agriculture or the petitioners very much whether they would really consider focusing more on producers of double quality than on their vendors. And if the seller is also a producer or producer, then of course it will also concern him. But I consider it wrong to concentrate and fine and sanction sellers who do not have a chance to know what manufacturers within the European Union may produce, and this can be qualified as a double-quality food. Let me get this straight. It's quite obvious, or it's not quite clear that we're hitting it right. I think that this could lead to the fact that, in principle, some of the food will not be on the Czech market at all, thereby losing Czech customers. At the same time, there are no clear criteria by which double quality will be assessed. It is also unclear, and after all, the previous speaker Holomčík here said how it is with food handling in the event of a sanction. The law doesn't make any adjustments. What will be done with the food that the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority will identify as a dual-quality food during the inspection. Maybe the Minister will have an answer for that. In the framework of the sanction decision, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority may decide to withdraw the food. It depends on whether the double-quality finding will be as true as it has been, that in terms of health-free food, it may have a "only" bad label, it is not well labeled, but it will be a food as good as it is, whether it will be passed on to food banks or not. And it is also unclear who and how will possibly compensate traders for any damage caused by the manufacturer if we concentrate on sanctioning the seller and not the manufacturer. So much for me at this moment on this bill. And I look forward to a possible reaction from the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Before I give the floor to another registered Member, Mrs Richterová, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Krutáková all day for work reasons today and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová between 9 and 10 o'clock for health reasons. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government present, dear colleagues, I would like to report that this law of practice has shown that one small point of change would be needed. The point is that this law also regulates the functioning of food banks, and who food from food banks can actually be provided to. I know that most of you who are engaged in the Food and Tobacco Products Act are simply engaged in other aspects of this legislative standard. My colleague Radek Holomčík and I are communicating with the Ministry of Agriculture to find a consensus on two things. One is easy: It is simply that today it is defined in this law that consumers of those free foods that are still safe, but otherwise if they were not in the food bank would be destroyed, so they can help that the client of social services must be the consumer of these foods. So one objective of the amendment will certainly be to remove this unnecessary obligation to sign a contract, to become a registered client of social services, because these foods often need to be given to people who do not need any more help. It is purely about getting to the needy, having to be provided free of charge, there is a very sophisticated system of food banks, but there is no need for these people to be registered clients of social services. So on this, I believe, there will be a complete consensus that it is a thing that practice has shown that it is a unnecessary barrier to be able to give the really needed person who does not need to register as a client of social services, because nothing else needs the food, the possible help. Unfortunately, it's sad, but such clients are lonely seniors. The second thing I know is that it's going to be a little more debatable, and that's why I'm saying it this way so that we can make the second reading of the debate that it's actually defined today that the kind of organizations that can handle food from food banks are organizations. humanitarian or charitable. But they're also publicly beneficial organizations. Here's the point: in the end, the specific organisations that have the permit are determined by the Ministry of Agriculture. It's in the department's mind. And I would just like to talk about whether it would be useful to talk about whether, instead of defining humanitarianism, the definition of charity should not be a public utility. So that it can be provided by publicly beneficial legal entities. Again, the final decision would still be at the Ministry, but there would be a slightly wider range of organizations that could provide this assistance, they could ask to be included in the intermediate network. Well, that's short for me, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u15	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u16	Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity, because, of course, I care about the absence of double food quality in the Czech Republic, and I would like to appreciate the Minister of Agriculture's start of this ban, and thanks to this amendment that we are discussing, it will apply substantially sooner than within the two-year transposition period of the European Directive. Thanks again, I can put a little emotion into it, of course it matters to me as a mommy, so once again - thank you, Minister! This law is therefore especially important for me, but also for all citizens and citizens in the Czech Republic in terms of combating double food quality. And I believe, honourable Chamber of Deputies, that our aim is to bring fair treatment to consumers. Guarantee them that they will be able to choose products of the same composition or characteristics that are sold west of our borders. I also appreciate the professionalism of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and I believe that this is the right institution to guarantee this. So thanks again and, of course, I call on the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this amendment as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u17	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. This has been the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking the final words - Minister? Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u18	So one more good day, Mr President, Madam Members, just a few words. First of all, I want to thank you for the debate that's been going on here. And I think that we can solve a lot of things in the course of committee discussions and before the second reading, just let us comment briefly, very short. As far as Mr Holomčík's colleague is concerned, we are progressing, or the State Agricultural and Food Inspection is proceeding according to the risk analysis. Of course, in practice the methodological guidelines have proved useful, in this case we will do the same. So I'm sure you do, and that methodical instruction before it goes to second reading will also be submitted to the relevant committees. What my colleague Bendl said. I don't think water is more important than food. I think our goal is to protect consumers. And this law has the task of protecting consumers from the import of poor quality food. And there's one thing. Please, double quality does not concern Czech producers. It mostly concerns global producers. That's what we need to stress here, so we don't get it wrong. Czech producers do not have this problem. As far as sanctions are concerned, as has been said here, please nicely, the law states that the person responsible for placing it on the market for food quality is responsible. Of course we're also checking the manufacturers. But that needs to be emphasized here. And European legislation also says that every food business operator is responsible, which is also the trader. And again, we protect consumers, the trader puts them on the market. As far as methodology is concerned, as he said, yes. As far as the manufacturer, the seller, etc. are concerned, I do not think that was seriously meant by the Member. We're clearly monitoring those parameters. There is a principle of traceability and marketing. Please, this could really cause a big problem. I'm ready to discuss this on the committee and outside the committee. As far as it's concerned, it's a transposition period, or it's been said here that it's an early hearing. Please, it's not. There's a transposition, and we just want the transparent debate to go well so we don't do it on short notice, so there's no way it's premature. As regards the granting of fines. Dear Member, I am very pleased that you have quoted the statement of the Union of Trade and Tourism, which is clearly written to avoid liability, and let the supplier have it completely. But I mean, we have to find a way between them and we have to follow the legislation. We want to focus on all those who abuse this double quality, and these are both manufacturers and traders. Please, let's not say who did more or less. And I think we can work out how this is gonna go. As for Mrs Richterová, I want to thank her for that. I say both of these amendments, yes, that I will be very happy to discuss it, just to adjust it legislatively so that it does not cause any problem, because the assistance to the socially necessary is our objective, and as you know, the Ministry of Agriculture is actively supporting it with a subsidy title. And the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture is the only resort that supports it, directly the food bank, financially every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u19	I thank Mr. Miroslav Toman, Minister of Agriculture, for the final word. The rapporteur is also preparing to take the final floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The double quality of food is not only the problem of Eastern Europe or the Czech Republic, as the comment on solidarity has also been made here, but it is a very serious problem for the whole of Europe or the whole of the European Union. We know that the debates are under way within the European Parliament and that European institutions are not yet able, or perhaps even willing, to find a common ground in some cases, a solution to this fundamental problem. As long as they continue to do so, until the single European legislation - affecting me, not only the regulation, affects the double quality of food as a practice that is unfair, unacceptable, which is fraudulent, which deceives consumers who deceive consumers, we need to regulate the issue at national level by national legislation, and that is what is happening right now. I thank the Ministry of Agriculture for coming up with this standard, at least as far as double food quality is concerned, right now, and I ask that we pay at least the same attention as at first reading in the next discussion. Four Members and Members attended the debate at first reading, and I did not notice either the motion for rejection or the return for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u21	Yes, thank you, that's right. In the debate, it was merely said that the time limit for discussion would be respected by the Minister of Agriculture for an extension of 20 days, if I had noted this correctly. [[From the newsstand's table of dissent.]] No? In that case, we can continue by deciding on the commandments of the committees. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the 349 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the commandment to the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 349, 166 for 139, against no one present. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but I see Mrs Adámková's application. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen... [[It's being silenced for the noise in the room. The President is begging for peace.]] I think that food quality is important for complications of possible allergic - as another committee is the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u23	Thank you. Okay. Is there another proposal for another committee? It's not like that. We will therefore decide on another proposal for the commandment, namely the Committee on Health. We will decide in the 350 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the Health Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 350 of 168 present for 133, against 1. The motion was accepted. We can therefore conclude that the Health Committee has been ordered as another committee. If, as the rapporteur has informed, the deadline for the discussion has not fallen, the deadline for the discussion of this press remains legal, i.e. 60 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 27. Mr Marek Benda, now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u24	Mr Vice-President, I am so sorry to interrupt the House, but if a person makes a mistake, he has to admit it. I'd really like to apologize to Patrik Nacher for saying that there are no points, no backs from the Senate next Tuesday or next Tuesday, there are two points left from the last meeting... One. I apologize to him, and I promise him that when he proposes it again on the 17th, even though I disagree with him, I will support his proposal as an apology for what I did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-06-ps2017-039-08-001-027.u25	Thank you. And we can continue with point 28. The Minister for Agriculture and the rapporteur stayed at the rapporteur's table, which is fine because item number 28 is
