ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u1	33. Government draft law on the selection of persons in the management and supervisory bodies of legal persons with state ownership (nomination law) /German press 220/ - first reading This proposal will not be made by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, but by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek, so I ask the Minister to present the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before you with the Government's proposal for a nomination law, which is therefore a law which should introduce uniform and transparent rules for the selection of the members of the institutions either of the managing or supervisory bodies in the event that they are a legal person with the ownership of the State... So typically a business corporation...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u3	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace, so that the Minister may introduce us to the Government's proposal. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u4	Thank you. ... but also about state enterprise, national enterprise or state organization Railway Infrastructure Administration. The proposal assumes that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u5	Yes, Minister. Once again, I will invite the members of the House to create conditions for all of us to hear you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u6	Thank you. The government proposal envisages the establishment of an advisory body of the government, which will therefore be a committee on personnel nominations, a five-member advisory body appointed for a period of five years by persons who should provide a guarantee of experience in the activities of commercial corporations. From these requirements I can state the age of at least 30 years, full self-righteousness, integrity and, in particular, five years' experience in the management of legal entities plus other tax-based activities in the field of the economy and the activities of legal entities. The important thing is that a member of the committee will not be able to be a member of a political party or a political movement. A member of that committee will be an appealable government, but only on the ground that he will not participate in the Committee's activities for more than six months. As far as the selection of persons is concerned, the proposal distinguishes between the selection of persons into the management bodies and the supervisory authorities. In both cases, although the committee on personnel nominations will be required to discuss it as an advisory body of the Government, it will always be necessary for the management bodies to prioritize the selection procedure, which will be published transparently, and in principle any person who fulfils the conditions will be able to sign up for it. In the case of supervisory authorities, the difference is that the selection procedure will be voluntary. This means that the selection procedure as such can take place, but it will not be compulsory. It will be mandatory only for the meeting of the Personnel Nomination Committee. The Committee on Personnel Nominations will interview candidates, candidates, nominees for those institutions and will make recommendations on this basis, which of them is the most suitable candidate. Its conclusions will also be published in order to maximise the transparency of the entire process. Whoever comes forward with this proposal before the committee on personnel nominations, which will typically be a relevant minister, will be able to deviate from the recommendation that the government committee on personnel nominations gives, but if it does so, its duty will be to publish on the website the reasons why it has deviated from the recommendation of the committee on personnel nominations. As I said before, the aim of the proposal is to strengthen transparency and confidence in the activities of legal entities in which the State is to participate. This is a proposal which, to a certain extent, follows up on the proposal submitted in the previous parliamentary term. It is true that a certain time has passed since its submission to the Chamber of Deputies and according to the press number, the original assumption that it will take effect on 1 January 2019 is of course no longer realistic, but I still ask that the proposal be referred to the next legislative process, that it be discussed and that the adoption of a law that will adjust the nominations is something that we need in terms of transparency and the perception of the functioning of the public power at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u7	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your opening words have been quite comprehensive on this bill. I just want to point out one problem that I have with as a politician, and that is so called. non-political policy. So are we supposed to promote the experts and not involve politics in this? Because the politics in that expertise is a dirty word. Or do we take political responsibility for the management and operation of those businesses that politicians set up? These are the companies that are set up by the government, with state participation, where we operate, we stand, and where the state itself has its interests. In other words, there are supposed to be experts out of politics, but then the responsibility ends in the management function, and if I just fail, I'm gonna get in trouble, so they're gonna call me off, that's the punishment I'm gonna get, but the political party that put me in there, it's not like it's not like I'm going to get away, it's something wrong, that the far-reaching consequences of my step I've taken are going to go somewhere and towards the people, against the political parties that are in power, there's gonna be some kind of sanctions, banging, etc., it's gonna be passé. Or by being nominated by the political party there, do I have the political responsibility for the work I have there, and should I be responsible for the political steps I take? And if I'm able to understand this non-political policy with those executives that make direct decisions, those executives, I don't quite understand it in the supervisory ones. Because as a supervisor, that's the control. And that political control should be maintained, because where else the opposition should need to be able to know what's going on, when let's say the government level retains the influence and the information flow and keeps it close. Where else, other than those supervisory bodies, should the opposition that targets any results have the information option? So I have this problem with it. And the growth of non-political politics is modern, although it is nice and it increases transparency, I understand that when everything is published and it is on the outside. On the other hand, I am able to say dozens of examples of the problematic things that are causing this. I think that even the greatest proclaimers of these procedures in this House, after experience of collision with reality in cities where they are and where they work, are aware of the constraints and limits of this solution and, in my opinion, they will find themselves quite quickly to have the political influence, the responsibility for something, bear with them the other side of the matter. So I need to know exactly what's going on there and deal with it, and not just rely on it -- but if, I'll call you off. It's just extreme. But the political responsibility for the decision should remain in those businesses that the state has or has a stake in it. If it's not, I don't know how the responsibility goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u9	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I will introduce you to the apologies that have come. Mr Jan Chvojka apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek from 11.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Petr Gazdík from 13.00 to the end of the day, Mr Jan Lipavský from 10.00 to 14.00 for reasons of action, Mr Ondřej Benešík from 11.00 to 14.00 and Mr Radek Koten apologizes for the rest of the day for health reasons. I am now opening a general debate. Mr Stanjura, Mr Martínek, is the first to sign up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u10	Thank you for the floor. I agree with the Minister that it is a good thing that we will discuss these matters. And I would like to take my speech a little more widely than the content of the proposed law, and debate here and then in committees after the meaning of this law, what we expect of it. Only then should we fight for specific sections and specific texts. I think it's crucial to focus on the role of owner. In companies with state participation it is the state, in regional companies it is the region, in self-governing municipalities, cities, they are the relevant councils, councils, mayor. [[unintelligible]] I am a little concerned that this law is to relieve political responsibility - and I am not saying that it is an intended effect, rather an unintended effect - the political responsibility of those who represent the public, whether at national, regional or municipal level, and are part of their work to take care of those enterprises with the participation of the public sector. And let's say quite openly, responsibilities, I really think that the duty of management, management and control bodies is to stick to the will of the owner. I know it's perfectly natural that we wouldn't discuss in private companies when the owner gives a strategy that his management, his board of directors or supervisory board would decide otherwise, and if only once. And it's natural. So let's imagine, we have a left-wing government, we're going to adopt some law, I don't want to run into the sections right now, we're going to put out a tender, and we're going to sign up for experts who have right-wing visions of the world. They're basically without a chance. But I understand. I don't know if they'd volunteer if they had the will to do the left-wing program. But if we say, "We're looking for an expert, let the business run as best as he thinks," he might have a completely different political opinion, and now I'm not talking about if he's an experienced manager, he can, he can handle driving, but he can have a completely different field... not a political, professional view of the direction of the company - what to do, how to do, whether to privatise part or whether to buy part, whether to expand or maintain the existing range, or reduce the scope of services. So here's what we're talking about. Of course, it is of interest to all of us, and especially to those who are responsible for those state, regional, urban businesses, so that people are qualified there. If one of these representations sends people who are unqualified, whether with or without a party book, it is their responsibility and ultimately their shame. Let's face it. We've been saying for a long time, and I'm talking about the ownership of the owner, and today we're at national level, so I'm going to talk about the responsibility of ministers for those nominees who are involved in the management or control of the company in their department. And we repeatedly argue and believe that the Minister has the clear political responsibility. And I'm on my own, and now I'm not speaking for our whole party, I'm saying I don't care if he's naming someone directly, making some kind of closed or completely open tender. For me, the result is important. But I have to accept what I was talking about at the beginning of my speech that this management, these management and control bodies, will fulfill the will of the owner, which is very often represented not only by the government as a whole, but by a specific minister. Yes, the government sometimes consults on these key strategic issues, sometimes there is a resolution. But in the ordinary, I'd say operation. If I speak for the Department of Transport, it's probably hard for the entire government to choose management and control, even if it's a little different there, that's where the board of directors is. But in the eyes of the public, the Minister of Transport bears full political responsibility. And it doesn't matter which government. It's just universal. Well, I'd like us to remember the role of owner in this debate. We are here to criticize, if necessary, the faulty strategy of businesses, or the wrong staffing. But I'm sure it's not our role to run these businesses from the opposition and recommend what the manager is supposed to do, or the one who... Also, when we say, and when we think that the business is run badly, we call on the Minister's political responsibility because he is responsible to us as the Chamber of Deputies. And, of course, the debate on those parameters is legitimate. I just think there are too many expectations. If the minister makes a bad decision, the quality won't improve, no matter what tool we have. And then we have to look at the reality. And I'll start from the bottom. Many mayors and chieftains will confirm that there is little interest when they choose the principals of primary schools or secondary schools. It's not like dozens of people apply because the job is complicated, responsible, ungrateful. I was talking here when the new police president was picking. And it was disappointing for me that there were two participants. I don't think that's enough. Very often, when you look into practice, the previous government introduced the personnel committee. I have to admit, for the first two years, I've been watching those shows. [[With a smile.]] It was so... I'd say it was a travesty. Public record, so transparent. And it said: then and then, a committee of three met. By the way, every government party put one expert in there. It doesn't matter that he was or wasn't a party member. He was nominated by the particular political party. When there were three sides, there were three. Now I don't know what it's gonna be. Now there's three or four sides in the government, so let's see if it's four-person, that even an expert here at the SPD would sit down. And here's what happened: Mr x or Mrs Y showed up, presented his project, and after questions and the discussion that took place, the committee decided to recommend it. That's, like, 90%. And ten percent were the same text - point A and B, and for C it was, the committee decided not to recommend it. And now, let's see how many of them, when they were recommended, had a direct link to those political parties. It's not important to me. It's important to me how these people work there. But those who speak so loudly, and now I speak especially of the YES movement, and the Minister represents the YES movement, speak loudly about it, and then words and actions are different. Yesterday or the day before yesterday in another debate here some colleagues from the government party, I no longer know who it was, I apologize, pardied a tender organised by another parliamentary party at the municipal level. I'd say they were parodying. And in particular, they paralyzed and mocked the requirement of knowledge of the specific party's program. But I was talking about the fact that the people who run the state companies have to implement the government's strategy. So the essential condition for them to be nominated and, in particular, to function well, they must know what the government wants and follow it accordingly. And no one's parading anymore, if we understand each other. I thought the request was normal. I'd do it differently, I'd never write it. But it's logical that when I send someone, I want them to represent the opinion of the owner represented by the city council, the regional council, the government. And we shouldn't forget that in the debate. So let's not say that we're in the private sector, and we're looking for a manager who's gonna suggest that he's gonna run the business his own way, and that the owner's gonna be in seclusion somewhere. We are looking for managers or members of management bodies who will implement the assignment of the owner, which in this case is the state, respectively. Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u11	Thank you. Mr Staněk will respond to a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to react briefly to what was said by the previous speaker here a moment ago, by your means, because we have managed to merge a little bit again two things that are not entirely one of us. What the owner wants should be expressed in some specific form. According to the OECD, ownership policy is preferred for a clearly recommended form. What we're talking about right now is the nomination law. A law that will actually be chosen, or according to which managers will be chosen, who will exercise the will of the owner. Whether it's a private owner or a public owner really doesn't play such a crucial role and it's not even important whether the manager works in the private sector or in the public sphere. He has to work as best he can, and he has to follow the assignment of the owner. And I see this as the biggest problem. The assignment of the owner in our case is not usually formalized. So let's not mix this up completely, let's distinguish these two issues, that is, the nomination of managers versus the political will and political responsibility of the coalition or the ruling party itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u13	Thank you. Now in the debate, Mr Martínek. Mr Dolínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am glad that this law is again being passed at the House's meeting. On the other hand, it should be noted that the proposed form is more moderate than the earlier proposals made by the Pirates and others and does not have to meet the expectations that citizens have of this law. That is why I would also like to make this recommendation that, by the second reading, we will put forward amendments that will regulate the law in order to better meet the public's expectations. One of our amendments will also be, for example, the binding decision of the nomination committee, which is also recommended by the State Reconstruction Platform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u15	Thank you. Mr Dolínek will be next. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u16	Thank you. I am also glad that the government has decided to set some rules. After all, for four years, I have attended these discussions, and I think it is not from the point of view when there is a predictable environment. However, I hope that the Minister has said this in the context of the introductory words rather than badly, but I, like Mr Luzar, have been saying this, have not liked one thing lately, and that is that a member of the political party as if it were a mangy person. It's like it's someone who's bad. But it's not like that. Someone's a fireman, somebody's a fisherman, somebody's a beekeeper, somebody's in a political party. I understand that we can have principles here and say, "The five chosen ones will not be on the sides." That's a principle we can tell each other. But it would be wrong to think that we're doing this because we think that being in a political party or a movement is wrong. We're doing this because we want to set the rules this way. And I would like it not to be confused, so that some initiatives here and some others then write that actually - you see, that's a politician, that's evil. It's just not evil. It's fun, it's a hobby, it's a life's mission for someone. Everybody's got it different. But it's normal here, it's normal in the European Union, it's normal all over the world. And I'd like us to be aware of that in the debate that we're going to have here in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u17	Now in the debate, Minister Kněžínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u18	Thank you. I'm just going to react briefly. Of course, the purpose of this proposal is not to replace the political decision-making; it is not only to withdraw their right to politicians, their mandate that they have received from the electorate, or their responsibility for the decision. In principle, it is really about strengthening transparency, perhaps increasing the legitimacy of this decision. Perhaps facilitating this political decision-making in a situation where they respect the committee's recommendations, and perhaps making the situation more difficult for possible excesses that might otherwise occur, even though it is true that excess is, in principle, always an exception. It must also be said that the committee on personnel nominations has been working on that executive basis for quite a long time, and it does not seem to take the burden of political responsibility out of politicians, and I assume that neither will the legislation. In terms of excluding political parties and political movements from committee membership, we are really only talking about the committee. I fully agree that political parties and political movements are an integral part of representative democracy. She can't actually work without them. It's not some pejorative label. On the other hand, we are talking about five people throughout the Czech Republic and I firmly believe that five experts will be found who will not be members of the political party at the same time. By the way, this condition no longer applies to membership of the management and supervisory bodies. So there will be members of a political party or political movement if this matter is discussed by the committee on personnel nominations. The only situation that the law envisages when those parties would be excluded is an extraordinary speedy procedure in which the committee on personnel nominations would not be able to do so. So much for an explanation. And it is not really about replacing the political decision-making, but about creating the conditions for its transparent course. And that, by the way, is why the conclusions, why the recommendations of the HR nomination committee can't and shouldn't be binding. Therefore, only recommending, because otherwise the result would be exactly the one we would not want, that is the dilution of responsibility for those decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u19	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Prime Minister Michálek will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I am sorry that the Prime Minister is not here, with whom we have discussed this issue of nomination law and ownership policy intensively, and since he has recently said that we are bullying him, I wanted to commend him, but he is not here. Well, that's too bad. However, I still commend him and thank you for being able to present this bill. It is a matter that we supported during the last parliamentary term, when we were not here, when we were still those non-voting politicians, activists, so we supported the establishment of transparent procedures for nominations to those basic bodies of companies that manage hundreds of billions of crowns. I fully sign what has been said here by my colleague Staněk on ownership policy. That's the crucial thing. We, unfortunately, had provisions on ownership policy in our proposal, which was rejected by the Chamber of Deputies. The property policy describes the interests of the owner in the organization. Mr. Stanjura was a little upset that he didn't quite know what it was meant to be, but I think we've cleared it up. It is simply that somewhere it is formally written, whether the aim of Budějovický Budvar is to generate profit or subsidize Czech hoppers and expand the agricultural committee, or to provide the cheapest beer to all citizens of the Czech Republic. These fundamentals of the goal, including dividend policy and x other things, are things that need to be clearly captured in that ownership policy. Of course, many companies share their interests, so there is also the possibility of using some synergies, and it should not happen that if the state has such a huge portfolio of assets, so that there will also be a certain resortism. I know it from the capital of Prague, and I think it works the same way in the state. Once the manager starts to claim that this is his business company and doesn't look at anything else, it usually doesn't end well, and then when you have to deal with complex projects that are across more organizations, such as in Prague Opencard, where there was a Transport Company, an ICT operator, ROPID, the City of Prague, etc., it is difficult to manage. And it's important that those targets are recorded in one particular place. For example, this is the case in the city of Brno, where in the last election there was a coalition, where there was also an ANO as the promoter of the proposal, as well as we as the promoter of the previous proposal, so it is a thing that is tried, which we do not have to take, which also works in the Nordic states, Sweden etc. The question of expertise. There, of course, I agree with what Petr Dolínek said that a politician should also be his expertise, and we should not argue that when someone is a politician, this and priori exclude expertise in some area. Of course, when it ends with the appointment of worthy politicians to those supervisory councils just because they lost their job in an elected post, it raises, of course, completely justified questions as to whether they are political traders. And it is precisely the removal of those so-called political trade fairs that have occurred in the past that I think is very important, and I think that this principle should also be inspired by self-government, to bring it into operation. The last question I would like to dedicate is political responsibility. I don't think we really need to worry about the fact that if there was some major scandal in some business company - and we know that there were historically scandals, corruption affairs, whether in CEZ or in another business company, it obviously has an impact on the political responsibility of the political party that has in mind the involvement of the supervisory board or that particular resort or who is in the government. I think that political responsibility is there, whether we want it or not. So much for the nomination law. We will support the proposal, and at second reading we will strive to add the things that fell out of our original proposal, i.e. in particular, the question of ownership policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u21	Thank you. The following will be the factual remarks made by the Lords of Svoboda, Bláha and Staněk, in this order. Mr. Freedom is next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u22	Allow me to speak from the experience of a person with a history of nominations. What you're saying here is a game. A game of how to hide how it actually works. There are countries that will elect their mayor or mayor, and he will nanominate the team that rules with him. And he has full responsibility for it. And we're creating a system here where we're gonna try to pick someone. What's a non-strike? I've been a non-staker my whole life. But I've had a clear political orientation my whole life, and I would never vote or do anything that's left-wing perversions to say it extremely. And in that case, can I be chosen? Can I be chosen by the left-wing government if I'm not a party? I can't. What is independence or human quality? How do you judge her? What do you know about his ties to someone named him? How do you know he's not related to someone he's naming? It's not his wife or his registered partner, but is he connected to him? The selections are just that when you see these people then, you see that the reason they were chosen is in the vast majority of cases not professional, but some kind of bonding. And that's what I fought, that's what I lost, and that's what you lose when you set it up like that. It's just gonna be built so that I can choose who I want. No matter what. These are all points I don't want to say fake, but interpret otherwise. That's just a wrong attitude. It can't work that way. It has to work on one thing: the personal responsibility of whoever runs the company. [[Time!]] I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u23	Well, thank you, even for keeping time tight. And another, with Mr Bláha in fact, will be prepared by Mr Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u24	I would like to put my foreman up through the President's thumb, because that is exactly the case. We're setting something here that won't work. Anyone who's ever auditioned for a company knows that even the expertise isn't the most important thing. The most important thing is something extra. In addition, the move on the goal, the ability to navigate things that I never knew, I didn't know, and the ability to drive people, to talk to them. Find among them the ones I can count on, i.e. some empathy, etc., etc. Driving anything, whether it's a small collective or a big one, requires a vast amount of skills, and I would put that expertise somewhere in the middle. It's really not important. The important thing is if the person wants to do it 100%. So some precise set standards, as we choose, won't work. One unnamed food chain chose for so long that he chose a cheater who took away both suppliers because she wanted to be noticed for deliveries, so she took away the company as well. It was so expunged that the chain of trade in question was over. Even though he had a 50-, 60-year tradition. So it's just about how you want to choose transparently. It's nonsense for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u25	I will now request the speech of Mr Pavel Staněk, so far the last factual one. So it's your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I would like to comment on two previous speakers. First of all, I agree with my colleague Michálek by means of you, when what he described here, I agree with this in principle, except perhaps one thing, when he described it a little idyllic - for example, how we will support Czech hoppers. Because, of course, all the decisions that the owner and, above all, the public-law owner make in that ownership policy must be consistent with what the Commercial Corporations Act allows. So we can't completely think that we're going to make any decision to support anyone in any social interest, and we can do it this way. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. And as for my fellow Members of Svoboda and my honourable colleague Bláha, I must say, for a moment I felt like I was listening to my fellow Members from Mars through the President. Because for two years, I was responsible for the operation of city companies in Brno. We have selected almost a dozen managers in the committees from completely transparent public management, but we do not select people who represent politicians, choose managers, and those managers do the job. So maybe these selection procedures are, the nomination law makes sense. It depends, of course, on the criteria that we will put on individual managers and how we will apply them in the selection procedure. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u27	That was the last request for a performance so far. So I'll look around the O.R. to see if there's any other interest in getting out. I do not see any interest, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Minister Kněžínek, Mr. Mr. Luzar? You're not interested. I have not noticed any proposals that we should be voting on here in terms of return or rejection, so we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. So I'm gonna look in the hall and ask if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee. I don't see the motion, so I'm checking you out because I see the application for check-out. Please log in with your voting cards again. [[Mr. Faltynek suggests a request for a gong.]] Zagonguji, I was going to do that, Mr. Chairman. You know I gong regularly to give the room to everyone to come. I think we've arrived in sufficient numbers. So I'm taking the vote. Who, for the commandment, is an economic committee as a guarantee? Who's against it? Voting number 102, registered is 138 Members, for 137, against 0. The result - was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask if anyone has a proposal for us to order this proposal to the next committee for discussion. Yes. Chairman of the Pirates' Club, Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u28	Thank you for the floor. I am giving consideration to whether, given that this is a matter addressed by the Ministry of Finance, which manages a large part of the assets and has the relevant law on state property in its opinion, if it is not also an issue that should be discussed on the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u29	Are you giving consideration, or are you suggesting that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u30	I am giving this proposal and it will be decided by a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-011-033.u31	I wonder if there's another suggestion. I don't see another suggestion. So we have a proposal here to vote on the fact that the next committee to discuss the proposal would be the Committee on Budgets. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 103, 141 Members signed in, for 51, versus 3. The motion was denied. So, for the moment, at first reading, I am done discussing this proposal. [[12.20 hours]] We'll move on to the next press. This is about
