ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u1	11. Kateřina Valachová's proposal, Patrik Nacher, Alena Gajdůškovášková, Marek Benda, Lukáš Kolářík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 493/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 493/1, and I will ask Mrs Kateřina Valachová to present the proposal as the appellants. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u2	Dear House -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u3	I'll cut you off. Dear House, please be quiet. The meeting really started. It's a meeting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u4	Dear House, Dear Government, allow me to introduce you to the amendment to the insolvency law. It's a parliamentary proposal. And what's his goal? I am very glad that I was able to get the support of other colleagues for this parliamentary proposal, because the content of this amendment is a simple thing, or perhaps a simple thing at first sight. More than 50,000 young people in our Republic have fallen into a debt trap, and not because they might not want to pay their debts, because debts are due, but because at the 18th year of their age, they were in a situation where their debt was already the one that actually caused the so-called child debt. You know that this House, at first reading, supported the amendment to the Civil Code and the Civil Code, also from the parliamentary workshop, so that children's debts would not occur in the future. This is, let's say, step two, when we want to deal with these situations, as I say, tens of thousands of young people who have gotten into an impossible situation precisely because children's debts in our country could have arisen. And instead of stepping on legal representatives and parents, he left children in a situation where their debt at age 18 was such that they basically got into debt traps before they were fully legally responsible. The amendment to the insolvency law is quite strict because, of course, it is also trying to balance creditors' rights. And I think that the entire insolvency law and its philosophy in terms of the last government amendment that passed last year is based on the fact that we want a balance between mandatory and creditor. Because frankly, each of us can get into the situation of the creditor and then the situation of the debtor. [[9.20 hours]] As regards the execution of child debts, the amendment to the insolvency law allows debt relief at a time of three years for those who behave responsibly and after the 18th year of their age, precisely because of child debts, with two-thirds of these child debts, which is quite a lot, so they decide to resolve their situation with such unfair debt and to de-debt. The amendment to the insolvency law will enable these young people to be de-debted within three years, paying back monthly all the funds they can. The philosophy of this amendment of the insolvency law in the case of young children and, say, children's debts is the same as in the case of seniors and disabled people as other vulnerable persons, which we have made it easier to debt by the amendment of the insolvency law from the government workshop in the autumn of this year. Among other things, I remind you again that this was my amendment at the time, so colleagues and colleagues, you will understand that I am completely consistent in my opinions. I would like to say that this amendment to the insolvency law has the support of all the political parties in the House, and I would like to thank all the colleagues who signed this parliamentary proposal not only for their support, but also for providing guarantees for their clubs that this amendment will go through one vote at first reading and that we will protect the most vulnerable group of young people and children as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I thank all the political parties and all the submitters. And thank you once again to the House for the undoubtedly smooth course of this amendment and for its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u5	Thank you, Madame. Although the proposal has the support of all parties, there's always an elevated noise level in the hall. I ask all the crowds, I don't want to name them, I don't want to say on which side, if possible, transfer your actions to the lobby, allow your colleagues and colleagues to have a calm discussion. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mrs Monika Červíčková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u6	Hello, everyone, and thank you for the floor, Mr President. As rapporteur for this House Press, I would simply like to put it briefly because, in fact, my colleague Kateřina Valachová has presented the House's press in detail, so I can only add that I am of course very pleased that this topic is being dealt with here, because the problems of child execution really resonate not only in society, but here it turned out that even in the House, across all the political parties. So I, too, would like to thank you for that. And I can only add from the rapporteur's position that the proposal does, of course, contain quite some understatements, and I will be glad if they are removed during the next legislative process. However, the aim is to eliminate the problem of child debt, and I think that this proposal meets. The government took a favourable position on this House press, but it also pointed out that for its future problem-free application it is necessary to consider some partial adjustments in the next legislative process. So I believe that all this will be adjusted and that this law will really be for the benefit of the children who are in this unfortunate situation. So this is all for the rapporteur, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which the first Mr Dominik Feri to whom I hereby give the floor is entered at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, let me briefly justify why TOP 09 supports this proposal and why we are signed under it. During the discussion of the big amendment to the insolvency law, the debt amendment to the insolvency law, we have always held not only the legitimate interests of debtors but also the legitimate interests of creditors. And maybe sometimes too hard, so hard, that we've even been pushed forward, that we're rejecting the bailout institute, that is, debt relief, as such. But that's not true. We think that bankruptcy and some way to resolve it are simply a traditional part of our legal order. Debts as such have been created since time immemorial, bankruptcy - so it was already in the 18th century in the case of the Josefín bankruptcy order, and debt relief - so this is a relatively new institute, but it still settled very quickly in our legal order. We simply wanted some level playing field, which means that the creditor should not be completely forgotten and at least get something and see from the original debt. I think this has been achieved after many compromises. And now, in the light of many excesses and many media cases, we are delighted that Kateřina Valachová has come up with this proposal - thank you very much for this - who is trying to retrospectively address the wild west that has been here, simply that these claims have been dealt wildly. The fact that the debtor is a minor, that he didn't even know about the debt, that the finding procedure took place completely without his knowledge, we all want to deal with this proposal together. This is a retrospective proposal, solves debts of the past, and according to our court, these are really excesses, where it is appropriate to accept more favourable conditions for debt relief, that is, in the three-year regime. As far as any prospective solution is concerned, we have already discussed on our executive subcommittee the possibility of a modification, which has been read here as a draft, and I am reporting this in the future, but what happened in the past addresses this proposal, and therefore we support it, and we also support the accelerated negotiations in the regime of § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mr Jan Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few comments on the amendment to the insolvency law, I certainly do not want to prolong the debate because it is obvious that there is maximum consensus across the entire political spectrum. If we have recently voted a milder debt regime for seniors and disabled people here in the House, it is certainly right that we will also help debtors who bring their debts to life from their childhood and teenage years. In this respect, I see the proposed adjustment, from my perspective reasonable and balanced, as I see it, as less problematic than the more general proposal for a new conception of child debts in the Civil Code, as my previous speaker said, and in the Civil Procedure Code, which seems to require a really more professional and consistent debate on the basis of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we sent the proposal at the beginning of June of this year. In the context of this present - and I repeat, from my point of view, a beneficial - amendment to the insolvency law, however, I would like to warn at the same time that the tendency to forgive debts and to mitigate the de-debt procedure extends further to groups of debtors who already have full responsibility for their behaviour. We will probably also soon be dealing with another amendment to the insolvency law, which will respond to the newly approved European directive, and here I want to say that this brings new rules for debt relief for both entrepreneurs and self-employed people, and we will have to incarnate it into the Czech legal system in the foreseeable future. That is why I think it is good to know that this directive envisages a complete debt relief of up to three years without giving the minimum amount that debtors would have to repay. At the same time, the directive sets out the conditions to ensure that this form of debt relief applies only to the honest ones. I personally look at the content of this directive with great concern, and I will be happy if the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the public statements made by Minister Benešová, makes use of the space that European regulation gives us and accepts reasonable exceptions wherever this is undoubtedly appropriate. I also believe that, at the same time, the Ministry will not use this legislation as a means of further changes, including those which it has failed to enforce in the past. In conclusion. However, with even greater concern, I will be looking for a legislative process on Parliament's soil, because it will once again open the door to the debate on the introduction of that so many-time discussion of zero for non-business debtors, and I consider that very dangerous. Moreover, I think that we should first know how, in practice, individuals will take up recently approved and very sensitively balanced amendments to insolvency, and this will not be a matter of several months. To sum up, I welcome and support the proposal put forward to facilitate the entry into the life of young debtors, but I warn in the future that we continue to mitigate conditions where there is no justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with priority rights, Mr President Výborný, then Mr Kolářík, if he did not just greet me when he entered the hall, but I can see that he applied. After that, Mr Nacher, everyone has applied in this way. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, I would like, first of all, to convey here the position of the subcommittee on the issue of execution, insolvency and debt, which dealt with the press in question in 493, this brief amendment to the insolvency law, as presented here by the petitioner Kateřina Valachová. The subcommittee clearly supported the approval of this amendment by the Chamber of Deputies plenary, in order to approve it under the procedure of Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, because we consider it a necessary and relatively rapid step, which is related to the entire package of child debts. I want to stress here that this is not the only solution. We here, of course, are dealing with this at the moment to make a young person start his independent economic life at the age of 18, respectively. After reaching the 18th year of his life, he had reasonable conditions not to be burdened by debts, which unfortunately often do not go to the fault of his own, but go to the fault of irresponsible behavior of his parents, virtually. Legal representatives. Because the debts were often caused by the irresponsible behavior of parents in the childhood of this young person. Of course, this burden borne by the young man affects him at the beginning of his professional career, his professional career. And we're not suggesting anything else here, and we're trying to go again, just like we did in a debate about the insolvency law, we're trying to go with a balanced option. Therefore, we are proposing not absolute forgiveness, but we are talking about the fact that if at least two thirds of the debt arose before the 18th year of life, then we will allow the young person - and I would like to point out that this applies not only to 18-year-olds today, but this applies to 20-year-olds, 25-year-olds, if they actually have the debts that arose from two thirds before they reach the 18th year of life, so they will be entitled not to immediate debt, but will be entitled to it accelerated, i.e. they will be under the same scheme as persons receiving an old-age pension and will be under the same scheme as persons with disabilities in third and fourth degrees. So they will be entitled to a faster three-year debt, at least partially simplifying their start in a separate life. I would like to ask the House very much not only on the recommendation of the subcommittee, but also on the basis of the agreement of all nine Members' clubs, to support this law in the accelerated negotiations under the regime of Section 90. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u13	Thank you. I will read the apologies: Mr Jiří Kohoutek apologizes for today's meeting for family reasons. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda apologizes between 9 and 13 o'clock without giving any reason. Mr Kolářík, now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u14	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I would just like to say that, of course, the pirát support this proposal. I would like to thank you all for allowing it to be discussed in the so-called 90, i.e. in an accelerated regime, so we can correct what we have neglected when discussing a major amendment to the insolvency law, and therefore we will put those children in the category of particularly vulnerable persons between seniors and disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, President Farský. Then, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u16	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We have also joined this rapid amendment for the Mayors' and Independent Club because we think it points to one of the problems that is simply connected with the executions here, and that some of our citizens, young people, are sending into our lives with a bit of broken legs and a complication for which they are often not entirely responsible. It's a long time ago how education was going on in the family, how education was going on, and then the kids are in a situation where at that start, which should let them go into free life, when they can realize and achieve some success and make their dreams come true, so we're just gonna make it impossible for them right at the beginning. I think that's a good thing. When we talked about this with my colleague Valachová, I personally thought that at the age of 18, respectively. In those years when you're looking for your way, three years is a long enough time. I would rather lean towards the year, because I think that stopping someone in this period for three years means creating a handicap that will go with him anyway until the next decade. But simply politics is a matter of compromise and art to achieve a result, and here I understand that if it was to have the support of all clubs, it was necessary to find a compromise solution that would achieve it. I do not think that it is a very good business card for the government that Members must come up with such solutions. Similarly, in the insolvency law, the move to the goal was replaced in the finals by Members, and I would say right here by colleague Mark Výborný as chairman of the subcommittee, who at some stage took over the energy. And I am glad that although not entirely in the ideal version from my point of view, the insolvency law in January was passed and has been effective since June. I think we're gonna go back to him, but we're not gonna use that law. I would like to draw attention to one more problem of execution and remind it, because that is the problem that Prime Minister Babiš named at the end of March, and that is the problem of illegal executions. We're talking tens of thousands of cases here, but there are hundreds of thousands of cases in illegal executions. In the Czech Republic, even though it has been made clear since 2011 by the Supreme Court that executions, which are based on invalid arbitration clauses, invalid orders, are illegal and must not be enforced in this way. Yet it runs, whether it is in the Czech Social Security Administration, in courts, it runs further and several hundred thousand people in the Czech Republic pay debts that should not be paid properly. This isn't, to be exact, the big amount, this is about the base. The foundation remains. Of course, debt is debt. The problem is the accessories, which are often multiple of the original debt, which make the debtor a serf, who only pays back interest and accessories, and somehow doesn't have a chance to pay it back, because the creditor keeps it so in his pliers that he makes him his serf, to whom he sends all the money he can and which the executor gets out of him. The moment he does it on the basis of an illegal execution order, I think it's totally unacceptable. And this is a situation where, in March, the Prime Minister signed up for it. He said originally that he had already abolished the 200 thousand illegal executions. Then we made it clear in a very short time that he didn't cancel and that there are still a few hundred thousand still here. It has been promised that active steps will be taken, but the active steps are not yet very fast. I send the courts around the Czech Republic with dozens of proposals and these courts decide differently. Some stop, some reject me, that I am not a party to the proceedings, and some refuse, but stop ex officio, as they have a duty under the decision, according to several confirmed caselaw. In this I would like to ask the government, because it is not a matter of legislative solution, but I would ask the government here to make these 200 thousand or more cases, because of course it is 200,000 cases, but it affects another hundreds of thousands of people, which I would say, in sum, is a multiple problem with more scope than the problem of child execution, so that the government takes this problem of these modern servitudes, who are being held in a corner by illegal executions, which may have been actively devoted. It's a shame every month we miss this activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Now, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Briefly to the novel itself. It was also discussed by the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection, where it also received support, including the accelerated consultation. I'll put it in some context. We are talking about these children's debts in several planes and on several levels - at national and municipal level, when it comes to stopping children's executions by, for example, transport companies, and from the point of view of time to the past and to the future. As far as the future goes, we're dealing with a proposal that's a little more complicated, and that's not the match - that's the 456 print. However, in the past it is 493, that is what we now approve, I thank you for the support, and it is basically that a young person who often - I don't know if it was said here - has not caused the debt, actually entering the adult age and already has some burden. That means we're allowing him to include him among those particularly vulnerable people where there are seniors and people with disabilities today. That's the end of it, but I have to... I can't not respond to a colleague of Farský who suddenly brought in those invalid executions or unlawful executions. I would like to remind you that this is also the case - first of all - that they have, as has been said, the official duty of ex officio to rule the courts. They don't do that, so the government took a few steps. First, the Minister of Justice sent a letter to the courts. That was April. At the beginning of last month, the Prime Minister sent a letter to all major state employers, such as the Czech Post, the Czech Railways and so on, to look at the employers, the accountants, who are tearing down the executions of the employees, to look at the execution title, on what basis, and if they had identified that it would have been an invalid execution, so that they would have asked for a halt. So in this - it doesn't belong here at all, however, so that it doesn't say that there's nothing to be done about it. He does, he draws attention to it, and I hope it moves. However, I must remind you here that they have to make decisions about this - and they should automatically do so - by the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Fialová has applied, then Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u20	Thank you for the floor. hezký morning, everyone. I wanted to thank the processors for submitting this amendment because I am from the Ústí Region, where we deal with the problem of child executions every day, we have one of the highest numbers on our heads, and I think that this amendment will contribute to a much faster start of children into life, teenagers who come from our homes very often and are burdened with almost all children's executions, the irresponsible behaviour of their parents, and these children certainly do not deserve it. I am very happy for the processing and support across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Benda, for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, of course I support this proposal because I signed under it, but when I watch the debate a little bit, I still feel that some things should be heard here. First of all, I'm sorry the Minister of Justice isn't here like this... I know she didn't know. Every minister here is supposed to be here the whole time of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I think is his basic duty, and I regret that he is not here, because he is showing up during the meeting, which takes place especially around the press of the amendment to the Civil Code, that the problem lies a lot in the area of justice. These standards are basically written relatively correctly, only they would have to be correctly applied and interpreted. And if we are in a situation today that the Convention on the Rights of the Child says that the child must in any case be heard, and so happens in undisputed proceedings, particularly divorce proceedings, there have already been learned by the courts, but in these questionable proceedings, when debt is commanded, the child is almost never heard, has no representation, even in those problematic cases where it is evidently in conflict with its parents or legal representatives and has no legal representation. This is simply one of the key problems, and I think that this is a problem of more education in the area of justice, more indeed of trying to convince those judges who are doing ordinary debt things that, as far as the child is concerned, they have to assess his ability to commit in such a way. They're supposed to judge whether it's really what the Civil Code says, whether it's consistent with his age and mental equipment, or whether it's really the parents' fault. And if I'm being told today that a seven-year-old child is being judged on his own, that he hasn't paid his ticket yet, while he's riding with Mommy, I feel absurd, and I don't think it's a mistake in lawmaking, but he's really in the app. Well, that's the first point. Second comment on child debt, which is a bit sad again. Ninety-nine percent of the child's debts are actually generated by public authorities, including transport companies. It's almost never any private contracts, it's almost never any, like somebody borrowed something somewhere, which would probably be problematic, but it's not really like that. They're just municipal charges, medical fees, fare and other things. And I don't know if public authority here, if I take it as a total global, shouldn't have thought about itself a little bit and considered whether it's reasonable in this case to enforce and whether it makes sense for us to then have to adopt such extraordinary amendments to the insolvency law. But I support the amendment otherwise, of course, just pointing out the contexts that we will discuss especially after the Civil Code comes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u23	Thank you. Mr Benda's contribution raised a factual remark by Mrs Válková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u24	Dear colleagues, it's factual, so you don't have to worry about any longer speeches. On that note number one. I am in agreement with what the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee has said here, on the one hand, on the other hand, he knows very well that this afternoon we will meet with the Minister of Justice at an informal session, where we will be dealing with a question which we will find difficult to deal with by legislation, and that is precisely what needs to be done by our courts. There it is also in the Supreme Court to unite the case-law in order to ensure the training of those judges who currently decide differently, as we know, regionally very differently, it is not quite okay. So it's hard for the secretary to do anything about that other than education and some pressure at the Justice Academy. Otherwise, it is in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. But she's counting on meeting us, so I don't really see why she should come here and be here when she can work more usefully at the Justice Department and she comes here -- that's my opinion, I was the Justice Minister -- and she comes here for the press that's planned. And at noon, we're definitely gonna tell her the contents of what happened here, so I don't think she missed anything in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u25	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Not the plaintiff, nor the rapporteur. We will now decide, because no objection has been raised, no procedural veto has been raised, we will decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of the proposal. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 493 so that it can be agreed with at first reading." There is a request for a check-out that I have just granted, and I will ask you to re-subscribe with your identification cards. [[Rush in the hall.]] Colleagues are still coming, we will wait a little while before the vote. [[9.50 hours]] The number of votes seems to have stabilized. I have read the motion for a resolution. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered is 172, for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] The law hasn't passed yet, that's just the first step. I am therefore initiating a detailed debate at the moment. I ask who is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask again if there is interest in final words. The appellant - she is not interested, the rapporteur - is not interested. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Kateřina Valachová, Patrik Nacher, Alena Gajdůškovášková, Marek Benda, Lukáš Kolařík and others to issue a law amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, according to House Press 493. [[insolvency law]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 36, 175 Members registered, for 175, against no one. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u26	House, thank you so much for your support across the political spectrum, for your double applause. And today, I'm really proud of the House at this point. And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-001-011.u27	I'll finish it then. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. Thank you, everyone. We'll continue with the approved program, third readings. I'm opening the point first.
