ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u1	256. The Senate's request for consent The Chamber of Deputies with the filing of a constitutional action against the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman to the Constitutional Court for gross violations of the Constitution or other parts of the Constitutional Order pursuant to Art. 65 Constitutions of the Czech Republic / House printing 561/ The Senate submitted a request to the Chamber of Deputies to agree to bring a constitutional action against the President of the Republic on 30 July this year. The House press was delivered on 31 July this year. I would remind you that if the Chamber of Deputies, pursuant to Rule 65 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, In accordance with Article 70 (3) of the Constitution and in accordance with Article 70 (2) of the Treaty on European Union, 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall not give its consent within three months of the date on which the Senate applied for it. I welcome Senators Václav Láska and Tomáš Golán among us and I ask them to take the floor gradually. At the same time, I ask you, colleagues, to calm down in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. I would like to begin by thanking those Members' Clubs, who have gathered for our request to the Senate representatives at the meetings of their clubs and have provided room for discussions on the action and the issues related to it. Most of these negotiations were handled by my colleague Senator Tomáš Goláň, and I know that these negotiations were meaningful and useful to the cause. We have offered this opportunity to discuss the action jointly to all the Members' clubs represented in the House. Maybe by discussing all the clubs, we could cut back on my opening statement a little bit. But since the parliamentary clubs YES, KSČM and SPD have not heard our offer or responded to it at all, I do not want these Members and Members to be deprived of the precise presentation of the action and the discussion issues associated with it. So I have approached this introductory word quite extensively, and I warn you in advance that the frequent opening commitment of the speaker in the Czech Parliament - I will be brief - will not be heard from my mouth this time. The main element and the linking element of the whole action is the continuous effort of the President of the Czech Republic to achieve a factual change in the parliamentary system to the semi-president system or directly to the Presidential system, with the help of violations of the Constitution. More inexplicably, the President is trying to achieve a situation where the Czech Government will not be controlled and responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, but will be entirely dependent on the will of the President of the Czech Republic. And it should be noted that during the term of President Miloš Zeman, he managed to achieve such a situation in the sum of two cases almost more than one year. It is a situation that can be faced in two ways. Either to remain silent, accept the fact that the President of the Republic, contrary to the Constitution and constitutional order, introduces the presidential system into the Czech Republic and usurps the powers that are not his own, or let the Constitutional Court interpret the Czech Constitution by authority, evaluates the President's actions and sets rules for the performance of the presidential mandate not only for the president of the present, but also for future presidents. The Upper Chamber of Parliament has decided not to remain silent. The Senate has the role of prosecutor. The Senate is the only one who can initiate a constitutional suit against the President. If the Senate were to remain silent, the controversial actions of the President would become part of constitutional order for the present and for the future. The presidents who came after Miloš Zeman could quite rightly conclude that everything that Miloš Zeman has done in his office is fine because no one has raised their vote against it. So they can repeat such actions at any time. And maybe add a little extra. The Senate refused to remain silent. The Senate took its responsibility. And it may be a bit paradoxical that in the actions of the lawsuit that I will describe, these are the rights of the Chamber of Deputies, which the President claims. It's the House, which the president eliminated several times in violation of the Constitution. And yet it is the Senate who defends the House's lawsuit. And the House is cold for now. Now, then, to describe the individual works. First Deed - Under Point And the action - concerns the situation where the President of the Republic appointed Prime Minister Jiří Rusnok on 25 June 2013 and subsequently on 10 July 2013 other members of the Government, although he knew that the majority in the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament was settled, which would support the government under its political leadership. After having not received the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies on 7 August 2013, the government thus appointed has remained in office until 29 January 2014 by not naming another Prime Minister, although he has been confronted since November 2013 after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, that there is a settled majority in the Chamber of Deputies that can and wants to assemble and support a government that would support it. For more than seven months, the President of the Republic has created a purely presidential system of executive governance. Right away, this first act in its purest form shows a situation where the president completely excluded the Chamber of Deputies, and for seven months, the government was only responsible to the President of the Republic. The Czech Republic is a parliamentary system. Its basic constitutional rule is that the government is responsible to the House. The one who has a political majority in the House is to rule. He also answers to the House. And if the House is not satisfied with him, he may be distrusted and taken over by someone else. All these instruments of parliamentary democracy have been eliminated by President Miloš Zeman. He ignored the fact that there is a majority in the House that can form a government and build a government of his own. He ignored the fact that this government did not have confidence and allowed it to continue to rule in peace. All control elements of the Chamber of Deputies towards the Government were interrupted and only the President of the Czech Republic decided on the future of the government. It was his government. Government of the President of the Czech Republic. A secondary reason for the lawsuit, but perhaps an important reason for some of you, may be the fact that this government really fulfilled the wishes of the President of the Czech Republic, implemented his personal wishes and his personal preferences. If you wish to argue that previous presidents have also agreed to appoint administrative governments, then I must draw your attention to one major circumstance. Previous bureaucratic governments have always been created after direct negotiations between the presidents and the House. They arose with the consent of the House and gained its trust. In previous cases of civil servants, the presidents acted as real mediators who tried to resolve the political crisis in cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies. In the case of the official government of Jiří Rusnok, the president has only abused the political crisis to establish a government that will be under his personal control and implement his program, his wishes, his personal interests. [[9.40 hours]] The second act - under point B - concerns the situation where the President of the Republic immediately after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies held on 25 to 26 October 2013 sought, through non-public and secret negotiations, to ensure that its President Bohuslav Sobotka, but another person more acceptable to the President of the Republic, is not the nominee of the winning political party to the Prime Minister. He then burdened the process of appointment of the Government with excessive delays, which led to the appointment of a government that had a stable majority in the Chamber of Deputies from the very beginning, up to 95 days after the election. This deed, if it stood by itself, could possibly have the slightest seriousness. In itself, it may not even be a strong enough reason for bringing an action, but, in the context of the actions of others, it undoubtedly belongs to the action. Once again, this action does not address excesses in the President's actions. It deals with its systematic and continuous violation of the Constitution with the motive to implement its personal interests. Even in this particular case, the President of the Republic did not hesitate to break his constitutional responsibilities in fulfilling his role in the appointment of a new government to implement his personal wishes and preferences. Although in the present case it can be said that the wish of the President was also realized rather on his personal antipathy and resentment against some of the actors of these events. The third act - under point C - describes the situation in which the President of the Republic repeatedly declared in the period from at least 4 May 2017 to 9 May 2017 the intention to evaluate the publicly announced resignation of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka by referring its consequences only to its President, to which he then appoints another Prime Minister with the assumed preservation of the Government's mandate as a whole. The President of the Republic then refused to comply with the Prime Minister's proposal to appeal the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš of 5 May 2017. On the other hand, it is possible to monitor the continued implementation of the presidential mandate on the basis of the President's personal antipathy to certain persons and, on the contrary, the beginning of the power pact between the President of the Republic and Andrej Babiš, all at the cost of violating the Constitution. The interpretation of the Constitution on the consequences of the Prime Minister is quite indisputable. It is clear not only to constitutional lawyers, but it was clear to the President of the Republic at a time when he himself was not yet president. The President denied himself by this expression, which unfortunately became quite a typical accompanying sign of the performance of his mandate. It is essential to the action that the President of the Republic, led by the motive of personal antipathy, publicly declared his intention to violate the Constitution and, consequently, violated the Constitution by refusing to comply with the Prime Minister's proposal for appeal. The Prime Minister is responsible for the government. He is responsible for the actions of individual ministers and his fundamental powers are to exclude them from the government of such a minister, for whose actions he continues to refuse to bear responsibility. So it must be the Prime Minister who, in a privileged way, decides who will be a member of the government and who will not, for whom he will take responsibility and for whom he will not. The president's role in the appeal of a member of the government is purely formal. If the President refuses to comply with the Prime Minister's motion to appeal a member of the Government, such government becomes the Prime Minister's government and not the Prime Minister's government, even though the Prime Minister, unlike the President, continues to be responsible for such a government. The fourth act - under point D - describes the situation in which the President of the Republic, after the Government of Andrej Babiš, did not gain the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies on 16 January 2018, and subsequently resigned on 17 January 2018, delayed the appointment of the President of the next Government until 6 June 2018 and other members of the Government until 27 June 2018. The President thus created a situation by extending government rule in demise without seeking a political solution that would remove the obstacle to the government's lack of confidence, in which the government actually ruled without any responsibility to the Chamber of Deputies for more than five months from the moment it was built for sure that it did not receive that trust. The argument on this point would essentially follow the argument to point A, i.e. to the administrative government of Jiří Rusnok. The President ignored the will of the Chamber of Deputies and left in power a government that lost the trust of the House and resigned. Five months! Throughout these five months, it was only the President of the Republic who could, figuratively speaking, end the government's activities by snapping his fingers. Thus, this government was entirely dependent on the will and wishes of the President of the Republic regarding its future. It wasn't Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's government. It was once again the government of the President of the Republic for these five months. The fifth act - under point E of the action - concerns the situation where the President of the Republic refused to appoint Miroslav Poche as Minister of Foreign Affairs after the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš proposed his appointment on 25 June 2018. In this case, it must be foreshadowed that it will require a certain degree of evidence, in particular proof of exactly how Andrej Babiš behaved in this matter, how exactly he formulated his proposals for the appointment of the Foreign Minister, and evidence is designed to prove this in the action. This, together with point F, is different from all the points previously presented. For points A to D, there is no dispute as to how the events took place. Therefore, the proposals for evidence are limited mainly to news from the media, especially the Czech News Agency and public media, which collectively describe a completely indisputable factual story. In particular, the assessment of these cases from the perspective of the Constitutional Court will consist in the legal assessment of the undisputed facts. For points E and F, the situation is different from that of the facts itself. That is what the Senate was counting on in the concept of an action and proposed evidence to prove the facts as it considered to have been carried out. This situation is also envisaged by the law when the Act on the Constitutional Court refers to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the case of evidence in procedural rules. According to his rules, evidence will take place, including witness interviews or requests for information from third parties. However, from the point of view of the concept of the whole action, it is once again a plea in which the President of the Republic claims direct influence on the composition of the government in breach of his constitutional obligations. Again, it must be reiterated that the Prime Minister is responsible for the government and for the political responsibility of the political party involved in the establishment of the government. Only those can decide who will become a member of the government and who will not. It is possible to accept a situation where the President will turn aside from his or her powers in the appointment of members of the Government in a unique and precise manner and, of course, to justify his or her step. In the present case, however, this is just another step of the President in implementing his permanent desire to have control over the Government of the Czech Republic, and, in the justification for the appointment or dismissal of a member of the Government, he follows only his sympathies or antipathy and does not make a single meaningful argument for his departure from his constitutional duties. The sixth act - under point F - is a deed in which the President of the Republic developed on 29 May 2018 non-proceeding and informal pressure on the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, JUDr. Josef Baxa to influence this court's decision on a specific matter to which he was a participant. As I said a moment ago, this act will require evidence and proof of the alleged facts and will stand, in particular, on witness statements. On the contrary, from the point of view of the legal assessment, it seems quite clear that little can be a gross violation of the Constitution rather than an unlawful and illegal ingerence in the decision-making of the courts. It is all of us's duty to build trust in the rule of law and independent justice. We are not often embezzling from this obligation, but few go as far as the President of the Republic, who inspires confidence in independent justice not only in words but also in concrete actions. [[distrust?]] If, in the subsequent discussion, there will be a debate on the meeting of the parliamentary subcommittee which dealt with the situation, I would like to say in advance that the conclusion of this subcommittee does not call into question the legitimacy of this action in the action. The conclusion of the subcommittee was that the independence of the judiciary was not threatened. Not that she wasn't threatened. The ultimate condition was in a way only the moral integrity of the judges addressed. They resisted the pressure on their person, and thank them for it. However, this does not change the fact that the President of the Republic tried to influence their decisions. The failure of his efforts to do so has no bearing on the plea in question. [[9.50 hours]] The seventh act - under point G - is the most up-to-date and well-known. It concerns the non-revocation of the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk and not the name of Minister Michal Šmarda. The argument on this point is essentially identical to that of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Moreover, on this point, there is a significant majority agreement between constitutional lawyers that this is a gross violation of the Constitution by the President. I will therefore only stop at the argument that the constitutional action could not have been based on this plea. As I said at the outset, the Senate is responsible not only for bringing a lawsuit, but also for what actions it may be silent on. If he had based his action only on one act, he would again legitimize all other acts of the President and de facto form part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Secondly, if the Constitutional Court decides that the President has committed a gross violation of the Constitution, then by law the President is losing his mandate and the right to reclaim it. And I cannot imagine a Constitutional Court ruling on the loss of the President's mandate on the basis of one isolated act, albeit undoubtedly a gross violation of the Constitution. What's more, even I can't imagine defending to the public the opinion that the president should be relieved of his mandate because he hasn't called off or named the Minister of Culture. Each consequence of the infringement is to be proportionate to the seriousness of such an infringement, and unfortunately, the Constitutional Court law does not allow the variability of the consequences. The result is only one - fatal - loss of mandate. Therefore, it must be the plaintiff, in the present case, the Senate, who is proposing its action in such a way that, if any, the loss of the President's mandate is proportionate to the error that the President is guilty of indictment. And the third reason. This action does not have any ambition in quotes to punish individual excesses of the President. Its ambition is to prove that the President of the Czech Republic continuously violates the Constitution and Constitutional Order, and it is also intended to demonstrate the motivation for which the President is doing so. And on top of that, one deed, although indisputable, is not enough. The last plea - under point H - is a set of eight partial acts, which constitute, in their sum, the eighth separate act of gross infringement of the Constitution. The concept of this action was based on e.g. from the published opinion of constitutional lawyers Kysela and Wintr. In their expert publication, they concluded that gross violation can be achieved by the intensity of an individual act or by the duration of more acts less serious. After all, such a definition of gross infringement is recognised and applied e.g. even in international law. The Senate action shall contain both these methods of gross infringement of the Constitution. Under points A to G, it describes seven separate acts, each of which, in terms of their intensity, is a separate gross violation of the Constitution, and then contains an H point where eight minor acts are, as a result of their duration and continuity, an eighth separate gross infringement of the Constitution. I will no longer introduce these eight partial acts to you alone. This is a set of meetings in which the President systematically violated his constitutional obligations or laws, which he undertook to comply with by a composite presidential promise, i.e. he violated the Constitution prescribed by the Presidential Promise. Originally, this item contained twenty separate acts. It was narrowed down when, as the authors of the lawsuit, we heard the arguments of our colleagues that, in particular, acts based on verbal expressions, the action should not contain. Thus, we have left the actions built on the act or the failure of the President, and there are also acts on which the Senate has previously expressed itself and called upon the President to remedy the resolutions adopted. Here I would stress the argument that the Senate has agreed to approve the case as the last possible solution. He had previously tried to correct the President in the negotiations which he considered to be unconstitutional, adopted by resolutions. The president ignored them. She wasn't worth the response, much less taking anything from them. Perhaps, in the case of these adopted resolutions of the Senate, a bonmot could justifiably land, that it was walking with a hippo pin, as was said at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the House. Thus, when the pin was past its effect, the Senate proceeded to initiate a constitutional lawsuit and considered it an adequate and sufficiently powerful instrument to regulate the actions it considers to be unconstitutional. And frankly, I don't know what other stronger instrument for a president to correct his actions contrary to the Constitution could be used than a constitutional action that may lead to the loss of his mandate. The only thing needed for this is the approval of the Chamber of Deputies. If it isn't given, it will be the House who will make a prepared constitutional lawsuit just another pin. So much for the description and presentation of individual actions, and now for other legal or political issues that are often the subject of discussion. The first is the definition of gross violation of the Constitution. It is a criticism that the Constitution does not contain a definition of gross infringement and, in the absence of such a definition, it is a fault of the Constitution and therefore cannot be applied at all. I'm afraid such an argument is a failure to understand the functioning of the law. There is a reason that the Constitution is talking about the offence of gross violation of the Constitution. It means that not for any violation of the Constitution can the President be affected by the Constitutional Court. This means that it must be a breach of a certain degree of intensity or a breach of an important obligation or principle. What exactly can be regarded as such a gross breach is then a question of interpretation of judicial practice or e.g. explanatory notes or expert comments. In the case of a constitutional action for gross infringement of the Constitution, we do not have any judicial decision, i.e. we lack the caselaw. The fact that gross infringements are not defined by case law does not mean that they cannot be sued. That would be a vicious circle. You can't sue because there's no case law. And the caselaw will never be, because you can't sue. This situation merely puts higher demands on the plaintiff's design of the lawsuit. He himself must create an argument for the fact that the defendant of the infringement of the Constitution is a violation of gross. And the senát has lived up to that. He carefully justified why the alleged violation of the Constitution is gross and what important principles have been violated, e.g. the very basic principle that the government is responsible to the House. And the fact that gross violation is not defined directly in the Constitution or the Law is not a mistake. Other laws work successfully with the concept of gross violation without definition contained directly in the law. It is possible to mention e.g. Section 55 of the Labour Code - termination of employment for a particularly gross breach of obligations, or Section 820 of the Civil Code - gross breach of parental obligations, or Section 2266 of the Civil Code - gross breach of the lessor's obligations. And you could keep doing that. The absence of a definition of gross infringement directly in the law is clearly not an obstacle to the application of the provision of the law which requires gross infringement. Another issue discussed was the defences of the first term of office, which are the content of the action. Neither the Constitution nor the law at all distinguish between the acts which are the subject of the action during which the term of office was to take place. In this respect, it lays down a single condition for bringing an action, namely that the action may be brought only when the President exercises his mandate, there is no other limit. If, theoretically, we admit that a constitutional suit against the President can only be brought for actions from the current parliamentary term, and that would therefore be an extremely narrowing interpretation of the law, then we would actually create a practice where the President is completely unstoppable at the end of his term. You can see for yourself that the process of bringing a constitutional action lasts at least six months, i.e. any actions by the President of the last six months of his mandate, would not have been possible at all. Such a conclusion, such a situation is inadmissible. After all, the round table of top constitutional lawyers held on Monday at the House of Deputies has clearly agreed that suing acts from the first parliamentary term does not pose any problem at all and is possible. While I am at this round table, he was occupied by top experts and constitutional lawyers from the Czech Republic. The panel was really very representative. Unfortunately, only four Members arrived at this parliamentary event. Therefore, I will try to bring the conclusions of this round table closer to the present action. [[10.00 hours]] The majority of the agreement of the lawyers present was that the current action is a legal text that deserves an assessment by the Constitutional Court. Similarly, the majority agreement was that the President of the Republic was moving our system from parliamentary to semi-president. And if we keep quiet about it, then we accept such a shift, even if it contradicts our ústava. The discussion was about how wide the lawsuit should be. Whether it's minor, that is, to sue only what's folded or vice versa, whether it should be as complex as it is. I mean, a lawsuit that doesn't build on proving excesses, but on proving the entire complex of negotiations by which the president tries to take authority that doesn't belong to him. Prove some conceptual approach to the destruction of our constitutional system. Different views ruled on the most serious actions of the lawsuit. Some people thought they were the cause of not calling off ministers, others maintaining governments without trust in power. However, the consensus was that the action contained acts of gross violation of the Constitution. And also that if the Constitutional Court accepts the President's guilt even in a single defendant's act, the action will be successful. Finally, he also resonated the view that, in a situation where the Czech Republic's constitutional system is undoubtedly destroyed by the President, the Constitutional Court should also lay the limits on the exercise of the presidency on the basis of the action put forward. And I won't forget the discussion that politicians are supposed to deal with the current situation in the first place. Especially the Prime Minister, who submissively gives his authority to the President. Thus, such an expert discussion has been held. And the present lawsuit came out with honor. Like a legal text to go all the way to the Constitutional Court. And when he decides on some of the partial issues authorityally. Of course, I am registering that there is also the expert opinions of some of you Members against this professional argument of constitutional lawyers, which are vaguely summarized in the statement: it is a slat. Or: it's such a mess that I won't even read it. You may have different opinions for refusing to grant consent to file a lawsuit against the President. Perhaps what matters to you is that the president is ready to grant an abscess to the Prime Minister. Or you are grateful that the President will personally come to your party convention and help you legitimize your existence, which you have otherwise lost completely by your past deeds. Or maybe you're grateful to the president for letting your president do a selfie with him, and then he could brag on his Facebook page about how he met the president. You can have all these reasons. Let's hear it! Don't hide behind the phrase that the lawsuit is a lawsuit! Such a statement is opposed to the opinion of renowned constitutional lawyers. So show courage and tell us what is really leading you in your decision making! Another objection was the campaign. We have also heard other evasive maneuvers to justify the unwillingness of some to support the consent to bring an action. I heard the lawsuit was just a campaign. And so it wasn't the votes from the club YES. They say that the conduct of some senators in connection with a lawsuit is just part of their election campaign. Well, I'll tell you one thing. This lawsuit is not the work of an individual senator. It is the joint will of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And 37 senators signed the lawsuit themselves. And you know what? Senators have also signed up for the suit, which is really a year away from defending their mandate. And they're running in the constituency where President Miloš Zeman won 60 percent of the vote in the last election. Still, they signed the lawsuit. I appeal to some of you: Stop seeing politics with your own optics! Indeed, there are politicians, in this case senators and senators, who do things only according to their best knowledge and conscience. No matter what he does with their political preferences. I beg you not to insult my colleagues and colleagues who have signed or voted for the lawsuit, by saying that this is a campaign. If you would like to object to the fact that you do not know who voted in favour of the action because the vote was secret, I would like to remind you that the secret proceedings and the vote on the action are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. We couldn't choose. Still, I don't think you'll find a senator or a senator to question how he voted. No one kept their choice secret. And one more little comment on the vote. It was said in the media that the lawsuit was approved in the Senate by only three votes. That's supposed to cut her weight. The Senate suit was approved by 48 of the 75 senators present. It took 45 votes to approve. So four percent more senators voted in favour of the lawsuit than was needed for approval. In the last presidential election, the President of the Republic received exactly 1.36 percent more than it needed to be elected. So please don't downplay the result in the Senate. It was exactly three times as big a reserve as the president had for his election in the last presidential election to approve the Senate's lawsuit. And I have also heard nowhere: the president's mandate is weak, because the president only got 1.36 percent more than he needed. Back to the substance of the lawsuit. The end is coming up. The role of the Senate and the House. The last question discussed is the role of the House and the Senate in bringing an action. I have to say no to the Senate being like a police investigator and the House as a prosecutor. This was also said at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. It's really not like that! The Senate is both a prosecutor and an investigator. He's the one who initiates the lawsuit. The one who must assemble it and bear responsibility for its text. And also the person who will defend her before the Constitutional Court, if necessary. The House is the one who gives or does not consent to the lawsuit. Each of the chambers of the Czech Parliament, the Senate and the House, is responsible for its decision. There is no relation between the chambers of subjection to this lawsuit as to how division between a police officer and a state's attorney could evoke. There is also one crucial point: The Senate does not write a lawsuit so that the House likes it so that it passes through the House. The Senate is writing a lawsuit to be successful with her as a prosecutor before the Constitutional Court. He cannot look back on what the House wishes for or not. The House will bear its own responsibility for its decision. Therefore, whatever your decision is, it will be neither defeat nor victory of the Senate. Only the Constitutional Court can decide on the success or failure of the Senate as a prosecutor. But if you decide not to give your consent to file a lawsuit, there will be one loser. The loser will be parliamentary democracy, which will voluntarily and without resistance be run over by the presidential system. And once again, the paradox is that it is currently the Senate that is trying to defend parliamentary democracy. And that's even though his rights aren't compromised. The Senate has no authority over the government. The rights that are usurped by the president are yours. These are the rights of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u3	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue by speaking to the other senator, Senator Golán, if that is what he wishes. Yes. A fellow rapporteur will leave time for the Senator. [[Of a kind used]] So we have the opening word, and then we'll start with the news report. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u4	Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members, I will, of course, be brief, I will be more relevant. Of course, I promised your rapporteur here. I'm gonna stress one thing. We're not dealing with anything that's just up to date. What is important at this meeting today will come for futuro, for the future. It is the protection of a truly parliamentary democracy. It's the protection of every political party sitting here. Today, this lawsuit is intended primarily to protect social democracy, which has suffered the most by some kind of intervention by the President. However, we must realise that whoever is sitting here can, the next time we have another president, feel the same desire to intervene in the establishment of government, individual ministers, to interfere further in her work. Somehow, even in the case of foreign policy, to ruin this work. This is a thing that really has to set the boundaries for the future. Mantines of something we don't have here. [[10.10 hours]] I'm sure the prosecution isn't perfect. There are things that are totally debatable to me. However, there is no precedent. There's never been a lawsuit. We have nothing to build on. There's nothing to come out of. We can build on customs, but those customs must be set up by someone. And if we realize how the legal system works in advanced societies, all principles and interpretations of laws are implemented by the courts. None of you here can say whether the lawsuit is good or bad, so that he can judge it as a Constitutional Court. I don't even know if the lawsuit is relevant or irrelevant, whether all the points are correct or not. But I do know one thing, because I have been in administrative justice for a long time: if seven points are wrong in any lawsuit, but the eighth one is enough for the court to rule in favour of the lawsuit. Here you can't go to percentages, how many points are good and how many are bad, one single point is enough to make a lawsuit, any lawsuit, even the President's lawsuit a success. And no one else can say it, judge it, say it but the Constitutional Court. And we can't think that the Constitutional Court will be biased against the President. You all know very well who appointed the Constitutional Court. [[In an elevated voice.]] Constitutional judges shall be appointed by the President. Even though they are appointed by the President, I believe they will be impartial if you give them the chance to show that impartiality. I call for us to focus on individual points, techniques and explaining what is important and what is not. So we don't get offended because we don't solve anything with insults. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u5	Thank you, Senator Tomáš Goláň. I note that this House press has discussed the constitutionally legal committee of the Chamber of Deputies, whose resolution has been delivered to you as the House press 561/1. I will now request the floor of the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to inform us of the committee's deliberations. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has asked the Chamber of Deputies to agree to bring a constitutional action against the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman to the Constitutional Court for gross violations of the Constitution or any other part of the Constitutional Order under Article 65 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. In order to accept the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to bring a constitutional action, a three-fifth majority of all Members are required. 6 days. 9. 2019 The Constitutional Committee discussed the matter and adopted the following resolution: "After the statement of Senator Mgr Václav Láska, intelligence report by . Zuzana Ožanová and, after the debate, the Constitutional Committee I. Notes that 1. the constitutional action against the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman was brought before the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate in accordance with Article 65 (2) and (3) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic; 2. The three-month period laid down in Article 65 (3) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic to accept the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to bring a constitutional action to the Constitutional Court shall end at 24.00 on 30 October 2019. If the Chamber of Deputies does not give its consent by this date, the consent shall not be given; 3. no amendments may be tabled in the Chamber of Deputies for the application of the Constitution; II. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that: 1. the constitutional action has been discussed before the aforementioned date; 2. it has acted publicly on a constitutional action; 3. Instructed the President of the Chamber of Deputies to immediately inform the President of the Senate of the outcome of the vote in the Chamber of Deputies; III. Instructs 1. The Committee's rapporteur shall inform the Chamber of Deputies of the conduct of the constitutional committee and of the constitutional action in its deliberations; 2. the President of the Committee to present this resolution without delay to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." So much for the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee. The lawsuit itself. The action shall be defined by the acts A to H, the acts referred to in points (a) to (h) below H. Evidence of individual acts is supported, mostly by news from the Czech News Agency. Furthermore, press releases from the Office of the President of the Republic, or other press releases and media reports are to a very small extent represented. The definition of the proceedings follows the reasoning of the various acts, the fact that the proposal is discussed and, finally, the material character of the constitutional offence. Article 65 (2) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic states in which cases a constitutional action may be brought against the President. These reasons are 1. treason; 2. gross breach of the Constitution or any other part of the constitutional order. The Senate proposes that a constitutional action be brought for gross violation of the Constitution or any other part of the constitutional order. The gross violation is such a serious violation for which the Constitutional Court may decide that the President of the Republic is losing the presidency and the capacity to re-acquire it. According to Article 104 of Law No. 182/1993 Coll., on the Constitutional Court, either the Constitutional Court will comply with the constitutional lawsuit and decides that the President of the Republic has committed treason or gross violation of the Constitution or any other part of the Constitutional Order, or will acquit him of the constitutional lawsuits. The President of the Republic loses the presidency and the capacity to re-acquire as soon as the finding granted to the Constitutional Prosecutor has been declared. I recommend that you The Chamber of Deputies discussed a constitutional lawsuit by 30. 10. 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u7	I thank the rapporteur and first of all I note that further apologies have been made to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. First, an apology from the Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, for work reasons for today's day. He also apologises from 10.45 to 11.45 hours for working reasons by Mrs Věra Adámková. Furthermore, the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, and Dražilová have passed out since she apologized from 9.30 to 10.00. Now, before I start the debate, I note that eight Members and Members have made themselves known with priority rights before the debate begins. First of all, the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček came forward. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, you know that I rarely, exceptionally, understand the performance of my duties at this stand, but I believe that in this emergency, the appearance of the Chamber President is necessary. When I considered how to take my speech, I could, of course, proceed with a point by point, look for legal shortcomings in the material you have before you, and can be found there. I could also focus on individual political motives of individual senators. But I come before you with the ambition to influence the atmosphere of today's negotiations, because, honourable Members, it is the first time in history that the Chamber of Deputies is discussing an action against the President of the Republic. It's a historic moment from the point of view of the history of our constitutionality. Perhaps we do not realize this in the everyday rush, so it is logical to consider the purpose of the lawsuit and the approach to this matter. The President of the Republic is, like us, elected citizens. The election of the President and the elections to the Chamber of Deputies are the citizens most experienced, for which speaks the greatest participation in these elections from all the elections that take place in our country. Despite the possible difference in political orientation, the cast of the Chamber of Deputies and the office of the President of the Republic is the result of the democratic decision of the voters to whom we must respect, because the people are the source of all power in our country. We Members and the President of the Republic have the right to exercise, for a specified time, the mandate and powers that the Constitution gives us. [[10.20 hours]] The action against the President of the Republic is supposed to be an exceptional solution to the limit situations that occurred in our history in 1939, for example, when President Emil Hácha handed over the fate of Bohemia and Moravia to the hands of the enemy German empire. It is certainly not meant to be a continuation of political struggle by other means, no matter how heated this political struggle is. History is a life teacher. In the history of the United States, as is said to be the world's longest continuous democracy, which is set as a model of long-term democracy, the first of two actions against the President of the United States were brought in 1868. It happened after the bloody civil war of the North against the South. At the end of the war, President Abraham Lincoln realized that winning the war was one thing, but restoring the unity of the state was another. Therefore, for his second term, he, the Republican of the North, chose in 1864 as his Vice President Democrat from the South of Andrew Johnson. Andrew Johnson remained loyal to the Union and rejected the Southern State Department, but this symbol of the new era Lincoln - Johnson changed radically when Lincoln was murdered and suddenly the South Democrat became president. A number of northern Republicans couldn't bear to be ruled by a man they perceived as a loser after the war was won, and they decided to remove him. Not by murder, but by lawsuit. And since they didn't have a real offense at him to find him, they sued him for aversion to Congress, for contempt of Congress. This historical parallel is very strong for me, which is why I want to talk about it now. According to the U.S. Constitution, of course the situation is a little different, the analogy is not accurate, the House of Representatives is suing and the Senate judges under the chairmanship of the Supreme Court President. A two-thirds majority of senators are needed for conviction. The prosecution was brought, the political scene was filled with hatred, when many MPs and senators, imagine, in the presence of President Johnson, whom they understood as a Jižan, they wore bloodied shirts to prove their blood spilled or their sons in the war of the North against the South. The president's opponents were confident of defeat because the voice of the Republican senator from the state of Kansas Edmund Ross, who was elected after his predecessor, the sympathizer of the President, had committed suicide as a result of the public hunt. Ross was a great critic of the president. The President's guilty vote took place on 16 May 1868. Ross disagreed with the president in political or personal life, yet he voted in favour of the President's innocence. It was crucial because one single vote was missing from the conviction. Ross refused to see the lawsuit against the president as a continuation of the political struggle. He realized that Johnson was elected president just as he was a senator of the will of the voters, and that the president made decisions within the framework of his constitutional powers, even though Congress didn't like the way he made decisions. That is why another prominent American president, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, has included Ross as seven personalities in his book The Profiles of Courage, where he celebrates those who have helped American democracy through their actions. I got this book shortly after I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies from a good friend with dedication and inspiration. And the time of this book has now come. When voting on the Senate's action, it is good to remember that it is not only what the newspaper, which is now broadcasting television, or what will be on the Internet in a moment, but also whether this vote will be considered a victory of constitutional democratic rules in the future, or simply as a continuation of political struggle in a new form. Each of you Members must choose the way he wants today, and I apologize for the easy pathos he wants to face today before history. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u9	I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies for his speech. Mr Tomio Okamura is the next leader with priority rights. Jaroslav Faltýnek, Chairman of the ANO Group of Parliament with priority rights, will be prepared. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are here today to deal with a lawsuit against the President of the Republic is not because the President is violating the Constitution. Even those who spread this fantasy know that. The fact is, President Zeman did nothing but what Havel and President Klaus did before and after him. Havel was applauded, Klaus was reluctantly tolerated, and Zeman is already sued. And right at the beginning, I'm going to say the SPD's position. We will not support the prosecution against President Zeman. All of the President's prosecutors are lashing out with democracy, but we all know that the greatest democracy fighter was their guru Václav Havel, who was always pushing behind-the-scenes elitist deals and political deals, and who was thwarting the referendum law and the direct election of the president just because he would lose the direct election against Dubček at the time. Why are we here? Senator Václav Láska repeated several times that the purpose of the action is not to dismiss the President, i.e. to prove him a gross violation of the Constitution, but - I quote - "that the aim is to set limits for the execution of the presidential mandate." I certainly understand that some people may find the Constitution not very accurate on some points, and I understand that her interpretation, which didn't bother with Havel, is drinking blood from Zeman. But the senators and, apparently, many Members have also learned that the powers of the President are not the courts, but the legislature, which has the power to change the Constitution. For my part, I would add that this power should be given to citizens in a referendum, but unfortunately, anti-democrats from democrats and other societies reject real democracy, and the proposal for a referendum from the SPD is consistently blocked. What is it, then? kupodivu enough, it's not just the election theater of those who have no agenda but to fight Zeman. It's just a facade for street people. But the very aim of these people is to challenge democracy. The President of the Republic was elected in a direct election, received 2,853,390 votes. And unlike Senator Lásek and his less than 13,000 voters, the president has more than 220 times his mandate. The President and his office are in our constitutional system of counterweight to the legislature and executively. It has been so since the beginning of our independent republic, and from the beginning, there has always been a struggle between party elitist and the presidents behind which the citizens stood. Our first, so-called interim constitution was originally even more chancellor than the current German constitution. It stated that Parliament elects not only the Prime Minister but the entire government. When Masaryk found out when he returned from emigration, he strongly opposed it and pushed through the classic parliamentary system, namely that he would appoint the government and its members. He did not even wait for the definitive constitution, but immediately passed the amendment to the interim one, see constitutional law No. 271/1919 Coll. The fact that, from then until 1948, we had a classic parliamentary system in which the President was an insurance policy against Parliament is the constitutional legacy of President Masaryk and his personal merit. Unfortunately, his goal was to introduce democracy in Czechoslovakia following the model of Switzerland. Although the Czechoslovak Constitution counted on the referendum, its wording was very compromise. If the National Assembly rejected the Government's bill, the government could have put out a referendum and had it approved by citizens. [[10.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, what backstage players are watching to fight the president is the fight against democracy, against the power of the people. The strong president elected by citizens means a strong counterweight of political parties and, of course, against the so far strong unelected power centres, which move Czech but also European politics. In the long run, I say that direct choice is not yet a direct democracy. This is also the direct rebuttal of a directly elected policy, of course the revocability of citizens, or also the direct choice or reprehensibility of the law, i.e. a referendum. If you ladies and gentlemen mind the President and you are Democrats, give citizens a chance, whether they decide, not obscure rocketists like Mr. Láska, whether the citizens decide in direct choice whether their president should remain in office or leave it. And here I would like to remind you that the draft constitutional law of the SPD pen, which introduces the direct choice and appeal of politicians, has been here in the House for almost two years and the pseudo-democratic party so-called. The demo block is being rejected by this law. Democracy is promoting the will and power of the people, not a few manipulators who are hiding behind democracy, but really is the worst dream for them. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are truly dear to the citizens, and I see no reason to waste our time here on legal nonsense, which is merely a political and marketing exhibition, which is meant to bring points on one side and damage the other, incite hatred and divide society. This is the goal of these politicians from the so-called. Demoblock. To be dear to the citizens, I would remind you that the SPD movement was the only one that proposed freezing politicians' salaries here. But you outvoted us and rejected our proposal! If you want the President to have boundaries to be responsible, then the best way is to pass the referendum bill proposed by the SPD, in which it will be possible to vote on the withdrawal of politicians. I say politicians deliberately, because to hold petitions for the appeal of President Zeman, Babiš, or Okamura is a great idea for some of you, but as you know, even more direct appeal would endanger many of you. And a shirt closer than a coat. Closer is a place in the House than some democracy that you just need to play for you. There is talk of how the president threatens the political stability or reputation of our country, but don't you see that there is the most embarrassing fact in a Senate lawsuit that he wants to formally just get some restrictions on the President's powers from the Constitutional Court, and in fact no one is even counting on the fact that such a messed-up file will ever get to the Constitutional Court? By a constitutional action against the President, the authors risk the stability of the state and damage the reputation of our country only to obtain an alleged solution to their theoretical disputes about the interpretation of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the president in Czech tradition is a completely different function than in neighbouring Slovakia, Austria or Germany. The President, in our view, is indeed the third pillar of power, and thanks to direct choice, he is the representative of most citizens against party power. This was the case for the first Republic, it was the case for Havel, among other things, and so it is today. It's a good thing that any president of ours is active, as the people in our country expect the president to. And for myself, I would strive for a directly elected and preferably directly challenged president to have greater supervisory powers against parliamentary power. It's smiling when someone wants to be president and at the same time declares that they will be inactive and that they only take office as a protocol issue. If anyone wants to be a VIP wreathwriter, they should try it elsewhere. On the contrary, citizens in direct elections expect strong authority to represent them against party power. After all, our goal must be to strengthen democracy and control mechanisms that increase the responsibility of those who govern. There is no democracy in the Czech Republic, but what political scientists call party oligarchies. It's an unhealthy model that's turning into a corrupt clientelistic system. On the contrary, we should disrupt this model as much as possible and promote a direct, i.e. a real democracy. The real democracy is based on a balanced division of power between executives, legislation and citizens, with executives ruling according to the boundaries given by the legislators, and that is what the citizens, who, through popular vote, i.e. referendums, have control over both legislation and executives. This is a model that not only promotes the SPD but also largely the president. But such a model is a deadly danger to all who live from the current oligarchist corruption system. The 30th anniversary of November 17th is coming up. I know the vast majority escaped what the people on the streets wanted. No, it wasn't capitalism with criminal privatization, tunnellers, homeless people, and neither was the government of party elites. First of all, people wanted a direct democracy, they wanted social security and solidarity. They did not want to occupy other countries, but they wanted to dissolve the Warsaw Treaty as well as NATO and, among other things, wanted a direct election of the President. All of this and even more, despite the promises of new elites they stole from them, and in our country they did the exact opposite and not only that, and they still have the audacity to regard themselves as interpreters and heirs on November 17th. Ladies and gentlemen, I could take a step at the point of this stupidity in the lawsuit, but I think it's more important to think about her real sense of where she's going and what she's going against. Every judge knows that the President is not responsible for his duties under the Constitution and that the President is obliged to withdraw Minister Staněk, but also has the right to demand a good compensation for him and to wait until the Prime Minister offers him an acceptable successor for Staněk. The Minister is even opposed to the spirit of the Constitution on the basis of a coalition agreement, because the Minister appoints and refers the President to the Prime Minister's proposal, not according to the dictation of party bosses, or even on the basis of coalition agreements that have no support in the Constitution. I mention it again to show where the root of the dispute is, whether the President should be subordinate to the decisions of the parties and their conventions, or to his conscience, citizens and the Constitution. The President, whoever he is, must really be responsible only to the citizens and first of all to follow good manners, not to infect the party elites, whether government or non-governmental. The SPD will vote against the lawsuit, and on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, if you have a problem with the President, to give a chance to be decided by voters in democratic elections, and let us discuss the SPD's laws on referendums and on the direct election and recallability of the politicians who have been here for two years, and the other parties are blocking them here in the House. I would add that we also have a law here on the direct substantive responsibility of politicians and all those who manage public money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u11	Thank you, Mr President, to Vice-President Tomie Okamur, we will continue to be priority rights. I would remind you that there is not yet a debate, so it is not possible to make a point of fact, either by the appellants or by the rapporteur, because only in the current debate, in which the eight registered so far, will it be possible to fully accept all the items in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u12	Thank you. Good morning, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the senators. I'm going to try to divide my relatively short performance into two parts. The first part will be my personal consideration, and since I am a farmer, I am not a lawyer, so I am of course, because I am interested in the issue here, consulted the draft constitutional lawsuit with some lawyers, and I would like to share my opinion with you after this consultation with lawyers, not just constitutional ones. First of all, I wouldn't want to comment or comment on that activist-aggressive election speech by Senator Láska, full of untruth and nonsense. On the other hand, I think it is a good thing that the Senate has sent such a representative and that it may have opened its eyes to some other colleagues and colleagues. The hatred of President Zeman, it splashed all over him. And I'm completely wet, I'm sitting here, and I'm... I'm completely squirted with the hatred of the President of the Czech Republic. [[applause and entertainment in the hall]] I'm also careful, even though I wasn't sitting here all the time, but he was listening to Senator Golán's speech on the monitors. And there's one thing I've memorized from him that, actually, and it's in the gutter, I've verified that the purpose of the lawsuit, the constitutional lawsuit against the President of the Republic, is to protect social democracy. That's an interesting finding. That's the first time I've heard it. And it is a good thing that this has been said and that we know the true motivation for the draft constitutional lawsuit. However, colleagues, we should at the beginning of our debate discuss what is actually the purpose of the constitutional lawsuit against the President of the Republic. In my opinion, the aim of the 48 senators who are filing this suit is to get rid of President Miloš Zeman's mandate. For the first time, that was quite clear from the mouth of Senator Láska. This is a clear political objective almost two years after the presidential election. So what will the House decide today? About whether we like President Miloš Zeman? No. That was decided by the voters in 2018. We're supposed to decide if the president violated the Constitution in such a rude way that it's at the level of treason, colleagues, colleagues. Treason! And what, according to the Constitution, is treason? Let's ask this question. I looked at the Constitution this morning. And I will quote: "It is an act against the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic, as well as against its democratic order. " The Constitutional action is an extraordinary institute to address the emergency situation and should not be used in the normal political struggle. Because the punishment is a political death sentence. That's just the way it is. Trying to appeal a directly elected president seems to me like an attempt to change the outcome of a football game after it's over a long time ago. Everyone, the President's election ended in January 2018. You can't change the outcome. You're gonna have to accept that. For the record, I'm gonna give you a couple of numbers. My previous speaker, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura, has already mentioned them. 48 senators - and I won't be personal, unlike him, because if I were personal and comparing the votes of Senator Láska, Golán and me, I would lose. I've received the least preferential votes from these three politicians. However, 48 senators directly elected by our citizens, so they were voted by about 500,000 voters. Roughly. Counted through the thumb. And they want to get rid of the office of the directly elected President of the Republic, who was elected by 2 853 000 citizens. 2,853,000 voters. It needs to be made clear here that our senators, but not all of them, only those who don't like Miloš Zeman, want to rid him of the presidency this way. So these, colleagues, colleagues, were my personal opinions. And now, please briefly, on some legal analysis of the constitutional lawsuit, the proposal. First of all, I would like to say that the lawsuit is very inconspicuous, inconsistent and has no prescribed requirements. News of the Czech Press Office, news articles to be evidence of individual defendants, are not, colleagues, colleagues. They really aren't. And I have many, many experiences of my own. In one week, when we were discussing the case of Kapsch and you all laughed at me, 153 articles and news of the Czech News Agency came out about me that week. And that's the relevant evidence for the lawsuit based on our rare, esteemed fellow senators. Well, good luck to you. The President's actions shall be assessed in a totally inappropriate manner by the action. The application does not include a description of the legal consequences that would arise if the Constitutional Court complied with the application and thus stated by its statement that the President of the Republic committed a gross breach of the Constitution or any other part of the constitutional order. These consequences, according to the law of the Constitutional Court, are the loss of the Presidential Office and the capacity to regain it. Therefore, it can only be argued whether the purpose and purpose of the action was not to bring these legal consequences into the action, respectively. cover them up. But I have already said here that for the first time, Senator Láska's colleague has made it clear that the aim is the political death of the President of the Republic. And it's a good thing it sounded here. Let the citizens of the Czech Republic know who wants to get rid of Miloš Zeman's presidency here. Another thing I would like to say is that the action-defined acts are not, in my opinion, the intensity of gross violation of the Constitution, where the intensity would have to be similar to that of treason. A gross breach of the Constitution or constitutional order was added to the Constitution in 2013. Originally, then, it was only treason. [[10.50 hours]] There is no definition of gross violation of the Constitution or constitutional order. It does not exist, but given the penalty for this constitutional offense, the same as for treason, the need for the highest degree of seriousness of the constitutional offence can be clearly imported. There is therefore a need for a high degree of seriousness of the infringement. Even a gross violation of the Constitution should correspond with three protected interests, I have already mentioned them here, which we will find in the definition of treason, and that is the sovereignty of the Republic, its integrity and democratic order. In my view, the constitutional action has not shown a gross breach of any of these interests. I would also like to say that bringing an action should be linked to an immediate response to the alleged lawlessness of the President of the Republic's actions with the so-called high urgency. The constitutional action must always be brought immediately after a alleged breach of constitutional order by the President. The actions of the previous President's term of office, I believe, cannot be absolutely regarded as a violation of the Constitution when these are linked to the previous election period and the President's mandate, and moreover, his new mandate was legitimized by the elections and the 2.8 million votes and the voters of President Miloš Zeman probably knew when they voted for him, what he did in the last parliamentary term, how he acted, how he spoke, how he acted, and yet he was elected President of the Czech Republic. This time condition in the case of defendants acts A, B, C is completely missing here, I will not list them and repeat them, Senator Láska has defined them all in his introductory speech, because the president is now carrying out a new mandate, as I have already said, on the basis of a new election, and unless these actions have been sued by A, B, C until the end of the previous mandate, they are no longer indictable in my opinion. As far as acts D and F are concerned, neither do they fulfil the condition of urgency, i.e. an immediate response to the alleged misstep of the President of the Republic. Only G can this condition be found to be relatively fulfilled in terms of time immediacy, but the severity of this fact is completely absent, namely a gross violation of constitutional order. As far as H is concerned, it is an accumulation of minor debatable actions or actions by the President which have been done within its mandate. There was no departure from his Constitution for a defined framework of negotiations, where these cannot be qualified as a gross violation of constitutional order in any way. Even individual partial acts cannot, by their intensity, achieve the seriousness of the infringement of the Constitution, required by constitutional law for bringing a constitutional action. However, we have heard here in the performances that it has accumulated into one package and the package is, in the opinion of 48 of our senators, the serious violation of the Constitution of our country. In this context, it should be pointed out that the admissibility of the application for the G action would be only after the prior call for a so-called jurisdictional dispute. We know we've had this debate here in the past, in the past months, experienced, lived, survived. Thus, after the prior instigation of this jurisdictional action under the Constitutional Court Act, which (?) would cause the Prime Minister to press charges against the President of the Republic at the Constitutional Court, but this did not happen. This assumption has not been fulfilled, and therefore, even in this regard, I believe, the constitutional action is not open to discussion. Furthermore, it must be pointed out that none of the legislators has yet called the President's actions unconstitutional when the President of the Republic is constantly moving in the boundaries which the Constitution allows and does not prohibit. As can be seen from the resolution of the Constitutional Court on the constitutional action against President Václav Klaus of March 2013 - /quote - "is the task of the Constitutional Commissioner himself to formulate the wording of constitutional standards in such a way that they are clearly and clearly understood by all addressees'. All of them. And I am looking at my precious colleague, Professor Válková, at the moment, and I am asking her from this place, if she is going to perform today, so that she may take a professional look at this passage, because I am not able to discuss it with constitutional lawyers on this subject. The legislation, and therefore also the Constitution of the Czech Republic, must be formulated in such a way, I lay down my opinion that we all understand it. And that, colleagues, colleagues, is on us. To us, the senators, to think about it. He's here at the Chamber of Deputies of the Constitutional Commission. I don't know, but I suppose such a commission could be in the Senate. It would be good to sit down to this debate and see if the current Constitution reflects in all its aspects that we have a directly elected president here, citizens of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I would like to say that, in the event of action of hardened deeds, it is not possible to bring in breach of the Constitution by the President acting within the relevant legal standard in accordance with the lawful interpretation of its competences. To date, the professional public has not united on what the president can and cannot, virtually. must and may not, and it is completely absurd to put such alleged violation of the Constitution upon the President. There is still more than obvious disunity of opinion, which should be explained above all - Thank you for your help. [[Screams from the right of the hall: Constitutional Court. The speaker laughs, laughs and applause from the O.R.]] However, I have a different opinion on this, and I would like to say it if we are in a democratic debate. I believe that this should be a competent legislature, not a Constitutional Court. In essence, the constitutional action denies the right of choice and the role of the President as a representative of the executive power which has competence. The Act on the Direct Election of the President changed the original concept of the distribution of power in the 1992 Constitution when the position of President was effectively strengthened. The position of the President is no longer based on Parliament's will, but on the will of the people. On the contrary, if the President of the Republic were to appoint members of the Government without due consideration, such action could be put on the line for him. According to the interpretation of the Constitution, the President must comply with the Prime Minister's proposals, unless it is a case where their appointment would be contrary to constitutional order or general legislation. It is so clear that the President must consider whether the proposed person is appropriate humanely, morally, professionally, physically qualified, qualified. Otherwise, the president, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, might blindly name the person inappropriate and incompetent. In the hands of the President, the person proposed by the Prime Minister, after the previous sophisticated consideration of the President of the Republic, takes the oath. The President is responsible for this election and is the guarantor of such a member of the Government. [[11.00 hours]] It must be stressed that, according to Article 59 of the Constitution, it is part of the presidential promise that the Office will stand up for all the people and for its best knowledge and conscience. Turning the President of the Republic into a breach The Constitution is thus in direct conflict with the presidential promise as part of our constitutional order. So, in conclusion, let me give you a few fundamental opinions about this constitutional lawsuit. In my opinion, and I've already said that at the outset, the lawsuit is unnegotiable. The President's actions indicted have not been grossly violated by the Constitution. The comparison with treason - with treason - does not stand. The time condition is not fulfilled. Acts A, B, C from the first term of office can no longer be sued. Acts D, E, F do not fulfil the condition of immediate action. The President is constantly moving in traditional boundaries that do not depart from the Constitution. And the direct election of the President has substantially strengthened the President's position as a representative of the executive power, which is effectively accountable to the people. I've said that a couple of times. And the President is not responsible to Parliament, in accordance with his constitutional pledge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One apology, MP Petr Sadovský apologizes for today's meeting from 11 o'clock to the end of the day for family reasons. We are continuing with the speeches of Members with priority rights before the debate is opened. It's Mrs Valachová's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. The Social Democracy Embassy will not actively support the Senate's action against the President of the Republic. The following legal assessment, as well as the political assessment of the matter, leads us to this. Legal assessment. According to the Constitution, the House must agree to the action so that it can be assessed by the Constitutional Court. For example, the ústava has similar consent in the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, when the Senate must agree with the President's proposal for a constitutional judge. The consent of another constitutional actor, whether the Senate or the House of Constitutional Judges, to the action against the President of the Republic does not mean that the content of the proposal will not be evaluated and assessed. On the contrary. Another constitutional actor is there. We've gotten to know the lawsuit in detail. We consider the failure of the Constitution to name and not refer to ministers on a proposal from the Prime Minister. The president doesn't have that kind of power from the Constitution, and he can't. The direct election of the President and the strengthening of some of his powers do not concern his power over the government. On the contrary, this last major amendment to the Constitution was strengthened by the Prime Minister. The motion to appeal the Minister is his authority and the President of the Republic has the Constitution's duty to act. As well as a proposal to appoint a minister is the Prime Minister's authority. In both cases, it is the Prime Minister who executively governs the government and the Republic, and the government answers to the House. We are a parliamentary democracy. The Constitutional Court may decide, on the basis of a constitutional lawsuit, that the President is losing the presidency and the capacity to re-acquire it. The Constitutional action claims a gross violation of the Constitution. Most acts appear to be a telephone list of the sins of the President of the Republic in the level of different political views, ideologies or world visions. Most of the acts of the Assembly do not constitute a breach of the Constitution, let alone a gross breach of the Constitution. Although some in the constitutional lawsuit may fully correspond to the policy of social democracy and the membership of the parliamentary club, the constitutional lawsuit is not a means of competing on a political collapsing ground. These are elections in Parliament's democracy. The Constitutional suit against the President of the Republic, here we understand any president, considers the MP's club to be an extreme means of preventing or repeating a gross violation of the Constitution and is the last option where the ordinary means of political communication and the exercise of authority from the Constitution of individual constitutional actors are exhausted. However, for a violation of the Constitution, which the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club has no doubt, that is, not to mention and not to refer to ministers, one constitutionally significant circumstance is repeated, namely that the Prime Minister, who has constitutional authority to defend the Constitution and the position of the Government, has decided not to use these and has also created room for political diplomacy or possible political alliances between the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic by his actions. There was no legal action, on the contrary, the Prime Minister himself repeatedly acted in accordance with the President of the Republic's amended position. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister acted in political harmony. That's important. It is to act constitutionally in defending the government and its constitutional competences, and hence the nature of parliamentary democracy, precisely and primarily the Prime Minister. Now allow me to make a political comment. Suggestors say that no one stood up to the President of the Republic, only the Senate. I also hear and, of course, I am not pleased that social democracy is second-guessing parliamentary democracy. I have to radically reject both. No one, other than social democracy, has resisted the actions of the President of the Republic through constitutional or concrete political action in the past and no one has resisted and continued to defend the Constitution and the forms of parliamentary democracy through political losses as much as social democracy. The Constitution doesn't just protect itself by lawsuits. On the contrary. Constitutional actors, bodies and officials are to protect the Constitution and act accordingly. Social democracy is also part of the government to defend parliamentary democracy. Without her steps and with a different composition of the government, perhaps, or rather certainly - some speakers' speeches convince me of this - perhaps the practice of appointment and dismissal of ministers in the hands of the president has become common. But that did not happen. Just as there have been no other acts of the type of non-revocation of ministers. Minister Babiš (?) Minister Staněk was also dismissed by the President. Nor did it come to the exchange of the head of the previous government, with the government continuing to work except for the Prime Minister in the same composition. It didn't happen. And that, of course, didn't happen automatically. The main player who insisted on the President's constitutional procedure was social democracy. Let me conclude, then, that social democracy is convinced that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution for not naming and not calling off ministers during the term of office of this government. After all, they agree on this, and it's almost possible to say that this is all they agree on, constitutional authorities. The senators have refused to file such a single act of lawsuit. They did not go this way, during the preparation of the lawsuit, even after the action was brought by the polytheists. Here, referring to the fact that the action has already been brought. Social democracy will therefore work through the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Senate and the House to refine the competences of constitutional actors in the Constitution, including the President of the Republic, until the end of the term of office of this government. Parliamentary democracy is, at the same time, indisputable for social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u15	Thank you, Vice President Valachová. Petr Fiala, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, will be prepared by the President of the Farský Club. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, senators, honourable Members of the Government, we are here in such a special format that I think we should not continue to grow. And that is that only those who have priority rights are debating here, and the proper debate is not open. I think that we must return to these procedures on the grémium of the Chamber of Deputies and create room for all Members who are interested in speaking and having an interest in responding with equal rights here. I would be interested and therefore have the right to respond to some of my previous speakers. I will not do this, I will do it only in one case, Mr President, when I turn to President Tomio Okamura and ask him to speak for all the citizens who were then in the square and who expressed their political and civic will when he performs and evaluates the events of November 1989. So let them not speak for me and my friends, because we did not want to dissolve NATO in November 1989, we certainly did not want an all-embracing direct democracy in November 1989, and we certainly did not want a direct election of the President in November 1989. We wanted different things. We wanted freedom and democracy. We have freedom and democracy, and we are grateful for it, and I do not think that the President should give us these things and speak for all the citizens who were then in the square. I understand that President Okamura lives in his fictional world, in which one of the greatest enemies is a non-existent demoblock. I'm not taking his fantasies away from him, that's okay. But what I want to take away from him is to personalize the right to speak for people who did not want to dissolve NATO in November 1989, did not want democratic procedures directly, but wanted a functioning parliamentary democracy, but wanted freedom in particular. That's the point. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] I'm not gonna talk for a really long time, I'm gonna talk for a very short time, even though the lawsuit itself is a long time, and some of the performances we've heard here have been a long time. But I would like to remind you of one thing that seems essential to me and which, as I listened to my predecessor here at the speaker's desk, maybe not everyone is aware of enough, and that's what we're voting about here. And what is the constitutional role of the Chamber of Deputies in this matter. That's actually the content of my performance. We're not here to decide our constitutional lawsuit against the President of the Republic. The Chamber of Deputies has no competence to file a constitutional suit against the President of the Republic, and this is the competence of the Senate. I'm just reminding you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitution contains a constitutional lawsuit against the Senate. Not Parliament, the Senate. It also states that the Constitutional Court is assessing the Senate's constitutional lawsuit. Therefore, it does not consider a joint action by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, but it does consider an action by the Senate. This seems important to me, and I think it can also facilitate the decision-making of a number of colleagues. Because we are deciding in this particular context about this particular document. We, therefore, are not instigators of the lawsuit as the Chamber of Deputies. We do not serve it and our role, the role of the Chamber of Deputies, I understand, and so I think it is presented in the Constitution that we are in this process a kind of constitutional guarantee of the democratic system. We can ask ourselves the question - I am, of course, asking myself - whether we have reasons to use the insurance to turn it on or not, and let the constitutional lawsuit go on. I'm convinced we don't have the reasons to turn the insurance on. Of course, we can think about it, and many of us are doing this, that the arguments used in this lawsuit need to be inadequate or there are too many different qualities and in different, too long periods of time, that the argument is weak. That's how we can think. But I think we have a Constitutional Court that we can trust that what our fellow senators have prepared, the Constitutional Court can judge. I believe in the Constitutional Court. Or we may have doubts as to whether the Senate has lost democratic legitimacy in preparing the lawsuit for any reason, and it is up to us to remind him. I don't think that's the reason. I have no doubt about the Constitutional Court, I have no doubt about the legitimacy of the Senate, and this makes my decision very much easier, and I think it might make it easier for many of you to decide. I chose that word deliberately because - I think we have also made it quite clear publicly - we have preferred a different form of constitutional action in the Civil Democratic Party. And our senators supported a different form of constitutional lawsuit in the Senate debates - a one-handed lawsuit. We believe that she would have a better chance, and we believe that the strength of the argument would be much stronger. So we understand the doubt about the wording that's being prepared here. But, as I said, neither I nor my colleagues will question the legitimacy of the Senate, nor will I question the Senate's arguments and trust the Constitutional Court to judge the lawsuit with the utmost seriousness and responsibility. And I even have the hope that any outcome of the Constitutional Court will give the President, Prime Minister, but we, too, here in the Chamber of Deputies, will have some sort of guidance or boundaries, clearly stated, which borders must not be exceeded. And that's how I understand the Senate's lawsuit, and in this intent, in this end, this action has my support. And ladies and gentlemen, let's face it, such an attempt with all the shortcomings is certainly better than the unconstitutional subjection that the Prime Minister has shown towards the President, who has de facto removed the significant, essential constitutional competence to choose members of his government. I'm a conservative politician, I admit I'm not happy about this situation at all. But as a responsible politician, I feel that I have to and want to protect constitutionality, protect parliamentary democracy, and above all, I have to and want to protect the rules. And in this I see the sense of the Senate's constitutional action, in this I have faith in the Constitutional Court, which will judge, and therefore, together with our MP's club, I will vote in favour of allowing this assessment by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u17	I thank Vice-President Fial. Now Mr Farský will take the floor. Before I do, I have apologized to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Josef Hájek apologizes between 14 and 17 o'clock. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of the situation of 2013 because it has a lot to do with today's situation. That was the year in the Chamber of Deputies when the government coalition had a clear majority of 101 votes. This majority was presented to the President. So in a way, he jokingly asked us that if we had 101 signatures, he wanted them all notarized. The House didn't respond to that. And at that moment, the president did not respect the outcome of the election and appointed the government of Jiří Rusnok and his associates. The Chamber of Deputies responded in a fundamental way at the time, because it had a clear aim, to preserve parliamentary democracy and to maintain the position of the Chamber of Deputies. It may sound absurd, but that's just the way it is. The Chamber of Deputies could at that moment do nothing but dissolve. If at that moment she respected the fact that the President was to appoint an unelected government, and the Chamber of Deputies would operate until the time of the proper elections of 2014, at which point she would call this situation normal and in the future at any time feasible by the President. The House reacted the strongest in that moment in the possible way it had, with its dissolution, to defend the position of the Chamber of Deputies. [[11.20 hours]] We're in a very similar situation today. Whether it was 2017, or the summer of 2019, the President of the Prime Minister does not let the government as he wishes be composed, for which he is politically responsible, but determines who is to be in that government. Some members receive, some do not accept, some refuse to recall for a long time. The President takes over the Prime Minister's authority at that moment. The Prime Minister has a chance to defend himself. He can file a jurisdictional suit. If he filed it, maybe we wouldn't have to deal with this constitutional lawsuit here today. The Prime Minister has decided not to hand it over. And then there is only one emergency brake to prevent the president from simply rolling parliamentary democracy, and that is to let the Constitutional Court decide where the borders are. Today we are in a situation where there is a lawsuit, which has been supported mostly by the Senate, we are in a situation where we should have it judged by the Constitutional Court from my point of view and from the point of view of the Mayors and Independents Club. It is in the interests of the Chamber of Deputies. It is in Parliament's interests. It is in the interests of the future of every Member and anyone who goes to the elections in the Chamber of Deputies. Because if you decide to dismiss a constitutional lawsuit today, you will decide for the Constitutional Court. Not the ones who let her go to the Constitutional Court and leave her The Constitutional Court will decide where the boundaries are so that the arguments that were going on here and going on can be ended someday. To give us a clear view of the institution, the institution that is the only one who can interpret the Constitution. If you don't support a constitutional lawsuit today, you're ruling for the Constitutional Court. And what do you say at that moment? That you don't mind that the president will not respect the outcome of the elections after the next parliamentary elections, or perhaps before. That you don't mind putting anybody in charge of forming a government. He doesn't even have to be the person who took part in the election. That you don't mind that such a government will rule for six months, a year without trust. Today, if you reject this constitutional suit, you're sending this to the president. If you reject this constitutional suit, you'll send a message to the president: do whatever you want after the election, name whoever you want. What may seem advantageous to you today, because President Zeman repeatedly says that, in essence, regardless of the outcome of the next elections, he will entrust himself with the establishment of the government of Andrej Babiš, he can also easily oppose you. Today, by making your decisions, you theoretically presume the President's decision in two years' time, by establishing a new government. But with this subscription, you sell parliamentary democracy, because you, when he exceeds his powers - and constitutional lawyers agree on that, the question is whether it's considered rude or just a violation of the Constitution - you just confirm it and say it's okay and that's how it's supposed to go. If he decides in the election that he won't name the assumed why not, at least among you supposed winners of Andrej Babiš's election, and he chooses - let me scare you a little - he'll choose me, you won't do anything about it. Because that's what the president's gonna decide, and because you're not gonna vote in favour of bringing a lawsuit to the Constitutional Court today. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Yes, I have used a very absurd example precisely to open your eyes as much as possible. Because you do not decide on the next two or three years of your stay in the House and in office, but you decide what parliamentary democracy will look like for the next twenty or more years in the Czech Republic. Please don't hurt her. To the performance by Mr. Faltýnek, who said how terrible it would be if it got to the Constitutional Court, how the President would lose his office - I would not have anticipated it at all. It surprised me how much he was afraid in his speech that the constitutional lawsuit would happen to end up in the Constitutional Court, so that the Constitutional Court might not decide that the President would be relieved of office. I can't tell. And I don't even think it can end that way. I was surprised how scared Mr. Faltýnek is after reading the constitutional lawsuit. I will certainly vote in favour of a constitutional lawsuit that the senators have drawn up and approved to grant to the Constitutional Court. I will not decide by my vote whether the President acted correctly, whether he violated the Constitution or violated the Constitution. I give my vote to the Constitutional Court that it will be his decision. And I will respect his decision, too. Please do the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u19	Thank you. Mr Špičák votes with replacement card number 15. Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip is in priority, followed by President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u20	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will start off a little unconventional. I think we are ahead of us, and in a way, Mr President Petr Fiala has said in his speech that we have a step ahead of us that quite clearly states whether we will give or not agree to the motion for an action against the President of the Republic to go to the Constitutional Court. That's reality. We have a decision before us whether we have the boundaries that have been mentioned here, to set us as legislators, or to entrust them to the power of the Constitutional Court. Yes, the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial system. He's not a typical part of the jurisdiction. Sometimes we tell him that it is an authority of law, that it can abolish the law, and that it is therefore not a complete transfer from that legislative power to the power of justice. But, on the other hand, who among us, if we want to protect parliamentary democracy, will say that they will alibisly get rid of their right to set certain limits by law, and they will also demand the power of executive and judicial power. I don't want to do this. And with me a number of others. I have no reason for the Constitutional Court to decide for me. Really none at all. As far as the lawsuit itself is concerned, let me say that I have no intention of commenting on the points at points A, B, C and H. In A, B, C these are acts which are appointed by a constitutional action which took place before 27 January 2018, and the Constitution of the Czech Republic states in its Article 2 that the people are the source of all state power and exercise it through the authorities of the legislative, executive and judicial powers, and that these acts cannot be assessed. Every senator, every MP, even if issued for prosecution, for example, must be issued again after the election, because every legislative body, whether it is the Czech Parliament, the Austrian, German, European Parliament, simply has to decide again whether the people have decided that they have regained immunity or not. Yes, these deeds are unnegotiable. They're unnegotiable. And don't be mad at me. [[11.30 hours]] Senator Láska talked about how someone in the Senate would justify it. And I can't imagine going back to university in Brno, to law school, and rehearsing the theory of state and law, or constitutional law, and saying that I forgot that the people were the source of all power and that I didn't understand this. Really, I have no intention of repeating it. And that some who made up the constitutional lawsuit didn't get it, that's their problem. But don't make me stand before the Constitutional Court and explain that I have advanced there so-called. a constitutional action which, in an absolute manner, does not respect Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure; 1 Constitution of the Czech Republic. I'm not gonna do that because I appreciate my education and I have no intention of firing him because of some political avant-garde of a few people. As for the appointment of President of the Republic, I cannot imagine that any of the presidents of the Czech Republic, whether it was Václav Havel, Václav Klaus, or Miloš Zeman, would want to become autograph machines. If anyone imagines that co-signing means that one has more rights than the other, he's wrong. A huge mistake. It's not an automatic signature. Please, let's not ask constitutional officials for an automatic. Let's ask them for a fundamentally, well-documented decision. Reasoned. Let us ask them to prepare this decision thoroughly. Let's ask for a meeting. Not that one day we make a decision, and the next day it's true. It can't really be that way in politics. And if someone really despised parliamentary democracy and expressed their unwillingness to appoint someone, it was Václav Havel, who absolutely did not respect the Chamber of Deputies from 1998 to 2002, which Václav Havel proposed to ing. František Brožík will appoint Vice President of the Supreme Audit Office. Václav Havel didn't sign it, he didn't comment, those who today blame Miloš Zeman for his mistakes, so at that time they kept silent and applauded Václav Havel. But that was contempt for parliamentary democracy, not the Prime Minister's proposal, which is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. This was the staffing proposal of the Chamber of Deputies of that particular term of office. We have also not dealt with this in a constitutional lawsuit against the President of the Republic. There was no reason. Because we wanted negotiations to achieve that there would not be a crisis in the constitutional system and a dispute between constitutional institutions, which can always be replaced by negotiations. Yes, this had to be resolved only after the new elections, because the new Chamber of Deputies elected in 2002 does not have to take over the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies prior, the principle of discount in the constitutional system for the Chamber of Deputies, contrary to the principle of continuity in the Senate. And when we asked - not that we were yelling at Václav Havel, we asked politely Václav Havel to tell us whether he intended to appoint František Brožík, so when the letter was received, he loosened the hands of the new Chamber of Deputies, which was not bound by the previous resolution, took him into its political material and elected another candidate for Vice President of the Supreme Audit of the Office, which was then appointed. Yes, this is also an opportunity to act among ourselves within the constitutional institutions. The Senate has taken a different route to present its own not because of the inability to respect another opinion, which is mine. the content of the whole H. constitutional lawsuit, which is nothing more than when I have an opinion on something else, so the one who has an opinion different from mine must be brought to justice. Where were we? Is this about the question of the right to your own opinion? Freedom of speech rights? Can't the President of the Republic really give his opinion, and only the senators have the right? Or someone else? I really don't understand. Why are they doing this? If the people who actually filed that constitutional lawsuit really think that this will be accepted by the company, that it will connect society, that it will mean some sort of shift in the constitutional system, they're wrong, because the right to their own opinion is hard to take. And I'm not mad that they have a different opinion. I'm angry that they're using the constitutional lawsuit system and asking the House for consent to the constitutional lawsuit so that I deny the right to an opinion. I'm not gonna do it, and I'm not gonna vote for something like that. So let me get this straight. This constitutional action is not a text that the Chamber of Deputies should move to the Constitutional Court. Again, I do not intend to assume my own authority in parliamentary democracy, I do not intend to take anybody's right of opinion, and I do not intend for parliamentary democracy to be distorted in a way that shows that someone should do something immediately without serious consideration, without expressing clearly his opinion on the matter, on a person, on a particular person. Because that's what personnel decisions are all about. And I think that we should perhaps take one point in the Constitutional Commission of the Chamber of Deputies as another definition of competence between the Senate and the House. We are often placed in a situation where the Senate, which, yes, has no relation to the state budget, seeks to impose its will on us by its amendments, which is important for the approval of the state budget, which is important for the functioning of the economic system. The creators of the Constitution - and here among us I think there is only one of those Members from 1992 to 1996 - knew very well why the second Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic should not affect the state budget. Because the regional interest that would prevail could tear down the whole fragile system that will compromise in the Chamber of Deputies in that particular year for the following year. Whatever the ODS government, social democracy, whatever coalition it was, it was always respected when it comes to the state budget and its parts, including the laws that have to be passed to the House by 30 September, so that the state budget can be built on them, the second chamber did not speak into it. Or, at least and possibly, the clubs agreed to make sure that this could happen at all, that the legislative process should not be delayed and that it should be. I was in favour of discussing the constitutional lawsuit in the Chamber of Deputies. I never thought it would be appropriate for the senators to fail and just let the three-month deadline fail their constitutional lawsuit with the fact that we didn't deal with it. And for one simple reason - to clarify the competence. For a long time, I have sought the law on the intercourse of both chambers. It was one of the shortcomings of the constitutional system. We corrected it after basically 25 years of the Constitution. From the constitutional system, we're only short of a referendum law, it's already been recalled. But that's the debate we're supposed to have with the Senate. Not a lawsuit that, don't be mad at me, I wouldn't want to represent as an attorney before the Constitutional Court because I would have to be ashamed of its content. The KSČM Club will not support the House of Deputies agreeing to a constitutional suit against the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u21	Thank you. For work reasons, from 14.30 to 19 o'clock, Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologises. President Radim Fiala, President Michálek and President Výborný are now signed up with priority rights prior to the opening of the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the problem of filing a Senate suit against the President of the Republic with just a narrow view of Czech politics, I would have to say, first of all, that we are criminally wasting our time discussing the political vanity of colleagues from the Senate who seem to have nothing better to do. We're wasting time on what we should be doing for the voters. For the citizens of this country. But the situation is a little different after all. If we look at the motion for an action in a broader political context, then we will find that it fits into a series of events that are taking place today on a significant spectrum of world policy. Since many legal analyses of the entire lawsuit have already been made here today, and it is likely that it will still be mentioned, let me address the broader context. In the UK, which is the cradle of European and global democracy, today we are experiencing a political crisis quite deliberately induced by people who refuse to respect the outcome of the referendum and refuse to allow the possibility of resolving this crisis through democratic parliamentary elections. In the United States, considered a pillar of freedom, an attempt is being made today to call off the elected president. In many countries, media and protest campaigns are organized, the sole purpose of which is to deny the outcome of the elections if it is not appropriate, to appeal the government and to influence the country's policies in an undemocratic way. I'm using the concept of politicizing. In the case of the Czech Republic, this means that an organized network of activists - and as some of their experts say - would decide to make decisions in the Czech Republic: we need to get 3.5 percent of the population on the streets - and not voters in democratic elections. So what is it about politics today? This week, America's President Donald Trump described it very well in his appearance at the UN. This is a clash of globalists and patriotic forces in individual countries. Patriots and patriots who refuse to give up their national interests and turn society into a globalised mass of labor and consumers. Globalists don't need a real democracy. That's why she's running low. Even in the area of the European Union, because they have seized the European cooperation project. That is why they are today emphasizing politics, opposed to referendums, direct elections and rebuttals of politicians. The referendum and the direct choice of politicians are things that complicate their ability to manipulate democracy. The basic tool for handling democracy is a system of political non-profit organizations with a political programme that has infiltrated the government. They infiltrated it to thwart election results and effectively ensure that the Czech state is subordinate to transnational interests regardless of any outcome of the election. The approval of this action, which we are about to discuss today, is particularly outstanding compared to the steps taken by President Miloš Zeman's predecessors in his office. First of all, I am thinking of the steps of the first Czech President Václav Havel. Every objective and unbiased political observer must say that President Zeman uses his powers very widely, but does not violate the Constitution's boundaries. The only and dare I say the fundamental political sin of the current president is that he is politically independent in his actions, because he has a strong mandate from his constituents. He is independent of the backstage political cabinet and is only able to make decisions based on his political responsibility and his conscience as defined by the President's oath at the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This is an unforgivable sin in the eyes of the globalist lobby, for these people are destroying everything they cannot control. That's why they're crying about allowing the president to choose directly. That is why they are suing today and would like to call off the directly elected president. There is no doubt that the political conflict that the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump, spoke of will deepen. Time will show very well that it will be a clash of fundamental and very sharp. Each politician in this country will have to make it clear whether he wants this country to have a future, whether it wants this country to be a property of the Czech nation, or represents foreign interests and wants to serve these foreign transnational interests. Today's vote on the motion that came to the Senate is one of the lakmus papers, who and where, in my opinion, what political position is at stake in this matter. The SPD will defend our national and state roots, we will also defend fundamental democratic principles, and therefore the President-elect directly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u23	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much hate to see political arguments here, because that is not what we are discussing here. Indeed, the purpose of this action is not based on a party's policy, whether it is the SPD or the ODS or any other party, to decide on the proposal that the Senate has made to us. We should strive for maximum objectivity, not politics. And we should not build our decisions on how the President of the Republic, Miloš Zeman, has spoken inappropriately somewhere, or what politics he is promoting, or whether he is moving well in the maneuvering space that the Constitution gives him, or whether he is violating the principles of political culture somewhere. And we shouldn't primarily measure votes here in different types of elections. That is what I think is really undignified and completely irrelevant to discussing a constitutional lawsuit. We should take this honestly, as the Constitution speaks of a gross violation of the Constitution, and we should take into account the established constitutional convention. I will therefore begin by remembering that it is not entirely appropriate and appropriate to compare the legislation that was here under the President of the Republic of Václav Havel and Václav Klaus. For it was in 2012 that the amendment to the Constitution was introduced, which was the substance of gross violation of the Constitution. Until then, it was not possible to call the President of the Republic to account for gross violations of the Constitution, but which did not reach the intensity of treason. So in this situation, the situation is significantly different. Therefore, in order to make an honest decision, we should consider whether there has been a gross breach of the Constitution, in our view. For me, in particular, the two acts mentioned in the action referred to us by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic are crucial. And now I'm really trying not to take into account those issues that I think are more of a violation of political culture and certain dignity, which belong to the office of the President of the Republic. The first of them, which is constantly mentioned in public space, are delays in recalling, which have exceeded a reasonable limit. According to Article 74 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the President of the Republic will withdraw a member of the Government if the Prime Minister proposes it. I think, in order to understand this provision correctly, it is necessary to look at the commentary on the Constitution. [[11.50 hours]] I will quote here, and from this I am also based, a commentary on the Constitution, which is in ASPI. The author is Brno's lawyer Pavel Molek, who states: The procedure for the appeal of a member of the government is one of the examples where the President of the Republic acts only as a proverbial notary, who confirms taxes that he himself cannot influence. Here, this tax is the Prime Minister's proposal, which constitutes a sufficient and necessary condition - and the only constitutionally foreseeable condition - to withdraw a member of the government. However, in the current adjustment, the appeal of a member of the Government is practically fully in the hands of the Prime Minister. And if he proposes his appeal to the President of the Republic, the President has no discretion as to whether he will actually do so. This is already due to the nature of the government itself, in which its disposition, both positive and negative, emerges from its presidency, with whom it wants to have on its team. He cannot be so forced to continue to suffer someone against his will. Similarly, Mikule, Professor Mikule, constructs the duty of the President of the Republic to comply and dismiss a member of the government without unnecessary delay. To this end, we merely add that unnecessary delays in this procedure are certainly not possible negotiations between the President of the Republic with the Prime Minister and a specific minister or other essential actors whether the Prime Minister insists on his proposal. However, this temporary conciliation role is the only thing that can do beyond the simple obligation of the proposal to comply, and if it fails in this conciliation role and the Prime Minister does not take back his proposal, the President must withdraw the member of the Government without delay. So I think, on the one hand, it certainly is wrong that the role of the President of the Republic is being questioned, that he has some room for manoeuvre in this negotiation if he receives a proposal from the Prime Minister. On the other hand, it must be accepted that, if the proposal is there and this negotiation does not lead to reconciliation, the Prime Minister can no longer continue to think about it. That's what I think is the only way to proceed constitutionally. I would like to remind you that, as a result of the delays with the withdrawal of the Minister of Culture, the conservation of the spa in Teplice, owned by Mr. Jaroslav Třešňák, which gave Mr. Zeman three million crowns for the campaign, was abolished. Mr. President of the Republic already 12. 7. Failed in these negotiations, did not reach a revision of the Prime Minister's position, and yet delayed until the end of July, with a view to fulfilling his constitutional duty. So I believe that, in this respect, the President of the Republic has taken advantage of the maneuvering space and has subsequently committed himself to delaying the position of a man who was close to him under political agreements and who, by coincidence, complied with the sponsor of the President of the Republic just before the end of his mandate. The second act, which I consider to be a violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, not merely a violation of political culture or some unwritten rules, is a violation of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, according to which judges are independent in the performance of their duties and their impartiality must not be threatened. We discussed this matter on the subcommittee of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which was convened on my initiative and where we stated that the independence of justice had not been violated, as a result of the fact that those judges had their own moral integrity and did not allow themselves to intervene in the conduct of their judicial activities. At the same time, we have also called on the power of the executive not to continue in these ways to influence the decision-making of independent courts. I would like to quote a few fundamental statements which I consider to be very problematic, by Dr. Baxa, former Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court: I will give you a position, you give me a decision. The President of the Republic reiterated his statement that he could see me as President of the Constitutional Court and continued to discuss the case of an action brought against him by university professors and Charles University because he had not appointed them as professors. If the former President of the Supreme Administrative Court makes such serious accusations, I think the Constitutional Court should consider it. After all, we cannot allow high constitutional functions such as those of the President of the Constitutional Court to become the subject of business, so that the President of the Republic meets judges and pressures them to ensure that they are granted in their courts. So I consider this the second act of violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It must be said that both of these acts took place during the current parliamentary term and can therefore be assessed. I believe that maintaining our own supporter to serve as Minister of Culture with the aim, or at the same time affecting decisions in favour of the President of the Republic's sponsor, and trading in the position of head of the Constitutional Court is a gross violation of the Constitution, and that is why I, as well as our MP, will be voting in favour of the action containing these acts being referred to the Constitutional Court for a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u25	Thank you, and with priority right before the debate, President Excellent is signed in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to begin by saying that I consider it a relatively unfortunate situation where we are speaking here with priority rights and when it is not possible for some statements that, in my opinion, do not contribute to the cultivated debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - and I do not understand these emotional statements by the chair of the ANO club of Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, I find some completely unnecessary. And I note that the Rules of Procedure make it clear that the Member's factual remark should aim at what has been said at the moment, rather than commenting on something after three hours. I therefore do not understand why, in this first part of the debate, i.e. a debate with priority rights, these factual comments can no longer be heard. I would consider it logical, because the Member has the right to comment on what will be said here from the counter on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. However, let us go to the point that we are discussing here. Today's proposal for a constitutional lawsuit, and I would like to stress that, in my opinion, it is not a test of our loyalty to Miloš Zeman. It's not even an evaluation of his work, it's not an assessment of his sins. On the contrary, we are in a very special situation. I mean, I'm not happy about this situation, and I don't want to have any fight with Miloš Zeman or anyone else here. And there is no argument here, which has repeatedly been raised here today, about the weight of the mandate of Miloš Zeman and others, which should be based on the number of voters who supported him. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this is completely indifferent. Weight, the power of anyone's mandate is not dependent on the number of voters, but on the fact that he was actually elected in democratic elections. And I would very much like all constitutional officials to respect the rules of the game. Who else should do so, who else should set an example for the public, for our children, for our families? All the time and sometimes from the mouth of some even malicious questioning what was quite clear and indisputable a few years ago, I consider a very dangerous trend for our entire society. The action under discussion today, which I am convinced of - and the entire KDU-ČSL parliamentary club - is actually a helpful step for the future. It is a helpful step towards respect for the Constitution, fundamental principles of division of power and competences of individual constitutional actors. We do not want to continue to have to deal with what is repeatedly returning to us with the current president. And it is a pity that we spend so much time here with Miloš Zeman and the association around him, that we do not focus on improving the quality of life of Czech families, that we do not solve Czech education problems quickly, that we do not solve faster construction of transport infrastructure, that we do not solve the outrageous situation with executions in the Czech Republic, the problems of Czech agriculture and rural areas, and I could continue and on. [[12.00 hours]] The fact that this is precisely because of our efforts to discuss this motion for a lawsuit will not stand. Unfortunately, even in the last few days, the head of state has shifted to a plane where it is no longer possible to remain silent, and it is our responsibility not to go beyond silence. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are experiencing absurd moments. We often feel that all possible limits, both conceivable and unthinkable, have been exceeded. Publicly given promises do not apply, the biggest interference in the conduct of law enforcement agencies is announced publicly and in advance, governments and ministers rule here without the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, the state's highest representative is often practicing foreign policy without clear coordination with foreign policy represented by the government. And since we already have a situation like this, let's not count on anyone to sort it out for us. It will not solve, the solution is up to us and our responsibility to the citizens of the Czech Republic, our responsibility to the Constitution of this State. I therefore consider it right to exercise constitutional authority and to have the President's actions assessed by the Constitutional Court. Miloš Zeman does politics the way he's always done it. He uses all the possibilities, the gaps, the cracks, the double meanings to get his way. It is clear that with gradual action, it is trying to move our system of parliamentary democracy to the half-president system. Yes, the president is after power and rewinding the political playground in his favor. And unfortunately, I can't shake the impression that they're actually having fun with politics. But he forgets that he has a different role to play, the role of president, from whom something completely different is expected: dignity, discretion, devotion to the principles and rules given by the law and the Constitution, preference of the interest of the state over self-interest. An example is expected of him for us, for our children, and he is expected to be interested in the future of our society, our nation and our state. That is the kind of president I would like to wish our country and the whole KDU-ČSL along with me. Miloš Zeman wasn't that president, he isn't, and unfortunately he isn't. KDU-ČSL will therefore support the draft constitutional lawsuit, as it has been referred to us by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, precisely so that every other president can know what his role is, how far he can go, how much he or she can demolish, delay, refuse, veto, sometimes maybe sabotage, and vice versa, to know what the President of the law and the Constitution has, and must, what he or she is committed to, and what he or she will be responsible for. It's a clear situation. And I want to point out here that we are not in the role of judges. We here do not make a statement or a decision about guilt and punishment of anyone, not even Miloš Zeman. We're more in the role of some imaginary switcher here. The train that came to us from the Senate can be moved and switched either to the depot, where the entire draft constitutional lawsuit will remain parked forever, or, on the contrary, to move the switch where it is, it means to the Constitutional Court, which alone can decide on this matter. I may have some, perhaps even well-founded, reservations about the drafting of a constitutional lawsuit, as the Senate has advanced it to us. I can discuss whether some of the acts described here are indeed a serious violation of the powers of the head of state, but two things are quite clear from my point of view, and ultimately from what constitutional capacities say. The appointment of Rusnokův's government in a situation where the House was a clear government majority was a manifest violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Similarly, Article 74 of the Constitution states that the President of the Republic will call off a member of the Government if the Prime Minister proposes it. And when we look, and we all know the recent history of recalling and not recalling the Minister of Culture, it is clear that the President of the Republic has not acted here as the Constitution commands him. Again, we're not judging here, but we're helping here. We're helping for all the next term. Only the Constitutional Court has a decision as to what the distribution of the exercise of the state of power should be, in this case, one component of the executive power, namely the President of the Republic. And what would that do for us, ladies and gentlemen? We and no one else would have to deal with those eternal disputes about the competence of the head of state in the future. We'll manage with the current president, more or less, better or worse. But I would like, I would very much like us all to respect the laws in our democratic state and thus be an example to the public. I wish we had a president who knows what he can do, what he must and respects a functioning parliamentary democracy. And unfortunately, as I was saying, we are in a quite extraordinary situation where it seems necessary for these barriers to the presidency to be interpreted and confirmed by the highest authority. And that, in this case, is not, as President Faltýnek said, a competent legislator, it is nonsense, we all know that, but the only possible authority is the Constitutional Court. KDU-ČSL Members, like all KDU-ČSL senators present on the floor of the Upper House of Parliament, will support this proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Court. KDU-ČSL is aware of the responsibility towards our company today and in the future. We want to live in a country where the constitution is not a ripping calendar, where the law is not bent over the knee by constitutional actors, as they please, or as it suits him and his power interests and struggles. That's why I repeat, we don't judge, but we help. We are helping to keep the future of our country built on the principles of the rule of law and respect for democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u27	Have a nice noon. So now I have no more priority rights requests, so I will open a general debate. To Senator Tomáš Goláň. You asked for a word. As a plaintiff, you have no right of priority, so I will recommend a factual remark, or you will be up to the eleventh in the order of the general debate. So, factually, but only after Vice-President Pikal, because you have to respond to someone. So prepare a two-minute performance tops when Vice-President Pikal is performing. This is true for you senators, that in fact you can respond continuously for two minutes. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to comment on what has come up here, so it is sad that there has been some debate in which other Members have not had equal rights and could not respond. I would recommend to all my colleagues that, like me, they apply to a debate with priority rights, not before it. I've already logged in 24. Nine at one o'clock, and I'm getting off now. And before I start my speech, I would like to apologize to all Members who did not meet the term of an expert round table which took place on Monday. I completely understand that Monday is the parliamentary day to be in the offices, and I certainly don't blame anyone for not being able to come to that table for that reason. Unfortunately, we have not been able to find another suitable term between the date of the constitutional committee's negotiations and today's negotiations. There was a transmission, a record from the round table, and some conclusions were sent out to you, so I believe it wasn't useless and you'll all study it. Now to the point. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the public, Miloš Zeman is my President. He is president of all of us left to right, the whole Czech Republic, above all president of this government. That's right, we can disagree, we can protest it, but that's all we can do about it to borrow the words of a classic. We may disagree, in particular, with the way in which he carries out his presidency, which we will certainly disagree on here, but that is not entirely the subject of today's negotiations. [[12.10 hours]] In accordance with the Constitution and the laws, the President has succeeded in a democratic direct election with the help of a reasonably equal and fair campaign and has promised to maintain this Constitution and the laws of this country. That promise has been mentioned here several times, and I don't think I'm gonna quote it at this point. But because in the democratic Republic, in the rule of law, the dictatorship of the majority does not rule, but it is the rule of law, and that is what we are talking about here today, about the fact that there are laws and rights that apply to all, as well as the President, to whom the office grants unnegligible powers and the full irresponsibleness of the office, should not be entirely developed from all actions, but should be accountable to the Constitution and to the laws, as he is responsible to his constituents, as has been said here. And the only exception to the President's irresponsibleness is a constitutional lawsuit, and that is why if it is acknowledged that the President has stepped out of his power or that he is somehow crossing the Constitution in a rough way, then it is necessary to act. I don't think we have any other option at this point as a parliamentary chamber. The purpose of the constitutional lawsuit is to distrust the President, actually, under two conditions. Firstly, if the President is not acting in accordance with the Constitution, or if the treason decomposes the integrity or democratic establishment of the State, and also if we and the senators in Parliament are not in agreement with these steps, which could be interpreted as a violation of the Constitution, we do not agree. Well, first of all, the works. There is a deed to not calling off a member, and there is a question of the appointment and maintenance of governments without trust. These, in my opinion, are indisputable acts where there is a violation of the Constitution, whether directly by her literature or by the sense where the government is to be responsible to the House, not to the President. Other categories are then some interpretations about the demise of the Prime Minister not being his personal demise, not the demise of the entire government, or not the appointment of ministers. Here I also see a shift in constitutional order, as we know it, but it must be noted that these steps were possible because of a certain weakness of prime ministers, or government, which allowed the President to move these boundaries in such a way. However, if we, as political representatives, do not agree with this shift, we must respond and I see no other option than a constitutional lawsuit at the moment. Another category then is the act of influencing the power of the court, which was commented by others here, so I will not add anything to that. And the last thing I would mention and consider to be somewhat proven and important about this lawsuit is breaking the law. It may seem that the infringement cannot be a gross violation of the Constitution, but the President clearly promises to respect it when taking office, and I therefore consider it good to mention it. It is a proposal for a candidate to the Council of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, which does not comply with legal requirements, and then ignore any further action so that the Council can be properly occupied, and thus is in fact threatened by the functioning of this office. Another, similar thing is then not naming professors, through a court decision. The government is responsible for these matters, according to the letter of the Constitution, but I think that the President's actions also have a role to play. So much for works that I think are certainly sufficient and obvious to make a breach of the constitutional framework possible. The second question is whether the actions of moving our constitutional order towards a system of semi-president or towards a system where the president and the government responsible for the composition of the government are in agreement with him, whether these matters bother us. It can be argued that this is a necessary consequence of the direct election of the President, who gave him a greater mandate. However, I would not like us to be so moved by the importance of the Constitution by changing something, but by not making it a legal or constitutional decision, or by suffering this silence. So there were no changes to the Constitution's powers, and perhaps it was our predecessor's fault that they did not respond to the change in the direct election, either, by clarifying the President's powers. But I would lean towards the fact that the constitutionalist at that point did not want the President's powers to move forward to the fact that he could intervene more and more proactively in the composition of the government than would correspond to the pure letter of the Constitution and constitutional interpretation before. So today we are faced with a political decision whether to move our constitutional framework, by moving our parliamentary democracy somewhere else, whether we agree with it or whether it bothers us now and in the future. There were still some things mentioned about the individuality of the works, etc. The Constitutional Court will deal with every single act separately, so if one of these acts seems to you to be a violation of the Constitution, probably rude, then I would ask you to vote in favour of the constitutional lawsuit so that the Constitutional Court can deal with them individually and individually assess them how they will certainly do it. And then I would like to turn to those who claim that this constitutional lawsuit is legal nonsense, marketing exhibition, illiteracy, campaign and so on. If this lawsuit is so stupid to you, I ask you to support it so that the Constitutional Court can turn it down, put it on the plaintiffs' heads, and make it impossible. By all their intentions in doing this, I think you'll cut your campaign perfectly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u29	Now, on the point of fact, Senator Tomáš Goláň. Your two minutes, Senator. Please, you have the floor. And she will be prepared with the priority right of Secretary Alena Schillerová and subsequently Mrs Pekarová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u30	Thank you. I'm not gonna welcome everyone here anymore. I'm gonna run fast. I will respond to Mr. Faltýnek's Chairman of the club. Through Mr President, I would like to tell him that the Senate has a permanent commission to work with the Constitution, which means that such an institute also exists in our country. I'd like to explain to all of you what the Senate is. Probably not many of you were there, but there are 81 winners in the Senate. There everyone goes with their own person, with their own personality, and those parties are second place. That means saying that this is a political matter in the Senate, you're based on what you're experiencing here, but it's definitely not there. Next thing. Being a part of a demo block is a complete demagogy, because I'm an absolutely independent person who pays for all his electoral expenses, pays for everything himself, and by becoming a senator as one of the biggest tax experts, I don't need to be anything more. If the president is here or anyone else is here, I will have no benefit whatsoever. About the individual things. When we look at history, the United States mentioned here, let's see what's going on in the United States today. The impeachment starts because of one phone conversation, and we're referring here to the oldest democracy, and here we have a few of those deeds. I want to say so much for a multi-action lawsuit that if you say a single act would be better, then that one act is there. He's there, he's listed, and if the other acts aren't discussed by the Constitutional Court, the one in particular, he's going to deal with it, so it doesn't matter if it's a single act or more deed. I would also like to say to Mr Faltýnek, through, of course, Mr President, that he remembered only one part of my speech about social democracy, but he forgot what I said at the end: let us conduct this debate professionally, politically and let us not attack personally. What he did here was a personal assault on Senator Láska here. I would like to say very quickly to compare the electoral votes of Senator Láska and the President. I, for one, have 110,000 voters. [[Time!]] The President has 8.5 million. It's incomparable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u31	I will now ask for a performance with the priority right of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová and Mrs Markéta Pekarová will prepare herself. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Gentlemen of the senators, ladies and gentlemen, I did not mean to perform and I will speak very briefly. I sit here as a member of the government, I consider it my duty, I listen very carefully to discussions and arguments. I'm not gonna be personal with anyone at all, but all the time I've been sitting here, I've been getting dozens of messages from people, from strangers I don't know. They're texting me, texting me, e-mailing me, texting me. It's a kind of message: how can you stand it? There's just not a single message in support of this lawsuit. There are messages to support the president and messages like how taxpayers' money is being spent here, like empty straw beatings. And I even dare - I don't use hard terms - one of them is quoting: "It's opposition and senatorial filth." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u33	There. Now, the general debate. So we will continue with the general debate. I'm going to ask for a performance by Mrs Markéta Pekarová. Now I've got one factual one, it's from Mr Čižinský, so Mrs Pekarová will give you room. Come on, you've got two minutes to make a point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u34	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the Minister. It really seems unacceptable to me, firstly, to attack the Senate like this and, secondly, to attack the free debate in Parliament like this. It always ends with a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u35	Another point of fact, I have the chair of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek. So far the final de facto. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u36	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but you really can't say that this is filth, senator scum, about our upper chamber of Parliament. This is indeed an outrageous use of the expression on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that the ministers of the government should really use a dictionary that is dignified for the negotiations of this Chamber. It's really undignified, what you're doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u37	There. There are other factual points that have come up, namely two. So, first of all, I call on Mrs Miroslava Němcová to speak, and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared for a point of fact. So, madam, please, two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u38	Thank you for the floor. I want to define myself, Mr Vice-President, also with regard to the words of the Minister of Finance. It is a repeated attack on the functioning of parliamentary democracy, which her boss, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, launched a time ago, with his famous words that the House is a useless blabbermouth, and if we weren't here to waste our time, a lot of useful things would be done for people who can't listen to it anymore. This continuation of this rhetoric, which we know where it came from, from whom Andrej Babiš took it, and to what end it led in that country, is a disgusting way of discussing what you are going to have here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, I reserve this. And if you want to quote what's coming to you, look at the other responses that are on the list of your owner, Mr. Andrej Babiš iDNES. Look at this debate that has a few hundred responses, what people think about what you're doing here! If that's what you want to do in this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u39	There. So now I'm going to ask for a performance... to read the order of actual notes. So, Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Výborný and Mr Lubomír Španěl. So, Congressman, you have the floor, your two minutes. Mr. Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u40	Thank you. Dear Minister Schillerová, I'm here to address your attack on the Senate's upper chamber. Not only for our Senators KDU-ČSL Club, but for the other clubs that are there. But above all please also nicely for the Senator's Club YES! [[Emphasis.]] I think that Mrs Zdeněc Hamousová, Vice-President Větrovský, Mr. Senator Adámek, Mr. Senator Ciencial, Dušek, Kolib and Václavc must mind your words! Please, if you have no respect for other political parties who have their senators in the Senate, at least have that respect for those of your own who represent you there. I have spent tens of hours in the Senate and have great respect in front of the Senate Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u41	I will now request a speech from the President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Marek Výborný. So you have the floor. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Schillerová, I fully respect your view on this point - the draft constitutional action. Of course, you have every right to do that, and you can also say it here, present your opinion, no one takes it away from you, and then vote it out. But please, very please, let us leave these attacks on the fundamental pillars of our functioning as a democratic state, and that, of course, is Parliament as a whole. That means both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. It's a thing that doesn't have anything to say here, in this place, at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u43	Now I have one final point in fact. So I call on Mr Lubomír Španěl to prepare Mrs Pekarová if she is not another factual one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just being brief. World, look, for the first time, I have to agree with Mrs Němcová through Mr President. Because we spend so much time here, and we have so much important work to do. That's what people see with the TV sets and so on. And on the side of the pirát. Well, let's behave with dignity. You've already shown us how to behave with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u45	There. Now, then, the general debate. And I call on Mrs Pekarová to prepare Mrs Ožanová. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u46	Dear Senators, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the government's torso will also not give me an introduction and I will respond to the Minister's words. I mean, I also get different messages on different channels, whether it's email and more. And maybe one of them was how we can stand to hear it. I have to say, I agree with that sometimes. And especially when we listened, for example, to the chairman of the ANO parliamentary club, who here demonstrated an immensely awkward attack on the senators. And I actually want to apologize to them on behalf of us, those who don't like it. [[Ambassador Faltynek speaking from the point of view.]] Please, this is no way to talk to each other here, through the President. You could learn that after all these years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u47	Please, let's discuss it over the microphone so everyone can hear it and it's on the record. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u48	Thank you. There are a lot of good reasons why we should be proud of the Czech Republic and of people who give it a good name abroad through their actions. And there are also several reasons why feelings of pride do not arouse. One of them is that after 30 years of democracy in this country, we are witnessing for the first time an absolutely exceptional situation, which is a constitutional action against the President of the Republic. An action which, in the opinion of the vast majority of experts on constitutional law, is justified and justified. A lawsuit that does not please us anybody, as it by its very nature draws attention to the moral chaos of contemporary Czech society, deliberately established part of irresponsible politicians headed by the country's president. However, an action whose discussion is now absolutely essential for a clear definition of how far the head of state can go and how decisive it is for the effective implementation of the country's basic law of the current political whim. It is quite insignificant that the action contains not one, not three, but eight key points on which it is based. Miloš Zeman is systematically and continuously in his presidency trying to hold the reins of executive power firmly in his hands, helping him to a large extent with his incompetence, and sometimes the ridiculous servility of government politicians headed by the Prime Minister, who, in fear for their future, not only the political one, are taking the lead. This practically fills the format of the half-Presidentic system, which relies on artificial legitimacy based on the absolute number of votes in elections, which does not impose on anyone the right to circumvent the Constitution and refer to the people's voice. Whether his name is Miloš Zeman or whatever. An example of unconstitutional behavior is, among other things, the arbitrary appointment of a government called. experts in 2013 led by Jiří Rusnok and who ruled here for more than seven months without having a chance to gain confidence in the Chamber of Deputies for at least a second. But the government of these experts was nothing more than the government of friends of Miloš Zeman. Thus, those who qualified for their loyalty to the country's president instead of those who had a parliamentary majority and offered a government solution at political level have succeeded. Like many times before and after all, many times afterwards, it was confirmed that only one thing was enough to complete the top executive functions in this country - to cuddle in the favor of Miloš Zeman. [[12.30 hours]] Other actions of the action, based, for example, on the rejection of the appointment of ministers according to the President's personal sympathies, are also based on a similar principle, although this authority is clearly given to the Prime Minister. However, he also legitimizes his unconstitutional behavior with his inactivity before the President and some pancakes. The last example was an absurdly comedy performance with the not-named Mr. Šmarda Minister of Culture, who wanted to accompany us all this summer. An important part of the lawsuit I would like to draw attention to is the President's conduct and actions in the field of foreign policy. In complete conflict with the official policy of the government, which is the essence of this point of action, the current President is in a position that is conducive to authoritarian regimes and undermines our credibility where we have true allies, in the European Union and in NATO. This spring, the president said he was an agent of the Czech Republic. Somehow this has happened for the Russian agency in an interview. It is based in a country that enjoys the President's long-term appearance and views unseen. If this agent from the Czech Republic acts as the main instrument of Russian propaganda towards Central Europe, he is not doing his job too well. And we do not want so much if we wish to have a president whose strongest side is not bowing to China and Russia with the declared goal of effective economic cooperation and diplomacy, which has brought more speech than real action in seven years. I may be wrong, but I might be able to sell some of the first tractors to China soon. It is no less important, perhaps even more important than the fulfilment of the factual points on which the action stands, I consider how symbolic it is and what report it sends to Czech companies. The President should set an example for all citizens in respect of the standards on which the spirit of modern Czech statehood stands. Instead, he shoots the ústav into both knees. It makes it perfectly clear that if you are boundlessly loyal to the right people, it will pay off. If you're trying to bypass the rules, it's worth it. If you create a split-up regime and rule it out, it'll pay off. And this is a matter that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we can still change by voting on the case. We can offer a certain symbol and at least partially rid society of the feeling of apathy and waste, which is the best mess for those who do not think well of our country. Miloš Zeman currently enjoys great public support, a fact that cannot be ignored. And it is this trust that obliges him to act responsibly, to set an example and to honor the laws of this country, not to use them for his benefit, to promote his political goals, or to reward those who help him in fulfilling his ambitions. If he does not do so, it is up to us to call back and do everything we can to confront the consequences of our actions. However, this confrontation cannot, by its very nature, be realized by the Chamber of Deputies. This can be realized by the Constitutional Court. That's what he's called to do. However, we must be those who will not stand in the way of this decision. The TOP 09 will do so, and I ask you to do the same and let the Constitutional Court decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u49	I now call for the speech of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u50	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the opinion of Professor Aleš Gerloch, CSc. The opinion is extensive, so I will allow myself to shorten it and to present a short lift. The fundamental problem of the proposal is the fact...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u51	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the MP can concentrate on her performance. If you have anything that has nothing to do with discussing the point, please go to the foyer. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u52	The fundamental problem of the proposal is that it does not analyse in any way what is legally understood as a gross violation of the Constitution or other part of the constitutional order, which is a prerequisite for successful bringing a constitutional action. It cannot be assumed that it is a matter exclusively for the Constitutional Court to interpret the Constitution itself and its defined terms, without the appellant arguing why he considers that a particular act shows signs of gross breach of the Constitution, for reasons further discussed. It is therefore the task of the Constitutional Prosecutor, the Senate, to present to the Constitutional Court an interpretational alternative which will imply that the President committed an infringement which is characterised by gross violations of the Constitution. The role of the Senate cannot be limited to merely describing the various steps of the President of the Republic and their assessment in terms of politically, that is in terms of consent or opposition to their content or substance. If this is how the Senate goes, the proposal suffers from shortcomings from the very beginning. The Constitution itself does not specify the gross violation of the Constitution or constitutional order, which is a serious constitutional deficit, because it is not defined in contrast to the constitutional offence of treason by substantive, that is, the factual aspect of the delinquent act. Since the two constitutional offences are, for the reasons described, an obvious analogy to the criminal offences associated with serious sanctions, the constitutional rule expressed in Article 39 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms must also be applied here, according to which law only provides which act is a criminal offence, meaning that the law, or in this case the Constitution, or at least the Constitutional Court Act, must define the nature of the offence in question. In view of the principle of division of state power, it is unacceptable that the nature of the delicate conduct, which is the factual basis for such conduct, should be defined only in decision-making practice. It would be the same as if the Criminal Code merely provided that the offence is an act of grossly violating the rule of law, whereupon the courts would decide in individual cases what the offence is and what it is not. For these reasons, the question at all is whether a constitutional action may be brought for a gross breach of the Constitution or some part of the constitutional order, unless it is in any way defined what substance of such an inadmissible act is to be held. It is certainly not about any violation of the constitutional order, but about a violation of the constitutional order which has a constitutional dimension, it is about the exercise of constitutionally established powers of the President of the Republic. The constitutional action put forward does not have that character in many respects. If, for example, the President of the Republic is accused of trying to influence the ex-traditional process, it is a negotiation which, even if it were to occur, is not the exercise of the President's own powers, in other words, even if the President were involved in matters which are the responsibility of the Constitution or the law to rule on other authorities of the State, it cannot therefore only be considered as a gross violation of the Constitution or other part of the constitutional order, all the more so being that the President of the Republic is entitled under Article 64 (2) of the Treaty. The European Parliament and the Council shall be assisted by the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the In the case of Article 63 of the Constitution, only one clear violation of the rules governing the exercise of the President's powers, namely the failure to act as President of the Republic, can be considered. In such a case, however, the question is whether the President is inactive for no reason in a particular situation, or whether he exercises his powers, but there are adequate reasons for his delay. Here it must be assumed that the Constitution does not, as a rule, set precise deadlines for the President of the Republic. An exception may be, for example, election announcements. The infringement of the rules on the exercise of the President's powers of the Republic may be considered in relation to the powers enshrined in Article 62 of the Constitution. However, these must be the powers the President is obliged to exercise, not the powers he can exercise. Typically, the possibility to return Parliament to the law adopted is the right of the President of the Republic, not his duty, and therefore the President cannot be blamed for not having the law adopted, even if it is a law, for example, unconstitutional. Similarly, he is entitled to propose a review of the constitutionality of the law or an international treaty in accordance with the Constitutional Order under the Constitutional Court Act. [[12.40 hours]] It is therefore necessary to identify from the various powers of the President of the Republic, whose exercise cannot be grossly violated by the President, those whom the President of the Republic must exercise, in addition only those for which the manner in which they are executed is clearly defined by the Constitution. It cannot be overlooked here that the vast majority of the President's powers referred to in Article 62 do not have clear rules on how these powers are exercised. It follows that the President has discretion in the manner in which such powers are exercised. The constitutional action is based on the fact that the President of the Republic is merely an executor of the will of other constitutional agents or constitutional institutions without being able to make autonomous decisions. The position of the President of the Republic has never been conceived in such a way that the President would be regarded as merely an executor of the decisions of others. This cannot be the case since the President's office began to be occupied by direct elections, which necessarily increased the legitimacy of the President's office to decide autonomously on certain issues. The question which the constitutional action does not address at all is the nature of the offence defined as a gross violation of the Constitution or any other part of the constitutional order. The overall structure of the constitutional offense that the President of the Republic may commit shows that the most serious is treason, the gross violation of the Constitution is second. This clearly implies that the Constitutional Devotor distinguishes between a simple violation of the Constitution and a gross violation. A simple violation of the Constitution then remains without penalty, sanctioned by a gross violation of the Constitution. The constitutional action itself does not distinguish this aspect at all, it is simply based on the fact that all negotiations against the President of the Republic are without further, at least in their entirety, a gross violation of the Constitution. Such an approach can hardly stand. The Constitutional action is based on the concept that a number of the President's actions or actions described in the application are a gross violation of the Constitution. In doing so, the constitutional structure is that the offence is already one act of the President of the Republic, which can be described as a gross violation of the Constitution. This can be deduced from the ultimate sight - the violation that the Constitutional Tribunal has used in Article 65 of the Constitution - not the inexhaustible sight - of the infringement. The lack of intensity of the President's partial counter-constitutional conduct cannot be replaced by the fact that, instead of one gross violation, the President is accused of repeated or continuous, non-serious, often only alleged violations of constitutional order in various aspects. This is precisely what the constitutional lawsuit is built on, contrary to the constitutional structure, the constitutional responsibility of the President of the Republic. In some cases, legislation chooses such a design of a delinquency where either a serious infringement or a repeated minor infringement is considered delinquent. However, such a structure has not been chosen by the Constitution and is therefore without doubt based on the fact that the offence is only gross, not any violation of the Constitution or any other part of the constitutional order, including a one-off infringement. The Constitutional action is contrary to the constitutionally given structure, as well as to the fact that it accuses the President of acts relating to the exercise of powers which are not enshrined in the constitutional order. An example is the pronouns of not naming university professors or proposing candidate to the Council of the USTR in violation of the law. It is not constitutional but legal powers, and therefore this alleged violation of the President's authority cannot be constitutionally relevant. Other means of protection, such as, for example, administrative action or non-acceptance of the proposal, serve to remedy, where appropriate, the alleged lawlessness of the President of the Republic. Another lack of constitutional action is that it does not distinguish between the alleged infringement of the President's authority in the parliamentary term. It is clear from the constitutional structure that the President of the Republic can only be sued for the actions which he has committed during a given term of office. The Constitutional Court reached the same conclusion in the finding the file mark Pl. US 17/13 points 41 and 42. I quote: "The constitutional criminal responsibility for treason is linked to the exercise of the office of President. As soon as the presidency ceases for any reason, its former holder, the former President, loses the essential capacity to continue to be a party to the constitutional offence proceedings as defendant.' Nor can it be taken into account that, by re-election to the President of the Republic, new legitimacy is given to the exercise of his office. There is a need to distinguish the unconstitutional exercise of authority and other speeches of the President of the Republic. The President's individual misconduct in a constitutional lawsuit is not distinguished from the point of view of whether it is an unconstitutional exercise of the President's powers or whether it is the speeches or actions of the President which cannot be regarded as exercising the power. It is necessary to define the various elements of the facts of the constitutional offence, i.e. is its object, subject, objective side and subjective side. Once again, the constitutional action does not analyse these aspects, which link legal theory and practice with each type of delinquent act. The Constitutional action is based on the fact that any action against the President of the Republic is a criminal offence without addressing the subject matter of such a delicate act and whether the President's action has been affected. The constitutional action is based on the purely doctrinal design of the Czech constitutional system as a parliamentary system, in which the president is only to have a formal and representative position. However, this has never been the case with regard to the text of the Constitution, and it is not, even now, after the introduction of a direct election of the head of state. In this context, it is not without the importance that the previous presidents of the Czech Republic often did not exercise their powers in a purely formal and representative manner. For example, according to the Constitution, the President is obliged to sign the passed laws. However, even as President Václav Havel, practice was established, according to which some laws were neither vetoed nor signed by the President. The law was then declared contrary to the Constitution without the signature of the President of the Republic. It is clear from this that since the beginning of the creation of the current constitutional system, some peace of discretion on the part of the President of the Republic has been respected. Similarly, it cannot be recalled that Václav Havel or Václav Klaus rejected some of their personnel proposals. This has to do with the fact that these are powers under Article 62 of the Constitution, where the Constitution gives discretion to the appointment of constitutional officials, since it does not provide that the President of the Republic is bound by the proposal. The question of the assessment of the reason for rejecting a specific proposal, or rejection delay in the assessment of the proposal, is probably a matter of a political or socio-political nature. In this respect, these powers differ from those exercised by the President under Article 63 of the Constitution. That aspect is undoubtedly relevant for those alleged offences where the President of the Republic is accused of not acting without undue delay, but without the Constitution setting a specific time limit for the decision or action of the President of the Republic. In such a case, the principle of unity of the rule of law would require that other constitutional institutions proceed without undue delay unless a specific deadline is set. An example may be the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, which also does not have any time limits for its decision-making, but does not decide, without undue delay, on the proposals made to it. Individual violations of the President's powers must also be demonstrated in a factual way. For example, the president is accused of interfering with the independence of justice. Such conduct is potentially of the nature of the offence. However, the President of the Republic is equipped with indemnity. It is not possible to replace the impossibility of criminal penalties by means of a constitutional action, in addition, in a situation where the conclusion of such action can be made only after the evidence has been carried out. The allegation of this hearing is based solely on the statement made by the former President of the Supreme Administrative Court and is contrary to the conclusions of the Chamber of Deputies for Justice and the competent prosecutor who postponed the criminal report on the case. [[12.50 hours]] The constitutional offence of gross violation of the Constitution or other part of constitutional order is not defined either in the Constitution or in the Constitutional Court Act. The principle of nullum crime sine lege is thus violated. The President of the Republic must be given the opportunity to know in advance what his actions might be to fulfill the deed of that constitutional offense, as is the case with treason. Likewise, the Senate bringing a constitutional action, the Chamber of Deputies, whose consent is required, and the Constitutional Court, which decides on it, must be limited in this regard. This central attribute of the democratic rule of law does not reflect the Senate in its constitutional lawsuit. The Senate, as a constitutional prosecutor, cannot rely on the differences between him and the people directly elected by the head of state, but should argue in detail and prove the fulfilment of the various aspects of the constitutional offense. It is not only appropriate to describe and summarize the various meetings of the President of the Republic, in addition, for a large part, from the first parliamentary term of the Head of State. Despite the uncertainty of the facts of that constitutional offence, it is clear that this must be a gross violation of the Constitution or other part of the constitutional order. The Constitutional action provided for in Article 65 of the Constitution is an exceptional legal means of controlling the exercise of the President's authority, which is fundamentally not responsible for the performance of his duties - Article 54 (2) of the Constitution. 3 of the Constitution. The Senate did not evaluate the contradiction of the legal regulation of the sanction with the constitutional regulation. The current wording of the Constitutional Court Act does not differentiate sanctions in terms of the constitutional offence of high treason and the vague constitutional offence of gross violation of the Constitution or other part of the constitutional order, although the constitutional regulation distinguishes these two offences and gives the possibility of sanctioning the loss of the Presidential Office and the capacity to regain it. So much for Professor Gerloch's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, after studying the lawsuit and getting acquainted with various, often contradictory positions, I must also comment on the matter. In the press release of 3 November 2009 on the Constitutional Court's finding in the Treaty of Lisbon, the sentence is given - I quote: "The Constitutional Court stressed that it is a court, not a place for endless discussions." I quite agree with this. That is why I believe that we should not burden the Constitutional Court with legal defaults serving solely to make certain subjects and their political views visible. Political debate does not belong on the grounds of the Constitutional Court. I recommend that the House not give consent to filing a proposed constitutional lawsuit against the President of the Republic. In conclusion, I have no choice but to comment on what Senator Láska has said today. It is today that Senator Láska mentioned the ultimate and inexhaustible in the resolution of the subcommittee on justice, with the fact that the independence of justice was not threatened and not threatened. Yes, I agree, it has an excellent and inexhaustible interpretation, but this is forgotten directly in the lawsuit, when the Constitution says it is a gross violation, not a... a gross violation, not a gross violation. So, in one case, we can deal with the ultimate or the inexhaustible, in another case, it doesn't apply anymore. Another was that there was no case-law. Well, she's not missing. We know that the actions of the past period, according to the caselaw, are non-predictable. But again, the senator completely forgot. Then there was also talk of a round table. That only four Members were present. I beg you, on Monday, as Vice-President of the House, Mr Vojtěch Pikal, has already mentioned, indeed Members are doing work in their regions and are mostly present in their parliamentary offices. Therefore, a call to this term really is pardoned - only Members who are not interested in working in the regions or who are from the vicinity of Prague could attend. The rest of us just didn't have the option. We'd love to come, but we didn't have the chance. What really surprised me was that they say it's not political, but then all of a sudden it says, "You're going to vote like that, because you're taking a picture with Zeman on Facebook because you want to make yourself visible." Please, I think this has been unnecessary, this is not part of this debate. I can say that I felt very concerned about the expression that there are politicians, senators and senators who decide according to their conscience. Did the senator mean to say that I don't make decisions based on my conscience? Through the President, Mr Lásek. I decide according to my conscience. Just because I have a different opinion on the matter doesn't mean that I have no conscience and that only one who agrees with Senator Láska has a conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u53	Thank you. I'll read two apologies. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá apologises from 14:30 to 18:00 because of the doctor's visit and Mr Jiří Ventruba apologizes from 14:30 to the end of the day for family reasons. Now we have three factual points. And since I'm gonna have to stop the meeting at 1:00, I don't know if it's all gonna happen. So, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, Mr Jan Lipavský will prepare and Mr Vít Rakušan will prepare. And then, if there are no more, then in the general debate, Mr Čižinský. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on what Mrs Ožanová quoted here from Dr Gerloch's text, where he believes there is no definition of gross violation of the Constitution. I would like to refer here to the fact that the interpretation of this term was provided by constitutional experts Jan Kysela and Jan Wintr, I think it was in 2017, when they note that a gross violation of the Constitution means a one-off violation of the rule or principle of fundamental importance, but also repeated violations of the Constitution, which, as a result, undermines the constitutional system. So let me add this to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u55	Another point of fact, Mr Jan Lipavský, and so far the last application for a factual remark, Mr Vít Rakušan. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u56	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would simply add, in fact, the information that was given by Mrs Ožanová. Dr. Gerloch has been nominated by the President this year for a constitutional judge. The Senate didn't support him, he got 19 votes out of 64. And on that occasion - Professor Cardiff Law School Dr. Jiří Přibáň made some experience with him in the 1980s and commented on it in words - I quote: "Aleš Gerloch lectured on the theory of the socialist state and the law by a non-stalinist dialect, which was no longer necessary or required at the time of perestroika. Gerlochův's talent was not in expertise, but in the ability to combine personal ambitions with impersonal loyalty with all those who were currently in power. The fact that he occupied the post of head of the department at several Czech universities and in several legal fields is not an expression of the genius of the spirit but of the trivial state of higher education." I would like to say that for me, it is simply a symbol of some sort of neo-normalization order that Andrej Babiš and Miloš Zeman are trying to introduce here - where the wind, where the cloak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u57	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Vít Rakušan. He's 58, but I'll be helpful and I won't interrupt you if you fill up for two whole minutes. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u58	Thank you for your kindness. Mr President, colleagues. Through you to Mrs. Ožanová. I actually thank her very much for her performance here. She was quoting one of the expert opinions on the whole situation of the President and his possible violation of constitutionality in our country. On Monday there was a seminar in the Chamber of Deputies, where lawyers with high reputations presented an exact opposite view. [[13.00 hours]] So the sum of the sum just leads to the conclusion that it really can't be primarily the political debate that we're having here, but a purely professional discussion. And the only authority in our country capable of assessing whether or not the President's actions were beyond the Constitution is the Constitutional Court. So all the arguments that there are different opinions of respected lawyers against each other simply and unambiguously testify that it is the constitutional suit against the President of the Constitutional Court that should be discussed and created here some legal certainty for the future that we simply lack. Actually, thank you for the show. Dr Gerloch thinks otherwise than the experts who attended Monday's seminar in the Chamber of Deputies. Let the Constitutional Court decide. We can help with our vote today. And a brief comment on Minister Schillerová. I thank her, too, because her outrageous appearance on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, when our colleagues in the upper chamber call it filth, or she quotes in the news when she says that we're actually just talking here instead of working, so at that point, Minister Schillerová launched an incredible number of very nice messages that we're going through. And some of them don't brand a very pretty name for the secretary herself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u59	That was the last point of fact so far at the moment. I'd just like to remind you of the next step. Mr. Patrik Nacher is still here, but I'm not giving you any room now. But since we continue with oral interpelations at 2:30 p.m., I just point out that after the oral interpelations are exhausted, we will continue, so we need to follow, that is for Mr. Patrik Nacher, who is ready for de facto action, which is why, in principle, the order will come to him immediately, when we have to proceed continuously to the hearing of the constitutional lawsuit again. And then Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared. I wish you a good meal by 14.30 so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-002-256.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30, so we will continue today's meeting. Before I open the next point, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Kott apologizes to us from 15.00 to the end of today's meeting, he apologises to us between 14.30 and 15.00 for Válková reasons, Mr hnilička apologizes to us from 14.30 to 15.30 for working reasons, and Mr Plzák apologises to us from 15.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. I am now opening an item in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the approved programme.
