ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u1	53. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of four responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the answers to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to each written interview. The first is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 482. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I have just read his apology for work reasons, so it is not possible to discuss this interpelation and we will address it on another day. There is also an interpelation for Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who responded to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interpelation on violations of constitutionally guaranteed right to the protection of property rights by the General Financial Directorate. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 496. I will ask the Member to give his opening statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Madam Secretary. Thank you for being present for my interpellation. First, my dear colleagues, let me tell you what my interpellation was all about. It is the case that the tax officials of one company for several years within the so-called. excessive VAT deduction was withheld from money, even the part with which there was no problem from the tax point of view. The Constitutional Court called it an undisputed part of the deduction. At the end of this February, the Constitutional Court said that such a step is a violation of property law and that the Financial Administration should not do so. Subsequently, the Director of Administration Richterová issued an internal regulation, the content of which is de facto that the Financial Administration officials do not respect the decision of the court and the requests for repayment of deductions do not comply with further requests. Several reasons led me to interpelation and to my disapproval. Although the very fact that the Financial Administration does not respect the Constitutional Court's decision and is supported by the Minister of Finance would be enough. It's kind of a public message. It's some kind of Constitutional Court, so what? We're the Financial Administration. In a democratic state, however, it is simply not possible for a state institution not to respect the decisions of the courts, the caselaw and the interpretation of the law. If the court's decision does not respect state power, what example does it give respect to private individuals and private entities? Now, in more detail, the Minister's replies. During the time between the request for interpelation in plenary and today, the Ministry answered one of the questions asked when the amendment of the tax code will be prepared to address this. I don't want to discuss a specific way of dealing with this right now, because we would have gotten into this discussion by extending the time limits of 30 to 45 days. It's being handled by some kind of backup, and it's not really the subject of interpelation. However, something else led me to interpelation, and that is the fact that the Constitutional Court's decisions have been disrespected. In one question, I asked the Minister about the risk associated with the actions of other companies and the associated costs of the state, which will pay the taxpayer to compensate such companies. In reply, the Minister replied that the same, if not more risk, could occur if the Financial Administration were to make a rash or incorrect attempt to respect this finding. Interesting answer. [[9.10 hours]] I'd like to ask, Madam Secretary, if you can tell me such risks. You said in your reply that a penalty payment could then be granted to tax entities and that you are supposedly protecting tax entities. Are you really protecting them by keeping everything from them? The way I understand it, you'd better hold them back if they didn't spend the money. I'm convinced they're completely blissed about how they're protected by the Financial Administration. But the real question is: what is the risk so high that it justifies not respecting the Constitutional Court's finding? You, Madam Secretary, also replied that the Constitutional Court's conclusion is binding only on this particular case. I am neither a lawyer nor a constitutional lawyer, but if the Constitutional Court used arguments that apply in general, the Financial Administration should also treat them that way. I would like to quote to you, colleagues, only a short excerpt from the Constitutional Court's conclusion, which reads: "The Constitutional Court concludes that the lack of legal basis for the intervention in the right of property protected by Article 11 of the Charter cannot be replaced by a statement by the public authorities that the law does not provide a specific procedural procedure for not committing such an intervention to the rights. The tax rules allow the tax authorities to verify only the part of the transactions on which reasonable doubts exist prior to the assessment of the tax. However, it does not give the tax administrator the power to retain an indisputable part of the excess deduction derived from those taxable transactions which, as undisputed, cannot be subject to verification.' Thus, the argument that there is no procedural procedure, and therefore the Ministry of Finance does not return or, respectively, the Financial Administration does not refund excessive deductions, the Constitutional Court not only refuted it but also called it incorrect. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration continue to argue and ignore the Constitutional Court's decision. In other words, the Constitutional Court has said here that the Financial Administration is not saving the rights of tax entities and is overusing its powers. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance is again trying to defend the procedure of the Financial Administration and is therefore trying to defend the indefensible. The founding of the Constitutional Court is interesting from one point of view, and this is because it pointed to another disproportionate procedure and the approach of the Financial Administration to tax entities. In other words, it says that the Financial Administration should proceed in accordance with the principle of proportionality, minimise its interventions so that its action does not become disproportionate to individuals. And unfortunately, the Financial Administration doesn't do that. Thus, the Financial Administration denies what legal powers it has. And the Constitutional Court is quite correct in denying the policy of recent years that is set up for the Financial Administration, which the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration have put into wine, and that is an aggressive approach to tax entities in order to maximize tax collection. Unfortunately, it stretches like a red thread by holding the Financial Administration. This is not the only example, this is not the only case. It's really going on with a lot of cases that we're discussing here all the time. But it seems that the order from the Treasury was clear. We see this on many other examples. But the purpose of tax collection, though godly, does not justify any means. And that, in my opinion, was what the Constitutional Court was trying to draw attention to. Madam Secretary, I hope that you will explain some things to me and, in particular, you will focus on the risks that lead you to disrespect the Constitutional Court's decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion of oral questioning concerns the issue of withholding tax deductions or excessive deductions, if you wish, the Financial Administration bodies and follow up on Mr Vojtěch Munzar's previous written interpelation, who has requested its inclusion on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. Both with the content of the interpelation and with the content of my reply, which I sent on 21 May 2019, including a detailed argument supplemented with figures on the subject, you had the opportunity to get acquainted. So I will not repeat, if you will, the arguments raised, but only briefly will I repeat the conclusion that I have given you. The retention of claimed excess deductions on value added tax due to the necessary verification of their legality is undoubtedly a legitimate step that follows from the tax rules, and, of course, partly from the VAT Act. On the other hand, it is an intervention in the property right of a tax entity, there is no doubt about it, so it should be used in a most gentle and proportionate manner. And as documented in my reply on specific data since 2014, the Financial Administration is trying to minimize the volume of over-deprived deductions and thus minimises the interference with ownership. For your information, so-called control reports have been very helpful. As control reports now mean that the Financial Administration has millions of data in its analytical activity, first pairing takes place, second pairing, and basically only problem deductions remain in the system. And I'm on that table that I sent you, where there are hard numbers of deductions held from 2014 to 2019, so the trend in that table is clearly clear. You have detailed numbers. The volume of over-deducted deductions was reduced to an amount slightly exceeding a billion crowns. That was a number sometime early in the year. Yesterday I had a regular business meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration, where we regularly analyze cash transactions, and yesterday the year-on-year difference of those deductions was about 600 million. That's historically the lowest number. This means that the Financial Administration specifies its actions and does not harass most honest tax entities or entities that do not miss. Of course, there may also be a mistake that has nothing to do with being a dishonest entrepreneur. So, while in some months of 2014, this amount exceeded CZK 17 billion, with a long-term average of around CZK 5 billion, we are actually moving on these amounts today, which I am telling you, mainly thanks to the Institute of Control Report and its follow-up analytical and methodological work. In addition, in the event that the tax entity is held for an extended period of time - the law says four months - it is granted compensation in the form of interest on the tax deduction from 2017 onwards. That's in the law. Despite all these positive shifts, the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration have been with the professional public for a long time - and it has also been with the so-called expert team on the tax system, where representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ministry of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Bar Association, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the Ombudsman and so on. It's really an expert team that's been working for years. I've been involved, and I've worked on lower levels, and if time allows me, I'm going to at least part of this meeting at this time. The question was whether it would be possible to adopt a legislative change that would allow a part of the claimed excess deduction to be paid, the so-called 'undisputed part', to be called 'work', before it is confirmed in its entirety and before it is determined. These discussions are already taking place, which is verifiable and exemplifying, long before the current Constitutional Court ruling was adopted on the subject, which came out on 28 February 2019, and you have now pointed it out. As a result of this attempt, the current proposal for an amendment to the Tax Code and related laws, which contains an institution of tax deduction advances, which can be paid to the tax entity in so far as the right of excess deduction does not require further verification. This bill was sent by the Ministry of Finance on 21 May 2019 to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which is still ongoing. And you know that because you've already quoted some passages from it. Of course, you said it wasn't the subject of interpellation, so I'm able to express myself immediately from my head on these things. But I suppose we're going to have a lot of debate because it's going to get on the ground very quickly, whether it's the Chamber of Deputies, the Budget Committee. You know I go to these things personally, so I'm sure - and you go there, even if you're not a member of the budget committee - so I'm sure we'll talk about it. [[9.20 hours]] As regards the Constitutional Court ruling that you have quoted here, according to which the Financial Administration should, in the context of controlling the excessive deduction of value added tax, retain only the part of it that is being investigated, it is simply not possible to accept it at the moment. We have a legal analysis processed, it has been worked by experts from the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration, and legislation does not allow it today. It's just not possible. Therefore, we must wait for this Chamber of Deputies to adopt an adjustment which is now in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure that will be debated. Just at this point in the particular case therefore the procedure of course is respected, but it is not possible - in this particular case it will be respected, of course, because it is a specific thing, a specific case, but it is not possible simply across the board, at this time. We don't have legislation. The legislation doesn't allow it. It is not possible to return partially. I mean, of course, the effective tax code that we have that serves for this application. In order for any public authority to be able to follow the legal opinions used in the Constitutional Court's argument, they need to be clear, unambiguous and consistent with other rules arising out of constitutional order. This is particularly true of the principle of legality, which is a general principle of law, but it is also one of the principles of the tax system, according to which state power can only be exercised in cases and limits laid down by law, in the way that the law provides. In addition, the solution chosen by the Constitutional Court in relation to the repayment of part of the excess deductions is, forgive me for the expression, quite unfortunate, both in terms of the quality and complexity of the argument used, as well as in terms of the chosen practical route through the partial determination of the tax which the domestic legislation does not contain. We just don't know how to set a tax in part today. Until we adopt this new legislation that we have sent to the legislative process, it simply cannot be applied across the board in practice. However, the objective to which the Constitutional Court finds itself and the Ministry of Finance's efforts are directed is the same. However, the way in which it is achieved should not be unimaginable, as it could ultimately adversely affect all tax entities. Because, as I said in my reply to the written interpelation, the Financial Administration is now faced with a difficult task of dealing with the legal opinions contained in the above-mentioned Constitutional Court ruling and of attempting to draw up a meaningful methodological guide on how to proceed, but not to break the tax rules. Work on this solution is currently underway and the issue is discussed on various platforms, with the participation of the professional public, representatives of ministries, courts, lawyers, tax advisors, academics, public defender of rights and others. And from the last period, I would like to mention a technical debate at the Faculty of Law, Charles University, which was on 16 April 2019, where the topic was discussed, especially by experts on constitutional law, or a seminar on the Current Challenges for Tax Administration, which was held by the Financial Administration on 4 and 5 June 2019 with the participation of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court in particular. Of course I offer you repeatedly, I have repeatedly offered this on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies, I also offer you cooperation on this subject. Feel free to engage in this discussion and contribute your expertise and your knowledge, and I am very serious about this difficult discussion. Of course, this concerns all Members of this House across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u5	Thank you. I have a few fresh apologies here. Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes throughout the day for family reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes between 9 and 11 o'clock for family reasons, Mr Martin Jiránek apologizes between 9.00 and 9.30 for no reason, Mrs Barbora Kořanová apologises between 14.30 and 22.00 for working reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská apologises between 9.00 and 10.30 for working reasons and Mr Pavel Plzák apologizes from 9 to 13 o'clock for family reasons. So, I'm asking who's interested in speaking in the debate. Mr. Munzar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I was intrigued by a few things. You repeated some of the things in your speech that you had in your written reply. However, you have repeated here a sentence that I find very interesting, and that is that it is not possible to accept the decision of the Constitutional Court across the board, that only this particular case will be dealt with. Well, I was here at the beginning in my speech quoting the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, which does not concern, respectively, this particular case, but is not only focused on this case. They're general arguments. And I will read them again: "The Constitutional Court concludes that the lack of legal basis for intervention in the right of property protected by Article 11 of the Charter cannot be replaced by a statement by a public authority that the law does not provide a specific procedural procedure for not committing such intervention to the rights. " You, Madam Secretary, said here that there is no specific process. This means that it is not possible to accept the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the Constitutional Court also denies this by its conclusion and its discussions and its outcomes. I will read another argument from the Constitutional Court: "Although the tax rules do not explicitly allow the treatment of an undisputed amount separately from the amount at issue, the tax rules also do not, in any of their provisions, allow the withholding of an undisputed amount together with the amount at issue... This conclusion follows from the tax rules no more than the possibility of a refund of an undisputed amount to a tax entity.' In other words, the Financial Administration somehow interprets the tax rules, saying that it does not have a procedure. The Constitutional Court states that the Financial Administration must protect the tax entity's rights as much as possible, minimise its interventions, have an appropriate approach to tax entities. And that's not how the Financial Administration does it. You, Madam Secretary, are telling me in response to the interpellation that this does not concern all tax entities, that it concerns only a specific case, that it will be resolved by the amendment to the tax law. But in the meantime, before the tax law is passed, there's more corporate lawsuits on the Financial Administration starting to multiply here, there's inaction lawsuits. And I asked you, Madam Secretary, what is the risk of your attitude that you do not want to accept the Constitutional Court's decision? And you told me that the risk of returning those deductions was greater than respect for the Constitutional Court. So I asked you about the risks of seeing them bigger, whether you are afraid of any costs associated with current actions, and how it will proceed if it costs the taxpayer money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u7	Thank you. I'm sorry, I have here, if that is correct - a factual point, Mr Bělobrádek? [[Mr Bělobrádek prefers the Minister.]] That will allow the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u8	Well, I'll try again. The principle of legality states that state power can only be exercised in cases and limits laid down by law, in a way that the law provides. So, of course, the Financial Administration is bound by the Constitutional Court's decision on a specific matter, and this is a general legal principle, and it will take action on that particular matter. In general, however, it must comply with the principle of legality. And you quoted here from the Constitutional Court's decision, which in itself just stated the contradiction. It said: there is no, yes, tax rules do not know the method of partial tax determination, you said so. I've spent 25 years in tax and tax administration, so now I feel a little bit at home. He says on the one hand: you can't go back in part, but on the other hand, he says: it shouldn't be a reason for you. And what I'm saying is, there's still the principle of legality, so it doesn't bother or barefoot a little bit. That's how I see it, smart hobby. That's what the Constitutional Court says. [[9.30 hours]] And I say join that expert group, which is actually dealing with this dilemma - neither sleighs nor bare feet. The legislation is written, it is in the legislative process. That's what we're gonna talk about here. You say so yourself, it's not the subject of negotiations right now. On the other hand, I'm telling you, the Financial Administration has come a long way thanks to the inspection report and is holding today - yesterday it was the number 600 million. That's historically the lowest number. I told you, it was 17 billion in 2014, 5 billion on an annual basis. It's $600 million today. Let us realise that this is, of course, an excellent report for cash flow tax entities. It's worse news for the cash flow state, but of course we care about those subjects first. Because, of course, by detecting the first pairing, the second pairing of control reports automatically - automatically - the first pairing will simply fall out of the first mistakes, they will be communicated informally, then within challenges, and from the second pairing things fall more fundamental, which then go into the examination in the form of either the management or in the form of tax control, or they simply fall out of the whole carousel fraud - carousel chains, beware, we do not yet know what it will be, the chains, and they are transmitted according to the fact that today we have determined that tax control will start the tax administrator, who started it first. That means we don't have the principle of general local jurisdiction here, so tax control can be carried out by any tax administrator. This solved Prague as a tax haven. That's actually how it's passed on to individual tax administrators. So this is a huge journey that has been made in just a few years through the inspection reports adopted by the former Chamber of Deputies, and continues to believe that this Chamber of Deputies will approve the refund of the undisputed amount. But now the Financial Administration is faced with a huge problem of how to match not in the particular case, there they will comply, always bound, always must, of course, comply with the court in a particular case. This is a general principle which follows from the procedural rules governing judicial proceedings. But how to cope across these conclusions is the hardest part. How to respect the principle of legality and respect the tax rules and, on the other hand, to comply with this Constitutional Court. And that's really for a smart hobby. So if you get involved and bring your little bit into the mill, and I really mean it, there's not a bit of irony in it, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u9	Thank you. Now, therefore, the factual point, Mr Bělobrádek, then the factual point, Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, I am not a lawyer, but I find it strange that the Constitutional Court's decision, which actually interprets constitutional order as the highest rule of law in the Czech Republic, is simply contrary to what the Constitutional Court has done. That means, in my opinion, the law can only be interpreted by the court. We have a court decision here that is beyond that, because it's a Constitutional Court. So, somehow, your argument to me is that it is possible to question the Constitutional Court's decision, which decided somehow, first of all, on the basis of the opinion of some people, that seems preposterous to me. Then we really deny our legal order and our administrative system at all. That sounds absurd to me. If it is so that you can decide only in one particular case, then there is no choice but to call on all those who have a similar problem so that they all turn to the Constitutional Court and overwhelm him with perhaps thousands of such actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u11	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Benda, then a factual or proper application, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I originally came to support Vojtěch Munzar only mentally, but I was interested in this type of interpretation. I understand what you call it - if it were a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court or, in general, a court, that it is applicable only in one particular matter. But we can't interpret the Constitutional Court's decisions like that. That's what I think your officials are deceiving you. This is simply generally binding for all and cannot be said: it will be applied only in this matter and we cannot apply it on a printed basis. There is a difference between the Constitutional Court and the ordinary courts, which really only judge in a particular case. But the Constitutional Court, his decisions are binding on everyone in this country, the findings. [[Response to note:]] But even the resolutions are binding, not even the whole justification, that is, of course, the dispute that is being waged in the legal public. I welcome the fact that you're preparing something new. But one thing we can't say is that we can and can't apply in one thing. If we interpret the case law of the Constitutional Court in this way, and I know the Ministry of Finance does it sometimes, we'll go completely crazy in that country. We really need to assume that these decisions are binding on everyone and must be treated in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u13	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u14	Again. Of course, it will be done in this matter. And an expert team is working on how to meet this contradiction, that we have an opinion here, or a decision by the Constitutional Court, and we also have a tax code that does not allow such a thing. We've got the principle of legality, we've got an expert team meeting with the tax system, we've got an expert team meeting at law school, they're meeting, expert teams working on it. It's just not fulfillable. The new legislation is running, it is in the legislative process as I have informed you, but at the moment we are in a big legal problem, on which not only brains are working, as you say here, the Ministry of Finance. I don't know if you were here, Mr. Ambassador, when I lectured on the reaction to the interpelation. It was handled on the ground with experts on constitutional law, at the law school. A tax expert team of experts has been called across, there are judges and so on. It's a huge problem that doesn't have a solution at the moment, but we're trying to do it. He just doesn't have a solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u15	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, with all due respect, this cannot be called a contradiction. It was a contradiction until the Constitutional Court ruled it out. There's no one above him after that. That's the highest authority in law enforcement. I have also had several such problems, and we do not always like the Constitutional Court's decision, but we have no choice but to respect it. Let me give you an example that hurts me a lot because this person is extremely honest and I like him. One of my deputy officers, when he got into this situation, that the Constitutional Court's decision had fallen, and he couldn't figure out how to do it under current legislation, so he ordered a legal analysis for about CZK 400,000. After Prime Minister Babiš came to the Ministry of Finance today, the Ministry of Finance filed a criminal complaint against the Deputy for violating the obligations in the management of foreign property because he had nothing to order a legal analysis, but was to carry out a decision by the Constitutional Court, and the man was convicted of it on a conditional basis. You will find it in the jurisdiction of the criminal senate I suspect for Prague 7, where it is just said, the judge condemned him and said: You had nothing to consider and what to analyze, you should have done it because it was done by the Constitutional Court. That's just how it is in our legal order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u17	Thank you. Madam Secretary, then the MP. I'm gonna read an apology. Today, Mr František Vácha is still apologizing between 9.00 and 10.30 - health reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u18	I cannot comment on this, President Kalousek. I don't know what we were talking about, so I can't comment. However, I understand what you're saying. We have respect for the Constitutional Court. It's not just contempt for the Constitutional Court. We're looking for a way. We don't hire anyone externally. There's no such thing. We're talking across with the biggest legal minds in this country. And we're looking for a way. In addition, we have proactively prepared a new legislation that we have notabene worked on before. And we're looking for a way. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u19	Thank you. Mr. President. [[Munzar]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u20	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And I thank my fellow speakers, through Mr President, that they have perhaps explained it better here with their experience than I have. I'll try another way. The Constitutional Court says that the Financial Administration today has no right to hold the whole amount on the basis of the applicable tax rules. You refer, Madam Secretary, to legality, to the lack of legality to return the deductions. But for the current Financial Administration procedure, the Financial Administration also does not have legality under the Constitutional Court's decision. So if there's such a contradiction, at this point, the Financial Administration should protect the rights of a tax entity more. Nevertheless, an internal instruction was given to the Financial Administration in order not to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. And I'm asking you because other lawsuits are beginning to appear here: it does not increase the risk that other companies will be successful in their actions and will therefore stand, virtually. Does the taxpayer pay any damages or the like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u22	I think everything's been said. The principle of legality still applies. There is no principle to protect one or the other more. The principle is not to confess more rights or less rights to someone. The principle of legality applies. And I say, look for a way. Because there's a contradiction, there's a statement from the Constitutional Court, yes, high legal authority. And there is a way to implement it until this Chamber of Deputies adopts new legislation. That's all. And it's a highly demanding legal problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u23	Thank you. A real point, Marek Benda. Then I noticed - Mr Munzar's application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u24	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The principle of legality is undoubtedly true, Madam Secretary. But if the Constitutional Court has been interpreted for the benefit of a taxpayer, then it is essential that the Financial Administration follows this, because the Constitutional Court has said, according to constitutional principles, not according to ordinary, constitutional principles, which are essentially based on constitutional principles, it must be done in this way and in this way. In that case, the law - yes, you want to correct it - is at this point contrary to constitutional principles in this country. And I don't really understand why we're having this debate that we're pretending the Constitutional Court is deciding, but we're going to ignore it. I don't think that's possible. If you'd like to say yes, we're preparing as soon as we can... But you cannot invoke the principle of legality against the Constitutional Court's decision. I really don't. That's what Treasury officials do. I know they can do it. But that just doesn't apply in normal life and it can't pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u25	Thank you. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u26	I'd like to thank Marek Benda again through yours. As a lawyer, he can explain it a lot better than I can explain it. However, one thing is that public institutions must follow the principle of public overstress, that is, they can only proceed to what the law allows them, and the Constitutional Court has said that the current tax rules do not allow them to do so either. At least that's how I interpret it. Anyway, we'd have gotten around to it, 'cause we're still... [[The secretary responds from the scene.]] So we're here until lunch, as you say, Madam Secretary. So unfortunately, I cannot agree with your answer, although I am glad that the Ministry of Finance has responded and prepared a solution through the amendment. However, we are at a time when the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, the financial administration should now proceed not only in this particular case, but also in all others. And for this reason, I am making a motion under the Rules of Procedure to oppose the Chamber of Deputies with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u27	Thank you. I've taken this proposal into consideration. Madam Secretary wants to get out. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u28	I don't want to drag this out anymore, because if we had the principle of public authority, we'd be here by lunchtime. I think that we are not in dispute that we understand each other, that basically we perceive both the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration, that there is a Constitutional Court decision here, and we are looking for ways to implement it. I think that by preparing new legislation in such a short time - she was prepared in such a short time because two years were being done on it, otherwise, of course, she would not have been prepared in such a short time between February and May, it would not have been real when the Constitutional Court decision came out in February and we sent her to the legislative process in May. And there are ways to implement the Constitutional Court's decision against the existing effective legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u29	Just a minute. It is technical or factual here - Mr Ferjenčík. Then President Kalousek entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I had to do was respond to the Minister's remark that he was not in dispute with Mr Munzar. I mean, that's completely ridiculous. Mr. Munzar says, please, start following the Constitutional Court finding for all cases, and you say no, we're not doing it. That's a huge feud. And I am totally on Mr. Munzar's side that you are to apply the Constitutional Court's decision to your activities and not to pretend that you will do it separately for each case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u31	Thank you. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u32	Thank you. I wanted to respond in the same way as Mr Ferjenčík. Madam Secretary, we are in a major dispute. The Constitutional Court's decision is part of the rule of law. And you, if you don't respect that decision and you don't apply it immediately, you're breaking the law. And our discussion leads to nothing but a courtesy of asking you to start applying immediately, because otherwise, in our opinion, you are violating the rule of law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u33	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? Mr. Michálek. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u34	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to ask about the supplementary question about the Minister, because we have a decision from the Constitutional Court, which, of course, has some general part where the Constitutional Court talks about legislation and draws conclusions from this in a particular case. Thus, in the general scheme, it draws some conclusions on the deduction of tax. And I want to ask if it has been instructed by the officials that they should not comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions in the meantime until we approve the new legislation here, and then there will be litigation in which those legal persons who have been harmed in this process of the Financial Administration will have to pay compensation to those persons, or they will have to pay interest on late payments and other penalty payments. Whether the Ministry of Finance will enforce it after those officials who made the decisions in those specific matters, or after the person who gave the instruction to the officials, according to which they must proceed on the basis of some obligation of service, and who is the person who has therefore issued the instruction and is responsible for it and will therefore be responsible for any damage if the courts come to the conclusion that damage has been caused in these cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u35	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u36	Well, I don't know, Mr. Chairman Michálek, what kind of instruction you have in mind. The instruction is, of course, a legal document of lower legal force. You know the Constitutional Court also spoke of him. He even said that when a public authority issued an instruction or internal normative instruction, it was bound by it and its violation would constitute a violation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms, such a decision exists, very old. So I don't know what instruction you mean. I'm not aware of any such instructions. And otherwise, in general, damages are governed by regulations that I'm sure you know. It is compensation for incorrect decisions by public authorities or maladministration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u37	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak in the debate. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr Munzar told me that there is an internal instruction, so I would perhaps like it to be supplemented in some way. And if you could let us know if it's true that there's an internal directive that governs this matter, or what the officials are supposed to do today. We would need a clear answer as to whether they should follow the Constitutional Court's decision or whether there is something in it that urges them to make different decisions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u39	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u40	I don't have any internal instructions in my background. Definitely wouldn't have been issued by the Treasury. Since the Ministry of Finance is not an interpreter, it is only a legislative body. The interpretation is provided by the General Financial Directorate. And, of course, I've informed you that the problem is being dealt with intensively.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u41	Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u42	I am merely supplementing Mr Michálek through Mr President. According to public sources, the Director-General of the Financial Administration was given an internal instruction not to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. At least that's how public resources speak. I asked that question in my interview, it wasn't questioned in any way in the written answer. I presume, then, Madam Secretary, that such an internal instruction has been issued to the Financial Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u43	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. Madam Secretary wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u44	I can't respond to that right now. It's not in my background. But I don't believe there was an order not to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. If there was an instruction, and of course I'm going to verify it, it's in the best way that the problem is solved. And that there are problems of the type that I've been suggesting in this class.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u45	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u46	Thank you for the floor. So I wanted to ask if the Minister could inform us about the real state of affairs when he finds out the basis for the interpellation, if any instruction went there, what its content was, and to make sure that it would proceed in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Because if we get into a state where the government does not respect legal opinions imported from the legal order of the Czech Republic, I think it will be a very bad situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u47	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We are going to vote on Mr Munzar's proposal, who wants the House to give a dissenting opinion by its resolution. I'm gonna sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you to re-engage. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. The number of votes has settled. I'll repeat for those who just entered the hall. We will vote on a disagreeable opinion on the response to the written interview by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered 83, for 35, versus 39. The motion for a dissenting opinion was not accepted. Thank you. We will move on to another written interview, which is also the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on possible abuse of the powers of public authorities. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 497. The MP is already behind the speaker's desk. I'll ask for some peace in the room. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I think I'll be a little bit more brief than I was in the previous case. I turned to the Minister for Information in the media about the fact that the Financial Administration was supposed to pay its informants and disguise them as its employees, which would, of course, be an unacceptable procedure. I am glad that the Minister has clearly answered me that the Financial Administration does not have such a practice, the informants have not paid and do not pay. This means that this information in the media is not based on the truth, as I understand it. So I hope that the Minister from the Financial Administration has been clearly and truthfully informed, not as in the case of the imposition of taxes. And I have asked de facto for this point to be included so that you can get acquainted with the interpelation and response to it. I don't ask for a completely different answer, I just want to ask the Minister, because information has come out in the media that it saves the police, whether they have any new information they can share, because it's part of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Initiating debate. First up is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I can basically repeat what was the subject of my intervention. I can add that the Financial Administration, actually, today most of the employees, most of them, are subject to the Civil Service Act, i.e. simply specified by the rules set out here. Nothing like what is said in the media is based on the truth. I have repeatedly asked the Director General for an explanation, I have been assured that nothing like this is happening. It would also contradict the principles of the Civil Service Act and the Labour Code, because some small group, perhaps a marginal group of people, are working on agreements there. It's not based on the truth. Indeed, there is one case that is being investigated by law enforcement authorities. I don't know anything more than that, I can't even know, even the CEO doesn't know anything else. We have to wait until the controls are complete. You asked me, I think, if I'm looking closely at Mr. Ing's departure. Malý Zbyšek, I have a feeling you had it in the background. That was the director of the Risk Section at the General Financial Directorate. According to my information, I received from the Director General, he resigned. He's resigned to the hands of the former CEO, so he's not doing his job today, allegedly for personal reasons. I can't say anything more about it. So I'm saying clearly, it's not happening. I've been assured of that. And there's really one case being investigated by the police, but that's all I know, and neither does the CEO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u51	Thank you. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u52	I just want to thank the Minister for explaining. We'll see about that one case. If this were to be a practice, it would, of course, be extremely dangerous and warning, but thank you for the answer that this is not based on the truth. We'll see. In this case, I am not proposing a resolution, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u53	Thank you. I ask, who is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate and, in the absence of a voteable proposal, I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. The next interview we are going to discuss is that of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček replied to Mr Ivan Adamec's interpellation on the planned free transfer of the former Kateřina I mine to the ownership of the municipality. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 538. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u54	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I expressed my disagreement with the Minister's reply not because I did not agree with the content of what he wrote to me. And right at the outset, I have to say that the issue is of course long-term, it has a longer-term horizon. The minister came to this like he was blind to the violins by actually entering his office. The problem really is old and I think that saying that the state behaves with the care of a proper economy in these cases is a very courageous statement, because I say that the state and public sphere are practically one and the same in terms of their activity. Everyone has a share in the public sphere, of course, but even if God forbid the community then sold the property or used it in some way, by other means, the funds will remain in the public sphere anyway. That's why it's been bothering me for years. After my own experience, I know that I myself have gotten into trouble with a free transfer from the state - real estate, which unfortunately to this day is failing because it is not interested in them. The state is constantly offering them in various competitions, but the time is running out, the price of the property falls and the solution is not in sight. I'd say why Kateřina's mine, the village of Radvanice. It's a community in my constituency. It is a small village that is affected by mining and mining activities. There was a Catherine mine on its territory, the mine ended of course years ago and there was a burning pile, called a professionally rolled-out, which the state recultivated for de facto ten years at relatively high costs at that time, and there remained some of the necessary properties, which is taken care of by the company Palivový kombinate Ústí nad Labem. It's a state enterprise. By the way, Ústí nad Labem and Radvanice, it's over 200 kilometers apart. I think even the state-owned company, the state-owned company, has a problem with that. The municipality has actually started negotiating since the reclamation of the heap, since 2008, when it was promised a free transfer for the activities of the municipality. We have the year 2019, the transfer isn't happening. Now, take it as a matter of fact, the municipality has been asking for these dates since 2008, or the dates are later, but it's nine years since the first application, and nothing's going on. The state is offering it again in those competitions, which doesn't seem completely normal to me, but I understand, we have this state property law, and it's a question of whether this law is quite right, because the reasons I was talking about at the beginning are quite obvious that something is definitely not right. Think of it like that. You will negotiate the purchase of the house, you will negotiate with the owner and, of course, every reasonable owner, when he has a particular candidate, no longer is looking for another offer because at that moment he becomes a non-serious partner in the store. The state doesn't do that. The state simply offers all the time, and if it doesn't know what to say on condition, it constantly tightens them up, that eventually the community will say that under these conditions just let the state keep it. And the property decays, nothing happens, and life goes on. I must say that the village of Radvanice lies at the foot of the Jestřebí mountains, it is a beautiful underkrkonoše landscape and that affected mining activities is huge there. And if we want people not only to go to the Giant Mountains, but to Podkrkonoší - and those Jestrí Mountains, I can tell you in public to everyone, it is worth a visit - it is necessary for tourists to have adequate facilities there. Accommodation, restaurants, some other alternative activities and so on. The municipality has been trying to get this property from the state since 2010, and nothing. So, of course, I would be very happy to see that famous light at the end of the tunnel, so that we can say that just a public institution like the village is not a fraud, that the property will end up in the public sphere again, and if the property doesn't end up in the public sphere, then the money will end up in the public sphere if someone sells it. I remember the time when the state sold the Warsaw Hotel on the square, such a distinctive name in the Czech-Polish border area, two entrepreneurs - I would say that it was a strong word, it was cheaters who ended up in prison, even one partner died in prison, the other disappeared unknown where, and the hotel decayed in the square and the state kept laying down conditions. We told the state officials back then that we could sell the hotel better than they could, we could secure it, and we could return the property to its utility value, so it would work. The state then understood, did, and ended well. On the other hand, we have a medieval prison in our city, which for my incomprehensible reasons is state. I don't know how the state got it historically, it's always been a municipal wardrobe, but the state has, and I've been trying for 15 years, maybe even more to make a free transfer to the city. The conditions the state is laying down are incredible. It's probably going to end with us saying eventually, whether the state keeps it, and we're going to have an ulcer in the middle of town, or we're going to say we're going to buy it because we're not going to let the state restrict us because the purpose of owning such a property is that the property serves its purpose, or to evaluate itself, to make a profit, not to let the state prohibit us from dealing with it according to our will. So that's why I wanted to give the interview here at the plenary. It's not as simple as it looks at first sight. I think it's a systemic error in how the state behaves here. I confess that for the first time, I sent this interview to the Minister of Finance, which I thought belongs to the Office of State representation in property matters with which I have a great deal of experience. I have to apologize for harassing her and her officers. It was competently under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That's where it came from. Otherwise, I understand the Minister's answer. I can't argue with that. And I don't see the light at the end of the tunnel. So that's why I'm lecturing her here, and I'd like to hear the views, of course, of the Minister and possibly yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u55	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and Vice-President of the Government are ready to answer. So we can continue the discussion. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u56	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the interview. I thank Mr Adamc, because he has therefore forced me to look at the problem in detail, which is not that I do not want to perceive the problems, but only the participation of the state only under our ministry is thirty. There's a huge amount of that property, and, of course, there are hundreds of disputes and transactions. So I also went into absolute detail because of this, and I have to say, unfortunately, that this is a really sad, sad story, because, in principle, it is the fact that the rollout is so-called done. Since 2008, we have been proven to be in a situation where the state knows that it is useless and unusable to it. On the other hand, there is the village Radvanice, which offers - not only offers, but which is ready, which is important to say, there simply build assets and activities associated with the sport, cultural, recreational environment and so on, it means it is an entirely objective requirement of the community, and the state does not want it. And now we're in a situation where, from 2008 to 2019, we've been dealing with what somebody doesn't want, and the other one wants it, how he's supposed to hand it over, which is incredible. Now I've got this whole schedule of things going on here, and all these milestones, and I'm not even going to burden you with what happened in 2008, what happened in 2009, 2011, 2013 etc. [[10.10 hours]] I think it is not a question of political or non-political struggle or ideology, it is simply a typical problem of official character and it has noticed that. What, however, happened when I cross all those milestones, applications and returns, and the European Commission and fear and unauthorized public support and so on. So in August 2018 - and this is quite an important milestone - after all these discussions, the state enterprise, i.e. the Fuel Kombinate Ústí, received a request from another interested party for the purchase of the mining water treatment plant in Radvanice, including part of the surrounding land. So, paradoxically, after ten years of discussion on how to convert it or not to convert it, we got into a situation where the Fuel Kombinate is already in a predicament, because he really has to deal with the care of a proper economy, which means that he shouldn't really convert it now, because at that moment he has some kind of offer. And it's not possible to blame him. The second thing that happened and why it took ten years. On the other hand, an understandable public interest, which is to build a sports, cultural and recreational place, etc. I can't say anything about this right now except - of course, we have to proceed in some kind of legal regime that is being imposed - that at the moment we have provoked this to be an act. It is at the level of presenting a new proposal on how to deal with this, at the nearest meeting of the Supervisory Board, which will indeed be relatively soon. I'll take all the details, or I'll take them. I'm ready to go there and hear it. In any case, I'm going to do this in person, just because I'm quite happy that this thing is going to make an example of the fact that it's not just about the official procedure, but that it's also about a buyer's perspective. Because we're assigning the official legal procedure, which, in principle, wasn't entirely flawed, to a completely lay buyer's point of view and public interest, not to mention that he wanted it, and he didn't want it. So this wasn't about finances at all, this was about nothing more than making an act that might have been beyond the administrative process, but it would have been in accordance with the law and it could have been settled long, long ago. Because in the idea that we'd be dealing with all the bailed-out areas that we have here a huge amount of just below our resort, I don't think we'd be able to do anything. So I don't want to apologize now, I accept the responsibility of course for what has been done here, to some extent I understand the official procedures, it is not entirely possible to question them, but the common sense here has obviously been suppressed. I'm going to do my best to get public interest in this case. Unfortunately, that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u57	I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade Havlíček and my colleague Adamec are still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I didn't expect any other answer from you. I think it was perfectly right what you said here. On the other hand, it is also true that there is always a candidate if there is any will. And now I don't want to say that the will can be good, or it can be on the other side of the pole, even evil. And I wouldn't want anybody from the state to buy it, and it went on and there was nothing going on, and, of course, after years, he forced the village to buy it back for its last money, because there's nothing going on. And there's one more problem that needs to be said here. The village, if it should only get the part that isn't entirely commercial, it will lose interest at this moment, because it took off then no one will buy it and stay on the shoulders of the state, virtually. the administration of the company, the state enterprise. So, of course, the way I see these looks here is that the state acts according to the law. My experience with this really is rich in the history that I have in the communal sphere. And most of the time, except for the exceptions, it never led to a good end. And I'd really like someone to think about it. Moreover, the Radvanice are not northern Bohemia, where it can be commercially very interesting. In this case it is a really small village, it is a valley where it is interesting for the village, for the increase, I would say the attractiveness of the beautiful Jestřebí mountains. If you didn't know and heard ever Brenda, it's one and the same, because in German it was Brendy, today it's the Jesteb Mountains. I would really like this story to go well in favour of both Radvanice and the Czech state. And sometimes the laws we apply here are very complicated. Maybe I'll tell you one more case in history to make you realize that. The town of Trutnov owns about 2.5 thousand hectares of municipal forest. At present, we are not happy about this because we have collapsed forestry, economically, not physically. We wanted to do one thing years ago. The forests owned by the city are, of course, economic forests, but they are also forests for use, I would say, the resting time of their inhabitants. And because we are neighbouring the Krkonoše National Park and also, of course, the closest neighbor is the Czech Republic, state property, so we wanted to, and we argued with individual directors, to make a triple change of forests so that the forest belt around Trutnov was urban, the rest was state, and what belongs to the park was the Krkonoše National Park. I can tell you that when one Minister of Agriculture agreed, the Minister of the Environment disagreed when the Minister of the Environment agreed, the Minister of Agriculture disagreed. Everyone was afraid of the State Property Act. They feared if they took these steps so that it would not be criminalized, so that it would not be regarded as a criminal offence. And in the end it turned out that the forests of the state are still the forests of the state, the forests of the city are forests of the city and the Krkonoše National Park we managed to sell the forests for very nice money years ago, when the forest had value, because they had already managed there practically since its origin and before that, during the German empire, the forests were nationalized to our city. So this is how it turned out, the intention was not achieved at all, only partially agreed with the Krkonoše National Park. So I wish things were different in this case. I think it is necessary to seek further ways in this, and legal ways, to make the state more pragmatic, to make it more flexible. By the way, if there are auctions, the community can't go for it. Take how the community works. A difficult decision on property through the council of the municipality, we have to publish the intention, there is already the money and every speculator will simply outrun us. I think that in this case there is a need to make legislative changes, and quite serious, and it needs to be said, although I am, of course, in a double situation here, defending the state, defending self-government, but it must be said that both are public institutions that bear in mind the development and welfare of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And here, in this case, we need to rethink those attitudes and make it possible for the free transfers to be possible for the state to trust the municipalities and municipalities of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u59	I thank Mr Adamc, and now I ask if anyone is joining the debate. If no one is reporting, Mr Adamec has proposed no resolution, no opposition to the Minister's reply, and if no one is reporting, I can therefore end the consultation. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade. By doing so, we have exhausted all the written interpelations that have been included in this meeting. I therefore note that for today we have completed this item and will continue at 11 o'clock according to the approved agenda. Please note that at 11 o'clock there is also time for any proposals to change the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-001-053.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we are now to address, according to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, points 28, 49, 50, 51 and 52. Then we will continue the points from the contract block at second reading. Let me remind you that this afternoon we'll be dealing with point No. 54, which are oral inhalations. There was one more to the apologies. Mr Ivan Jáč apologizes from 14:00 to 19:00 for work reasons. I'm asking if anyone has a proposal to amend an approved 33rd meeting program. I don't see any applications, so we're going to continue according to what the Chamber of Deputies have already approved. So it's time for the point.
