ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u1	159. Government's attitude towards problems in financing social services I ask an authorized member of the government, which is Minister Maláčová, to take the floor and, at the same time, may sit down. Then Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur, will take the floor of the appellants' representatives on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset of my speech, I would like to remind you that the support of social services has increased considerably over the last five years of the Government of the Social Democratic Minister. Let us remember 2010 and the time of the Ministry's administration by Minister Drábek. At the time, the subsidy was trivial 6.83 billion. CZK and many social services...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can express herself... I'm begging for peace one more time. So if you, honourable Members, have nothing on the subject, please discuss it in front of the O.R. so that the Minister can comment. She's a lady, so she doesn't have to raise her voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u4	So let us remember 2010 and the time of the Ministry's administration by Minister Drábek. The subsidies then amounted to CZK 6.83 billion, and many social services had to end or fought for survival. On the other hand, this year we have historically the highest subsidy, namely 15.72 billion crowns. But that's not all. As of 1 August 2016, the care allowance was increased by 10 percent in all stages. From 1 April 2019 there will be an increase in the care allowance in the fourth degree depending on 19 200 crowns and from 1 July 2019 there will also be an increase in the third degree of dependence for persons under 18 to 13 900 crowns and for over 18 years to 12 800 crowns. All of this will be reflected in higher care payments for field and outpatient social services. The priority of social democracy is well paid and quality workers of social services. There has therefore been an increase in wages and wages in this area by more than 55 percent over the last five years. In this context and in the future, we want to further increase the financial evaluation of employees while at the same time setting up better support for informal carers so that cooperation between outpatient and field social services providers and informal carers is more effective. We are also preparing this in the amendment to the Social Services Act, which is planned for legislative work in the autumn of this year. Now let me repeat a few numbers. Of course, the financing of social services is multi-sourced. So how have funds been rising in recent years? Over the last five years there has been a significant increase in funds from the state budget, respectively from the level of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Between 2014 and 2019 there was an increase of 105 percent, as I mentioned from 7.7 billion to 15,7 billion. It should also be noted that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has created a so-called national network of social services, where they are financed primarily over-regional and also unique social services. For example, these are specific services for autistics, where the MPSV has increased funds from 9 to 40 million over the last four years, or services for people with multiple sclerosis, or services provided by the National Council of Disabilities, or services for hearing and visually impaired, or victims of crimes. This must also be added to the participation in the care allowance. It's increased by 27 percent. And this is not included this year's increase in the care allowance. In total, MPSV accounts for around 25 billion per year, which is more than half of the total cost of social services. The share of users through payments increased by 17 percent from 6.93 billion to 8.14 billion between 2014 and 2017. This was due to an increase in old-age and disability pensions and an increase in the number of clients. Clients now account for around 21 percent of the total cost. The participation of the regions increased between 2014 and 2019, but it is still only 1/10 of the total cost of social services. The growth of the community's participation is the lowest from the level of self-government, namely only 7 percent of the total cost. In doing so, it should be recalled that the regions' revenue from the budgetary determination of taxes increased between 2013 and 2017 from less than 47 billion to less than 65 billion, i.e. by almost 40 percent, and the municipalities increased tax revenues from the budgetary determination of taxes from 162, less than 162 billion to 206 billion, i.e. by almost 30 percent, by 45 billion over the same period. Co-financing was not increased in social services so as to correspond to the increase in the budgetary determination of taxes. As far as funding from the Employment Operational Programme is concerned, we have come out here to meet the regions and, as soon as I arrived, we have reviewed the call by increasing the funds for social services by CZK 1.5 billion. This amount was not expected by our Ministry when the draft state budget for this year was prepared in June 2018. Each region can therefore either extend its individual projects or prepare a new project. All that matters is how they choose. The funds will also be eligible from January this year, and therefore the CZK 800 billion blackout we have counted in the preparation of the draft state budget is no longer relevant at the moment. The increase is important, we do not question that. However, I suggest that we sit back at the common table for negotiations and to clarify the demands. I am therefore prepared, together with the regions and the Ministry of Finance, to act on how and how much social services are to be financed for this year, because our numbers and numbers that fall in public space differ from threefold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u5	I now ask that the representatives of the plaintiffs of this item, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. You agree, thank you. So you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u6	Good afternoon, Madam Secretary, or Madam Secretary, Mr President, dear colleagues, colleagues. I'll follow up on the secretary. It used to be a logical custom for me, in my opinion, to begin with with the appearance of the plaintiffs' representatives, so that the Gesture Minister or Government representative could then respond to the suggestions of the plaintiffs, but I also do not oppose this model. First of all, I would like to thank you, my fellow Members, who have supported the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, which, in my view, proves that you are aware of the problem that has arisen in the financing of social services this year. Thank you for this and I hope that the discussion that will take place here this afternoon will contribute to an accelerated financing solution for this year. And the ambition is to open up systemic changes, because the problems with financing social services have a systemic nature and it is necessary to talk about it, it is necessary to talk about it. I've already mentioned here when we wanted to include this point that we need to go back not too far, and it's basically until December of last year when we approved the budget for this year. There was quite a heated discussion about the amount that needs to be allocated to subsidies for the operation of social services. Amendments from the KDU-ČSL workshop, Pirates, ODS for financing 800 or 900 million crowns have fallen. Unfortunately, neither the government nor the government coalitions have agreed to this proposal. We had already announced that there would be a problem, that the calculations that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had at that time - and here it must be said that the calculations initially, sometime during the working hours with providers last September, were similar to ours. That means that there was a deficit in funding. There was talk somewhere about the sum of one billion crowns. However, the government finally agreed, the government coalition, that it did not feel the problem. Only CZK 200 million was funded - and what happened? There has been a situation that we have announced - and I can say for myself that I am not pleased - that already in February of this year gradually started coming from the regions, and not only from providers, but also from regions as institutions, information about the fact that approved - and the Minister has repeatedly said this here in response to my interpelation - record allocation of CZK 15,7 billion is insufficient. We talked about the reasons. Madam Secretary mentioned a number of numbers here today. She said the numbers didn't match that her numbers and numbers from the providers weren't in correlation. But maybe it's the attitude, too. It may also be what anyone wants to see. And I am convinced that when you had the opportunity here this morning from representatives of several dozen providers to take over their appeals, on which they were able to agree across the Republic, it must be said that these providers are not always in friendly relations - if there is a correlation with the conclusions of the Social Commission of the Association of Regions, which has also come to an amount which is correlated with the amount they call providers, I am convinced that we need to talk about how we are going to deal with the situation. The amount that came from individual regions - and these are data from individual regions, from municipalities and from regional authorities - has drawn close to the sum of CZK 3.1 billion, which are missing to finance social services. At the same time, however, after the discussion of both the Social Commission and the Association of Providers, there is a set amount, or all of these participants agreed that it is necessary to finance at least CZK 2.1 billion in order not to reduce the services provided. [[14.50 hours]] The Minister mentioned some other financial amounts that were allocated by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to social services. I don't want to question it. However, it should be noted that the fact that there has been an increase in tariff rates, that there has been an increase in special charges, and that this increase has not been given sufficient allocation from the State budget, is indisputable. The providers have calculated and are currently appealing to the government across the Republic, with their funds being enough to operate until September of this year. That means, I want to ask if the government has the heart to allow some types of social services to be reduced in the regions in the autumn of this year. It needs to be realized that, first of all, if I'm a social service provider, I won't have too many solutions on my desk. If I provide both residential and outpatient services and field services, I will, of course, reach out to those field and outpatient services in the first line. What will that mean in practice? Families who tend to care for their loved ones mostly for 24 hours will take it away. They care very much for him, and of course they use field social services to do it, because they often wouldn't have lasted otherwise. But if there is no funding for social services, this kind of care will be limited in the regions. What can happen next? The other alternative for social service providers is to limit preventive programmes. This means limiting the operation of civil meetings, social activation services and various types of advice. If we admit it today, and we've been over it here, that we have more than 800,000 people in debt trapped today, I'm asking who's gonna take responsibility for helping these people. Once again, I ask if the government and the government coalition have the heart to divide these people and tell them: unfortunately, the last quarter of 2019 of the service you have used so far will not work. That is why I am pleased that the debate can take place here today, and I would like to ask the Government for an opinion as to how it is prepared to address this situation. Madam Secretary said she was ready to sit at the joint table with providers and regional representatives. I appreciate that, of course. But it is also necessary to see the time horizon, and it is also necessary to see the political position of the government coalition, whether it is really ready to finance social services amounting to CZK 2.1 billion. There have also been reports that the regions are still little involved in the financing of social services. I beg to differ with the Minister here. In general, it is recommended that the regions should participate somewhere around 20 percent. The situation in some regions does not reach this amount. However, it is not true that all regions share only 10 percent. And that's what the statistics exist for. In my motherland, the Vysočina Region, where, among other things, 220 million crowns are missing for this year, and we are among the smallest regions, in my motherland the amount of co-financing is somewhere around 19 percent. So I don't agree with the fact that the county doesn't participate. And then we also need to look at other components that are related to the financing of social services. Social services also need a material-technical base. And we know well that the state does not finance investment activities. We have repeatedly discussed the ISPROFIN for financing new capacities or reconstructions. And we know that this allocation, which is somewhere around half a billion, and it's significantly less this year, is several times smaller than those requirements. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is usually required for more than CZK 2 billion for reconstructions and new capacities in social services. And this activity is replaced by regions that invest quite a lot in their social services in that particular investment area. Of course, it has been very often supported by European funds so far. But it needs to be realized that this support is almost over at this point. That means, that's another aspect that needs to be realized. And I do not agree that the weight of this financing should only be on the outskirts and villages. And then there's another aspect that needs to be mentioned, and that's what I'm getting at with the long-term intentions, and that's the health component of social services. We know well that although in recent years, and I appreciate that, payments for home health care have been increased to health and nursing care in residential services. However, it is still well below the costs of these services. If there is no funding for this component, and that is, of course, for the Minister of Health, there is a real risk that nurses will leave these types of services, because at the moment there has been an increase in hospital-type bedding facilities, that is, of course, a good thing, but those nurses will be running away from social services. This means that these are other things that need to be dealt with in this context. And this is my next question or subject towards the government, how the government is prepared to systematically address long-term problems in financing social services. This means that it is heading towards the amendment to the Social Services Act, which was mentioned here by the Minister, and I firmly believe that we will be familiar with its outlines within the framework of the Committee on Social Policy. But it also applies to the valorisation of payments for home health care and for health care in social services. So, in conclusion, allow me to appeal to the government to introduce us to the clear and time-limited steps it will take to finance social services in 2019, and to what system steps it has prepared to change the financing of social services, preferably in the multi-annual financing model, which should be the goal to which we should aim, how to level up the deficit in healthcare payments and how it will continue to combat the personnel decimation that we are experiencing in social services. Once again, we are here to fight for, of course, the salaries of social services workers, because we know they deserve it. But the equation is absolutely clear. If we do not have well paid and motivated workers in social services, they will leave us. Today, they have the options to go to. If we do not have workers in social services, in the first phase we will collapse some types of field and outpatient services and in the next phase of course we will also have problems in those residential services. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention, and I believe that the members of the government, as well as the Ministry of Finance, for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and for the Ministry of Health will express themselves on this issue and present to us the plan, at least the short-term one, how they will finance social services for 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u7	So, thank you, and I am now launching a general debate in which I have a number of Members of Parliament and Members. So I first call on Mr Petr Beitl to take the floor and to prepare Mr Vít Kaňkovský again. . Yes, you are downloading, so then Mr. Jan Bauer will be prepared. [[Mr Kaňkovsky suggests that he is withdrawing the application]] And I am asking the Chamber of Deputies for peace to hear what the Member says. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, I would like to join the demands of the Association of Regions and all social services providers to increase the subsidy on social services of more than CZK 2 billion. The Minister here spoke about the pace of rising social service costs, but I think we all realize that this trend will follow us constantly in the coming years, and we need to do what Dr. Kaňkovský said, plan to finance those services in the short, medium and long term, so that the system does not go through permanent crises, and organizations do not feel a permanent sense of danger. I sat on the Social Committee of the Liberec Region last week with representatives of many organizations, and from their mouths everything was announced, but not the peace and security of some future, so that they could focus on the main subject of their business. [[15.00 hours]] I believe that the situation in the whole sector is very far from balanced. And the fact that funding is in a permanent tilt, the fact that operators have to face rising wages, rising energy prices, makes their work very difficult, because it is precisely this increase that is not accompanied by increasing funds. Dr. Kaňkovský also talked about the fact that when approving the budget of the Republic, this amount is usually cut off to finance social services, not increased, and then caught up in both budget adjustments and during the debates that we are going to have here today. An example of such a regulation can also be the regulation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the increase in wages in the public sector by 7 %, for which no funding was then provided. And I believe - and I think we can agree that it is in the interest of all of us that this very important and indispensable system, consisting of hundreds of organizations, should be stabilized both in the present time and in the future. That is why I am also very much in favour of financing the increase in the wages and salaries of social services workers at the moment, in order to finance the decline in income from European sources in the year when the first individual projects for social prevention services end, and to complement the co-financing of the system for decentralization of psychiatric care. However, organisations dealing with social services need not only budget money, but also methodological and systemic assistance. And here I would mention the long-term requirement of social services operators to increase payment limits for accommodation and food. The residence facilities are mainly used by seniors, and the limits of which should be linked to the income of seniors, to their pensions, have not been revised since 2014. Therefore, the operators are going to the 2014 prices. The argument by the Ministry that increasing the limits for catering and accommodation services in residential facilities would have economically burdened, threatened the poverty of senior households is totally odd and shows how incompetent access can sometimes be from the Ministry's officials. They are elderly people who live in residential facilities and are not threatened by poverty through legal regulations. Each client of such equipment is protected by a minimum of 15 per cent of his income and at the same time by the maximum annual amount of medical supplements, which is in the amount of one thousand crowns. The maximum rates are currently 170 CZK per meal and 210 CZK per accommodation. And as I said, they come from 2014. Indeed, at rising wage prices, energy, services, food, and other commodities, they do not correspond to reality. This is still indirectly due to discrimination against elderly people who live in households and are not protected by any regulation, because they have to pay ever-increasing market prices on their own, even if rising pensions. The impact of this increase would not have been seen until seniors who have a monthly income of more than CZK 14,823 - that is how it is calculated. I don't think this group of seniors who have a pension like this should be the target group of the social measures we're talking about. And against the illogicalities you mentioned, social service providers must then look for the means to pay the difference between the payment limit and the reality under ever greater pressure in their already tense budgets. For example, our regional facilities Turnov's health-social services will have to look for more than half a million crowns in their budget this year because of the difference between the real prices that they receive on invoices and the payment limits. Either in your own budget or in your founder's budget. As far as the entire supply sector is concerned, this amount is estimated at CZK 300 million per year; CZK 300 million that providers could choose from their clients without endangering them in any way and which could contribute to improving these services. Another similar legitimate requirement is, in my view, the abolition of the regulatory mechanisms of the payment order for a large group of social service providers who are not beneficiaries of state subsidies. These social service providers fulfil all legal obligations, registration, qualification conditions including social service quality standards and are not beneficiaries of any public support. Although they use only private resources, they do not have the possibility to set a remuneration for services at the level of actual costs. Indeed, the main task of the State in this area should be to pay in due time the services I order from social services organisations while minimizing their intervention and regulation where providers are able to choose the necessary funds from their clients. If the state is behind on funding, at least let's not put our hands on the operators. In practice, it would be an effective aid to abolish payment limits for basic social service activities for subsidy services, to abolish all regulatory mechanisms for social services that are not beneficiaries of State subsidies, and to continuously increase the upper rates of regulation depending on inflation and on the growth of old-age pensions. Finally, I would like to thank all the workers who are working in this sector and who are constantly carrying out this work, which is rather a mission under the current conditions. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the will that has been declared here, to sit at the round table and talk about solving these problems as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u9	I am next calling on Mr Jan Bauer. And Mr. Marian Jurečka will be ready. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Honza - from last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the social status of our country, as presented by the Minister here, according to the figures and at first sight may look very good, on the other hand, the reality in practice - and now I think that it should focus or raise the attention of mainly the present captains or representatives of the captains, mayors or vice- mayors - is not that optimistic. And the degree of disbelief or criticism that came to us in the form of letters from the Association of Social Services Providers or from the association that brings together individual regions is certainly a consequence. I would like to say that, on the one hand, it is good that this point has reached the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would therefore like to thank my colleagues, especially my colleague Kaňkovský, because there is no doubt that the system of financing social services is in danger. Among other things, for this reason, because it was Mr Vít Kaňkovský who proposed this point, I think that he really should have been given priority as part of the introduction of this material. On the other hand, I think it is really very sad that the current government has let the system of financing social services go so far that that is why this extraordinary item had to be included in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and itself. The Chamber of Deputies is to address the situation in jeopardy as part of the financing of social services. I believe that not only yesterday, but today we have discussed a lot of different points here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore not everyone - I do not want to underestimate anyone - is actually clear what social services are. But let me just briefly say one sentence: Social services are those caregivers, caregivers, health professionals and other people who, among other things, take care of our parents, grandparents, relatives or old people or some other handicapped people in a very often miserable financial assessment in my opinion, and that is why we have this item here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary. [[15.10 hours]] You know, the fact that the social services financing system in our country is in danger is not new information for those of you who have been doing this for a long time, because, among other things, at the end of last year, when we approved and discussed the draft state budget for 2019, many Members spoke very well here. I must say that, not only on my part, amendments have been tabled, which should have significantly strengthened the financing of social services, and I will therefore just remind you that I myself personally proposed to increase the financing of the social services system by CZK 929 million, including at the expense of benefits in material distress. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been adopted, so for this reason, I feel that neither the government nor the relevant ministry have felt that the system can get into some major problem in the course of 2019. I myself am in practice in very close contact with social services providers in my hometown of Prachatice. I work very closely with the Association of Public Service Organizations. Among other things, I have to say that I feel justified criticism that the financing system is getting into a long-term problem with which nothing is being dealt with, and there is no doubt that we need systemic and well-thought-out changes that ensure fair distribution of finance according to the real need. I feel that maybe I'll change that opinion today after the Secretary's speech that nothing is going on for the long term or working on these changes. I just briefly allow myself to sum up things that are very critical of providers and which are worth mentioning here. Firstly, it is an issue of unequal wages. Undoubtedly, the wage level of social services workers varies depending on whether they work in a contribution or non-profit organisation. People in nonprofits are rewarded worse, which is due to the setting of grant titles. The second set of problems concerns the need for multiannual funding. Here, let me say that non-profits providing social services are exposed to logically permanent uncertainty, because they receive money for only one year, and their activities cannot be viewed in any way as annual projects, because those projects are continuous. Annual financing does not allow a reasonable level of planning, which is logical. Another set of problems that I feel on their part and which should be raised here is a funding cycle that does not undoubtedly correspond to the accounting period, and it is true that nonprofits receive funds only during spring and until then live in uncertainty and it is common for employees to receive only minimum wages in the first months of the year. The last circuit is the range of services provided. Here, nonprofit organizations provide more than 60 percent of all social services in our country, and in the area of non-residential, i.e. field services, this trend and the ratio is much higher. Last but not least, I would also like to say that I am a South Bohemian Member, we are all from somewhere, and I must say that the South Bohemian Region itself is facing the problem of funding, and in our case the lack of funds is around CZK 400 million. In conclusion, fellow Members and colleagues. I would very much like that not only through the debate that is going on here or still going on, and thanks to any resolutions that may be proposed, the Czech Government has actually discussed and started to address the system of financing social services, which is, I have repeated it several times today, in my opinion, at risk. I would also like the members of the government to reread the programming declarations that I have at my disposal here, particularly page 9, where their idea of financing social services is described in detail, and that they also do not embezzle this programming statement again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u11	Thank you. Now one apology, virtually. cancellation of the apology. Mr Mikuláš Peksa cancels his apology by the end of the day and is already in the hall and will be by the end of the day. I now call on Mr Marian Jurečka to speak and to prepare Mrs Golasowská. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, I do not see the Minister of Health here right now, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this issue here today, although I would rather this problem be resolved. However, I feel that unfortunately, this government will prefer to solve the discount for students and seniors instead of focusing on who will really be able to take care of people who are seriously ill, who die, who need a hand in need. This is what affects me in a situation where it has been known since last year that there is not enough funding for those who provide social services to people with no difference in age, gender, who are simply in a difficult life situation, help families cope with the care of dying people. We, as KDU-ČSL, proposed an increase last year in the approval of the state budget. It was then rejected, and let's just say a symbolic proposal for an increase of CZK 200 million from the communist workshop passed here. But it was already known that it wasn't enough. The Minister has argued here that there are budgets and funds for the regions, cities and municipalities to be more involved. That's how the Prime Minister answered me when I asked him about it in my interview. But there's one big catch. I think that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not have an analysis that would be able to say where, in which locations what types of social services are needed in terms of demographics, population health and the like, because then they would not be able to say on such a flat-rate basis that there are resources. Since there are obviously municipalities that may be in so-called structurally affected regions, small municipalities with a lot of local parts, which simply have a different demographic structure by depopulation, there is a larger percentage of older people who need these services more, and it is not fair to say flat-rate "you finance it" towards these municipalities when often these municipalities are not able to finance even the basic needs, such as the territorial plan of the municipality they are supposed to have. This is simply not a solution to problems and knowledge of the situation that prevails in many parts of the Czech Republic. It is also not responsible for those providers who provide these services. Because what legal framework are they entitled to come to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, and say, "We in your territory, in your community, the city, provide this and this service to so many and so many people, do we not have the funds that did not provide us with a contribution from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to finance it"? There's no claim to that. It's voluntary. If he's an enlightened mayor, the council will decide, and today they're gonna give the money. But by far, not always and everywhere, the mayor or the council will be held responsible. Then there's the second problem. Logically, these village leaders also ask: And to what extent do you provide these services here when you ask for money from us? Who? Again - a white spot on the map of legislation, because the provider cannot properly communicate such information to the mayor. And I understand the mayor who, if he's going to decide to issue some part of the budget, wants to know why, and what the reason is. That's the first big problem. Next. Today, there are many other expenses on the shoulders of the regions that must be financed. To read here and argue by increasing the revenue of the regions from the budgetary determination of taxes - it sounds awfully nice, the numbers, but let's see that today the regions have a problem financing the health facilities themselves. There are regions that have lost hundreds of millions of crowns here. There are regions that are unable to finance investments in the roads of the second and third classes, in bridges, in matters relating to the security of citizens, but in another part of life. So, alibistically, say, "You, nice country, pay it," it just doesn't work out that way. In the meantime, the Prime Minister is able to make a public promise and therefore give a clear message to those social services employees that their salaries and wages will increase by 7 percent this year. And when we look at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget, it grew by 12,9 percent year on year, from 489 billion to 552 billion, but the budget earmarked for funding social services only increased by 4.2 percent. Somehow the 7 percent that was promised from the Prime Minister's mouth didn't reach those people. [[15.20 hours]] Now, Madam Secretary, take the situation of those directors who are going to work in the retail sector today, where the cashier has more money than the average salary of a social service worker, and he may not have any higher vocational education or higher education. They are in a situation where they have responded to the promises made by the Prime Minister, and they have adjusted the level of salaries and wages since the beginning of the year, and now they have a schedule from individual regions in February, and they are looking at it and they are saying: we have the same or greater scope of care and the number of clients has grown, but the funding for this coverage has simply not arrived. How are we supposed to look these people in the eye and say, "get it done, work somehow"? I can't imagine how these directors can plan investment activities systematically in the long run, how can they give certainty, stability to people who work there and provide those services? We sin that much of these people who work there have it not only as a job but as a life's mission. And it would be good for you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Finance and Minister of Health and Prime Minister, to tell these people when those promises fell, how, when and how much these financial claims, which are justified, how they will be covered, so that even those employees who are due to receive the money will know. During our coalition government, we tried to communicate these things earlier, so that even the regional council could quickly convene, update budgets, because it simply cannot come to that information sometime in August, September, and then save it at the last minute. So I ask you nicely, I appeal to you, to the government, to the Prime Minister, to the competent ministers, to deal with the acute situation that is now, but also systemicly long-term, that we simply cannot take into account what awaits us in the future - and we know that the population is getting older, that care for us, who will also be old, is just more demanding and demanding - to give confidence to these people with what they can count on and how they can plan their activities in the future. Thank you for your attention and for answering the specifics of what the government will do and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u13	I will now request a speech from Mrs Golasowská and prepare Mrs Mračková. You have the floor, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a lovely afternoon, dear colleagues. Beautiful afternoon, although we are dealing with such a serious problem as the 2 billion deficit that is lacking in social services. Two billion, that's not $20 million or $200 million, but $2 billion, which is a lot of money. Because I was a person of practice when I joined social services 15 years ago, the financial situation was exactly the same. That means social services have asked for funding every year, it's now, and there's always been a shortage of funds. Social services also now address uncertainty every year, uncertainty about the financing of operations, about the financing of staff. I worked in the services of social prevention, which was counseling for victims of domestic violence and social activation services for families with children. And these services, as has already been said here, are most at risk of dampening their activities, of closing down, of making people work there on short-time jobs, or of simply not having those services at all. Last year we were discussing whether or not the Istanbul Convention was to be ratified. We have referred here to the need to protect victims of domestic violence. And I think we're all for, yes, victims of domestic violence need to be protected. But how are we gonna protect them if we don't have the money to pay them now that there's no money in counseling for domestic violence victims? How we want to provide or network even more services for victims of domestic violence, as we want them - as has been said many times since the counter, that we want those services to be available not only to the clients of the capital and the major cities, but also to really in some villages, so that they do not need a hundred kilometers to be available to them. I know how I dealt with the fact that we didn't have the resources for professional staff, because those counseling sessions require professional staff. Besides social workers, there's a psychologist, there's a lawyer. Really, the finances weren't often received. Also field services, as I mentioned here, social activation services for families with children, it is a very important service, it is a preventive service. And we all know that if we put money in preventive services, we'll get it back a lot; And the money, it's a lot lower than when we're dealing with the consequences of a family breakup. The problems in families really are huge. There's debts, there's addiction, there's a loss of housing, there's problems with children, there's school attendance, there's education, etc. I would like to say that we have a lot of action plans, different development plans and everything, but when it comes to having funding for those services and for what we have planned - planning is necessary, it is necessary and necessary, but if we do not submit it by not having money for those services, it will really just stay on paper. I have been in the past - and my colleagues have also interviewed the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs several times, whether to think about the possibility of multiannual funding for social services, or also to make social services fall under the regime of mandatorial expenses, so that those providers can be sure and provide that assurance to their employees. Because if you imagine that you're working in the service where you just don't know if you're gonna have the job in a few months because there won't be any money, and the Social Services Association says that the funds will be there by September - and then what? A hand on the heart, let's just say, what if we didn't get paid, colleagues and colleagues? I don't think we'd like that either. And in social services, it's a real threat. I myself experienced that we couldn't afford salaries. I experienced that I had to lay off my employees because 2012 was so critical that the Silesian Diacony was really releasing about 80-100 people. And she wasn't the only one. It was about charity and other organizations. Just to give you an idea. The average salary of a worker in social services, some social services - it concerns the nonprofit sector, because there is a difference between an employee in the nonprofit sector and a contribution organisation, there is no dispute - in some social services, 23,000 crowns are gross. Hrubý. Perhaps the distinction between "social worker" and "worker in social services." A social worker under the Social Services Act must have either a higher education or a higher professional, a social worker - just when he has a course. So this distinction - social workers who must have higher or higher vocational education, their average salary in some social services is CZK 23,000 gross. Remember, it's 8,000 below the average wage, which is now plus minus 31,000 crowns. It has also been said here that hearts work in social services. They are people who simply have a relationship with the job, who do not like to leave it, but really sometimes for financial reasons and also for reasons of uncertainty they are forced to leave it and simply go elsewhere. For illustration. In the Moravian-Silesian region, more than 400 million... 413... or 418... sort of. [[Member Ivo Vondrák from the bench: Four hundred and thirteen.]] [[with a smile]] The Governor tells me. In Frýdek-Místek 8 million, Silesian Diacony is missing 30 million crowns. [[15.30 hours]] I'm also talking about what the secretary said. I understand that the funding for social services is still increasing, but we also need to realise that the number of clients is increasing and the number of services is increasing. Also, a minimum salary has been raised since January and some European projects are also ending this year. And I ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I also ask the Minister of Finance to find the necessary money for social services that social services need for their work, it's 2 billion, because otherwise we'll lose the employees I mentioned as heartmakers. We can close these services or we can shut them down, and the services will really go in emergency mode. And who's gonna suffer that? The client suffers from this and the quality of the services provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u15	I would therefore now like to call on Mrs Jana Mračková to speak, Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me, too, to comment on the financing of social services. And I dare say that I will now speak for all the captains and captains, because this is a topic that is discussed by both the Social Commission of the Association of Regions and the Council of the Association of Regions, which is represented by all the captains. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Kaňkovský for coming forward with this proposal to include this item. However, I would like to go back a little before 2017, when the budget for 2018 was approved when the original draft budget was that the regions would receive for social services providers, I will speak roughly, 12 billion. Crowns. There have been a number of amendments, one of them, and it has been established, Mrs Aulická, that there has been an increase of 3 billion. Crowns. It was really historic that it succeeded, and I can say that the regions really received enough funding in the social services in 2018, yet they financed a number of services from their budgets. The Minister's mouth has been heard here today, I don't know if I've heard it well, but there's one tenth of the country's share. There is no way I can agree with that, and I cannot say at all who passed it on. At this point, I would go back to 2018, when we were discussing the 2019 budget here, and a number of Members were saying that it is necessary for the budget chapter to be increased precisely for social service providers, because the amount proposed is not included in the seven percent increase in salaries and that there is about 5%, that there is no additional funding for both individual projects and for the reform of psychiatric care. Then, once again, after all these speeches and in terms of the state budget, Mrs Aulickáý's amendment has been supported and there has been an increase of 200 million. Crowns. At that point, surely the regions were not satisfied at all, but they thought: well, it should cover about 5 percent - 2 percent missing. But when we all approved the budget together, no one knew one important thing, and that's that 17. There was a government meeting on December and material was submitted to the government, which did not go into the comment procedure and which the regions could not in any way comment on. This item was placed on the government during the negotiations and brought an increase in the special surcharge from CZK 600 to CZK 1,820. I would really consider it fair that if he wanted to raise a special premium, and I understand that it was in connection with the fact that there was an increase in special supplements for nurses, that the regions would know about it, that they would be dealt with in some way. And what I find completely unfair is that it was December 17, when all regions already have their budgets approved, so we learned this information from the Association of Social Services Providers. I am convinced that all the officers have learned this from their councillors and deputy ministers when they come to them, that they need to finance social services in such a large volume and the amount estimated is 500 miles. Crowns. I agree that the numbers are very different. I already have about the fourth or fifth table that I have received, but I still think and appreciate what has been said here today by the Minister that she is willing to sit down with these data, because we need to talk about the things that I need at this point on my desk, and that is, for example, that it has been approved by 15 billion. 720 million, but I have information that 15 billion have so far been distributed to the counties. 120 miles, so that's one thing we need to figure out. We need to clarify the blackout of European resources for preventive services. Many regions say that they will have several months to finance from their budgets until a request to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been approved again. Madam Secretary here today said that projects can be extended. So that's the thing that we have to sort of figure out. What the regions will certainly demand and what they consider to be very unfair is a special surcharge, because there is the point that for social services workers at the moment it is two extras to which they are entitled. And really on December 17, approve material on government that is not discussed with the regions, the regions have no information about it and learn about it practically in February, so I think it is very unfair to the regions. The Association of Regions will have its meeting on 11 April in the Plzeň Region. We invited the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to this meeting. Unfortunately, she didn't confirm our involvement. According to the information I have from the Association's office, we have been offered a visit by Deputy Director Povšík. I think the situation is so serious and so important that the chief partner is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We would very much like you to reconsider, Madam Secretary, and come to the Association Council meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u17	I would therefore now ask for a speech by Mrs Hana Aulická. Mr Petr Pávek will be ready. [[Aulická warns that Minister Maláčová wants to speak.]] Madam Secretary wanted to get off? Yes, Madam Secretary with priority rights. Please. And then Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u18	I'm just going to respond briefly. At the Regional Association meeting, I apologized for attending the EPSO Council, which is the EU Council - an EU legislative body that takes place three times a year. There are things that are voted with unanimity, and I would be the only EU Secretary 28, who would not attend the EPSO Council. But I did offer you another term, so here's the deal. I will not comment on the special bonus. It was a matter of direct instruction from the Prime Minister, and I think we should talk this out with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u19	I will therefore now ask for the speech of Mrs Aulická and Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really know what to start with, because there was talk of need in previous speeches, and I would say that this is already an escalating situation. And I have to say a few important facts that may not be said on purpose, or maybe they are unknown. In any case, I have a table available here through the President, Mr Golasowská. The Moravian-Silesian region is short of exactly 418 million, or they are asking for funding. It has been said that it is currently missing, or the regions are asking for at least 2 billion. This figure, which was evaluated in the context of funding requirements, is 3.736 billion, but optimally the regions really ask at least those 2 billion so as not to collapse, respectively. to the end of some preventive services this year, because the funds for this really lack. I think that, above all, within the coalition, and we will probably be adopting some resolutions here today, which are also talking about it, and the Labor Minister has said that she wants to discuss further financing or possible financing with representatives of the Association of Regions. I'm very happy for you. But I think it would be primarily for the current coalition to de facto sit down and say what priorities are and how to really find the money within the two billion this year. I understand that this is not just about social services, that there are other matters. Anyway, I think there was a big problem in the negotiations in 2018. And that negotiation was meant to be openly told what the real things were. I do not understand the representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs when the Minister spoke that the numbers and requirements differ from the Ministry of Labour and from the Association of Regions. I must say that the representatives, and now I don't know if the secretary was at the last session of the Association of Regions, really found any synergies in the arguments both from the regions and, of course, from the Ministry of Labour. And I really think that mostly all regions are doing their best to make all the funded social services that go through them, the finances that go through them, so that they can really save them. But I also have a bit of a problem with how we use this increase to individual projects here, because I would like to say that, of course, these regions are constantly using calls to support social services. Unfortunately, the approval process is so difficult that the project plan must first be approved in the programming partnership, where we have about 30 days to deliver an opinion, and they are not to sit until April, and the money is insufficient and they will sometimes reach them until the beginning of autumn. That means it doesn't solve the county situation this year. We're talking about 2020. But this year, even in the context of an increase, the regions are worried that the funds just won't get to them. I would also like to say that even the special premium on the roughly, Mrs Vildumetzová here said that he was mentioned, about 500 million. Of course, I can't back it up or not. It's just the calculations she probably got from the County Association. Anyway, I would've included it in that $2 billion. And we should probably really appeal tonight that not only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but the entire government has really sat down and secured a joint meeting with regional representatives and really put together arguments on which they agree and on which the finances should be found. Because I really see that when you get told on the edge, and we as the Ústí Region ask again the most, over 2 billion, and if you are missing over 460 million and just for that increase you are missing about some 335 million, and when they tell you that at the end of the year or after the holidays you will miss preventive services, that they will just end up, that it is really at the expense of the others, so I think that this is something that we cannot afford because we have been calling here for a long time, and it is, of course, about the priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself, and we have long been calling for the primary long-term care, but we know that even the 2018 budget is quite slashed on this part. This is not only in the context of social services, but also in other areas such as funding for the OSPODs and other things. And we are very sorry that we are actually coming to this part of the debate, when really the regions, and I think they also have press conferences and they are really giving this appeal because they know that today's point is being discussed, so that we are getting it to this point. And I think that, unfortunately, at the beginning of that year, there was the lack of communication. I'm not going to talk today, and I don't want to talk about whether it was from the representatives of the Association of Regions, from the Ministry of Labour, or from the Ministry of Finance. I think the communication was supposed to be primarily on the side of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Anyway, I take it as a government as a whole. And if we're talking about the threat that we're really at risk of shutting down social services this year, I think as Members, and you're all representing your region here, then we really should start talking about what we're going to do about it. I also understand that the finances aren't like we're handing out back and forth. But that's exactly what we're talking about here just with the care allowance that we don't make systemic decisions. Consider that only the care allowance today increases to 31 billion per year. 31 billion. I even have information that in some county, I'm not saying that everywhere, in some county, we're starting to have clients pulling out of our residential care because there's an increase in the allowance in the fourth and then it's going to be in the third degree. This means that we may also be talking about the possible deterioration of care, I don't want to say that the home is more tragic or worse, no way, but we can also talk about the deterioration of care because we have divided systemically, as some say, the care and increase in the care allowance, when we only funded domestic care. But we didn't even talk about the residential facilities. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been promising for two years to change the funding of social services. It's all moving again. There are other proposals and other issues that they want to include. But I have to say that we've been calling for at least two years now, or all these regions are calling for a change in funding to change or cancel, so that municipalities and cities are obliged to participate, because, as we all know, bright cities are just helping, but we also have glowing cities that do not participate in the financing of social services in any way, or just in a minimal way. And I really think that there should be a change and it should be one of the priorities not only for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but for the whole government, because if we're talking about the number of social services growing constantly, so we're constantly growing the need for funding, so I think that today's spending and necessity, or at all what the regions originally wanted, the 20 billion, the demands, I think we're no longer talking about a small package of finance that really needs to be dealt with in the state budget. And we have to say that as you're all sitting here, I don't think that you've ever met the needs of yourself or your own family in order to need social services. I think I'm the most able to speak for the Ústí Region. We have the broadest number of social services and have already been forced to preserve the social network precisely to rethink it, the ever-increasing finances, and to really optimize the need for various social services, but for that we need the synergies of all the municipalities and cities to really cooperate with us and to deal with the needs of our citizens throughout the region. And I really think that the priority should be first of all a legislative change in the financing of social services and simplification, because the way we see it now and within the framework of the 14 different methodologies, and it's very highlighted, I don't think it's entirely optimal. And we perceive that even those regions are, of course, trying to improve their published methodologies every year, so that the redistribution is as optimal as possible for providers. [[15.50 hours]] That's why I would really appeal to start having a system solution so that we don't throw one punch in there, then the motion comes back, because it's before the election, there's a cut in there, but to realize that everything we do has an impact. And so that we can coordinate. I think that even some issues, additions or changes should really be extended, even in order to prepare this properly and to minimise the impact on our citizens. So for us - we will be very happy to have representatives of the Association of Regions and representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs sitting at one table and, of course, probably the Minister of Finance, but I would say that the biggest stumbling block is that there was mainly communication missing during the negotiations on the budget for 2019. And I might not like to say it, but I feel that some of the agreements that were made during the various negotiations, and this really wasn't on the side of the Treasury, which was trying to be very helpful, so I don't think some of the representatives realized what all this could mean and what it would mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u21	I will now ask for Mr Petr Pávek's speech and Mrs Pekarová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I want to share with you the experience of the director of the retirement home. That's the institution I went from to this institution, so I know about the problem of funding, personnel and intersecting two fields. The first part of my act will include talking about how it works in that retirement home. The retirement home I am talking about lies in Jindřichovice pod Smrkem, the Liberec Region, the border region, in a village with less than 700 inhabitants, which means it is itself facing the budget. It's a county facility, a contribution organization, i.e. the State, region and clients participate in the financing of this pension home. About a third time. That means, I don't know where the number 10 percent came from. The truth is that about 30% went from subsidies from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, about a third went from the Liberec Region and about a third we collected from our clients, i.e. pensioners. The retirement home has two ingredients, a home for seniors, which is getting smaller and smaller, and then a home with a special regime, these are people who are affected by elderly or other dementias. And basically, this group is gradually pushing out that classic group of seniors. Working in that retirement home is extremely demanding, especially for caregivers. The caregivers were doing less than the minimum wage according to the MPSV tables. It's just incredible that if we here or the ministry decides to raise for example. minimum wages, so it doesn't immediately show up in the pay tables. So when I raised the caregivers' salary to the minimum wage level, I was punished for it by withdrawing the fees. I think it was worth keeping the caregivers at least. Try to imagine how demanding and difficult the work of caregivers is. They have to move mostly unmobile people who are heavy. They have to cater for all their needs. He has to change them, he has to feed them. They take turns day and night. For the night there was one facility, there was only one caretaker for one house, because that's all we were able to cover financially. We couldn't even leave them there in two. More and more of these clients require medical attention. Health care cannot be performed by caregivers. That means we have to have medical personnel there, understand nurses. Their salaries are consistent with the spreadsheets that are not from the MPSV, but from the Ministry of Health. Health care pays are much higher, so those nurses are better honored. But what's the point of this reality when we know that we have a shortage of labour on the market? When we see wages and wages growing in all other sectors in this sector, which is so important, with an ageing generation and its dependence on care, whether domestic or constitutional, do these salaries simply freeze or are completely inadequate and inadequate? Basically, there was never any money to cover medical personnel' wages. Today, if medical facilities are being pulled over by nurses, medical staff in general, private hospitals or regional hospitals are offering a relatively high amount of money when recruiting, those nurses can earn quite decent money if they are in the service regime, so they leave these social facilities. That means, it's just that the ambulance is bothering, the hospitals are being burdened. Because if the retirement home can't do some of those things simply because it's forbidden by law, they have to call an ambulance and have the person taken to the hospital. That's so expensive. And it's not humanly dignified either. So I just wanted to let you guys know how the situation works. And the second part of the speech will be political, but not party. I think it's extremely irresponsible of us and the Ministry to just decide to raise salaries here from the green table in any sphere. And now I'm talking about a decision, and now I'm not talking about promises like we were debating a teacher who was promised it, but it hasn't been decided yet. The social services workers have been decided, and we don't have the budget cover? Then, my dear colleagues, we are acting very irresponsible ourselves and the government is acting very irresponsible. And this doesn't have political subtext, I don't involve partiality. I say that if the government has decided to raise salaries in the social sphere and for good reasons, because the social sphere is simply depopulation for us and there is no staff who would still want to carry out the work and be able to do it, then it is therefore very irresponsible and basically reprehensible if it does not have the funds allocated to it. So I would like to thank my colleague Kaňkovský from this point of view, who has put his work on this, here tabled amendments which I consider to be good, I will certainly vote for them, and I would very much like you to support them, too, and if the Minister of Finance had found in that budget the funds that have been decided on. It is not possible to roll it further to the edge and the village. As I explained to you, all situations are not the same. I am talking about specific cases in the border areas where these facilities have been historically standing for decades and decades in the territory of the villages facing the budget themselves. No contribution can be expected from them. And the county can't do it either. I explained to you how the funding actually took place in thirds. What's interesting is the retirement home I'm talking about had 70 beds, had 70 clients, there was a queue of hundreds more. Normally on a waiting list it never got on. Because the clients they sent us from LDN were preferred. Just people who were really desperate for both health and social, and just the LDN will keep them there for three months, then throw them out on the street. If they're lucky, he'll take them back for three months, and after six months, because he can't do anything else, after six months, he'll leave them on the street. That means these people end up in these institutions, retirement homes and homes with a special regime. And they're just doing us girls for minimum wage when they've got a director who's gonna give up pay because he's just gonna give them a raise on that minimum wage because even the tables that come from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs aren't actually following the development of the promotions that have been decided here. [[16.00 hours]] I appeal very seriously to you across the political spectrum to support the proposals that the Minister of Finance should find the funds and be funded by social services. If I've seen a real crisis in the future with an ageing population, an increase in dementia and a need for care, it's a social sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u23	Thank you and I will now read one apology. Mr Ivan Bartoš apologizes between 16 and 19 a.m. today because of the negotiations. So now I call on Mrs Pekarová to step forward and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. prosit, Madame, you have the floor and, consequently, with priority rights, the President of the ODS Stanjura, after Mrs Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Vít Kaňkovský very much for his inclusion, for the initiation of this point at all and for the formulation of the resolution, which I would like very much to support in approving here. There is an alternative resolution which I think will probably present in a moment, Mrs Valachová, which I have already had the opportunity to read, and I must say that it is too soft to say what is happening in social services right now, and I think it is fair that the House requires a term period - just as it is in Mr Kaňkovský's motion for a resolution - points that will have some clear output, because otherwise it is all very general wording, which may not lead to any result at all. Of course, we also support the financing of the demands of the regions that have been mentioned here many times. So I do not want to repeat or repeat myself too much to other colleagues who have already acted, because I also consider it very important that we finance to workers and workers in social services what is due to them on the basis of the salary increases that they actually deserve, because they are one of the worst-paid professions ever. And, of course, at some other time than in times of economic growth, we should also try to increase their appreciation for their very difficult but very important and socially important work. So, in this regard, I can only support this financing, of course. The TOP 09, of course, also supported the amendments tabled by Members in this area at the time of the approval of the budget for 2019 and tried to prevent what we are witnessing today from happening at all. Unfortunately they did not pass, so today there are more than 2 billion crowns missing, which actually mark the functioning of social services. I can see that the coalition is acting very intensively during this point, too, but I would like to know a few things from the Minister, who are also very important about, say, changes in funding for the future, so that we can finally get out of this only from year to year of financing for the whole sector, but to offer a perspective on multiannual funding. And I wonder when the law that would finally introduce this amendment will be put forward, because if I know that we have already recorded these efforts here in the last parliamentary term, but they have been unsuccessful and have not been able to discuss the changes, I fear that today, when we have about two and a half years before the elections, there is not much left of that time, because these are really major major changes, and they mostly bring a whole range of different comments, hundreds of them are dealing with them, and it is certainly not an easy thing to look for, and therefore, it is really time that we have the possibility to discuss this proposal as soon as possible. I am also afraid that the system, as set up because we have changed the rules of financing since 2016 and moved to the competence of the regions, does not always work well. Feedback from individual social facilities or facilities that provide social services from individual regions is such that it really depends very much on the will of the region to help those who may not be included, which are not established directly by regions which are non-profit organizations, etc. They face more and more problems, but of course it's different from the edge. That is why I think it is very important for us to approve in this resolution item number two, which is now calling on the government to present an analysis of the functionality of this current funding model, and I would very much ask that the differences in individual regions be remembered there, because really the feedback from the field is such that, even if it is an organisation that operates across the whole Republic, 14 different approaches of the regions must be followed, these approaches are very different depending on who, for example, is involved in that region from political representatives. That is why I am asking for the number two support here in the resolution. I think that this information will be very important for the discussion of any future legislation and that it can also be very important feedback for voters before the regional elections that await us next year, because, indeed, somewhere, this approach to social services as such is very important. And the last thing that bothered me, as a Prague Member, at a time when this change was being discussed, and which, when I remind my colleagues who weren't there at the time or didn't pay so much attention to the area, was the big subject of the talks, namely the individual coefficients, as set out in the percentages that are precisely against Prague, which count on the fact that Prague is a rich region, so that it can afford to finance social services from its own, and although Prague is certainly not poor and rich within the Republic, it is a significant difference, for example, but I do not think that there should be any differences between the regions in this regard. At the time it was simply fair to say, due to the fact that the regions were headed by the regions, only in Prague, there were social democrats everywhere. That was the time when the captains were Social Democrats. In Prague it was when the coalition ruled with the participation of the TOP 09, with the mayor for the TOP 09, and so it was just convenient for Prague to sharpen in this direction, and it was also politically passable. It really is. There is no need to paint anything pink in this regard. And I think that this is unfair to the citizens of Prague and that this coefficient should change in the future so that it is fair, because according to the population, it is roughly comparable to the Moravian-Silesian region, but the Moravian-Silesian region has almost 12 per cent in the coefficient, whereas Prague is almost 8 per cent if I round it, which is 4% of the difference, which is certainly a small sum when we take it in absolute terms. So in this regard, I would like to appeal to us, in the framework of the amendment and the evaluation, to come to an equalization of this particular injustice. So as for the funding, I would just be here and just repeating a lot of what was said here. I very much want the government to be able to save money elsewhere in these matters and to be able to provide the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the regions so that we can finance such essential and important services that are relevant to them, it can be said, almost every one of our fellow citizens, because each one of us has someone in our family, in our neighborhood who needs such a service, using someone who needs it, and if not, it can very easily be that we will have one of our loved ones. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u25	Thank you, too, Madame. Good afternoon, everyone in this quiet meeting. Next, Mr Kobza will speak with a factual remark, then with priority rights, President Stanjura. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon. I would like to thank all those who take part in this discussion for very valuable contributions. As you know, a year ago, I organized a seminar on social gaps in our system, which was aimed at homeless people, which, according to the public media, we have some 62 to 65,000 registered, and about 350,000 people who are in material distress. I listened very carefully to the figures concerning the social services budget and could not remember my amendments to the budget that the government coalition had thrown off my table when I suggested that instead of supporting Bosnian beekeepers or Bosnian cheesemakers and Georgian beekeepers, to be precise, we should support our own needs. So I would like to mention this issue with the fact that in our budget, the funds that are spent in my opinion are very limitedly effective, while people who really need help are very difficult to achieve for those funds. As for the 62,000 homeless, about a quarter of them are resocialized, but without their own help or their own efforts, they are unable to do so. They really need that help, and then they're grateful for it. Again, the fact is that these people are recruited by social services workers because they know the environment and they have the trust of those people. So I would just like to make these few comments and thank you again for this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u27	Thank you for your time, and please, Prime Minister Stanjura. Mrs Valachová will be ready for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u28	The Vice-President said we were having such a quiet discussion, so I'm gonna try to get it going a little bit, so it shouldn't be so boring. Let's try to get the news in the last ten days. Last Monday, the Coalition Council, a big success, a parent's appointment. First, drawn to who put it through, after legitimate parental protests, who actually suggested it, and everyone's against it, and there's no money. Last night, we voted on teachers' salaries this morning. The government coalition behaved in a similar way - there is no money. Now we are debating the missing 2 billion, when some government MPs are looking so surprised that they didn't see it coming. So let me remind you that we have suggested e.g. 1 billion in the state budget. You laughed at us, you rejected the amendment - and now here you are so seriously and calmly debating what a big problem this is. I think the Minister is indeed a dignified follow-up to Vladimír Špidla's policy and his winged "sources are." Sources are, resources are. And the last ten days have shown that the ATM that the secretary of money has been in stops spending money. They're not there anymore. To parents, to teachers' salaries, to social services. But the secretary's still dating the card, and he's got other ideas to pull out of the vending machine. And the money's running out. Well, that's about as close as we're gonna get to the bottom of this debate as the last ten days that the ATM's gotten stuck. Now, about the problem we're dealing with. There's little here, little for my taste, there's talk of clients in the debate. I think that these salaries are certainly important, but a mere increase in salaries is simply not enough to improve the situation in the provision of social services. Yesterday I'm with my colleague, Mr. docent. He was debating the changes in health care with Svoboda, and he pointed to a fact that was not emphasized in the public debate, a leap increase in the length of life in the Czech Republic over the last thirty years. It is the highest number within Europe. Health care is better and more expensive. And the fact that five and a half years later, when the Socialists and the YES movement rule, the government didn't actually look properly at unnecessary spending - unnecessary spending - because the ATM worked, the taxpayers paid, and spent money. There's no question that the $2 billion is needed. Yes, tabular salaries have increased in contribution organisations, but in non-profit organizations where there are no salaries, but wages, there is far from such an increase. We are repeatedly discussing, at least for the last three years, maybe longer, the fact that the same phenomenon is repeated, that, in fact, at the beginning of each year, the organization does not know what the contributions of the state, the region, the municipalities and how it will actually manage. I don't think we need a law to do that so we can have multiannual funding. I think today's budget rules allow it, I think it's all about good will to try. Many cities already do, by the way, that they have multi-annual grant circuits, and, of course, that money is not being sent at the beginning for the entire term of office. And the counterargument that if someone doesn't do their duty, well, I'll stop funding if someone, for example. does not correctly account for the subsidy received. The big problem that we are not debating, and at this point in time, we should be debating, is the availability and number of social services. It's inadequate. For example, many in our generation want to take care of their parents, they are ready to pay for social services, but the social services are not coming. So apart from salaries, we have to deal with the system as a whole. Among other things, we have proposed - or proposed legislatively - that one of the deductible items in the tax return - I was at the Financial Office on Monday, such a sad week, Madam Secretary - that one of the deductible items should be the costs that the taxpayer will apply to the purchase of social or health services for his parents or grandparents. So we can also increase the amount of private money that goes into this segment. But at the same time, we need to raise the offer, whether it's field services, outpatient services and so on. Some of the previous speakers - I'm sorry, I listened to it in the office, so I don't know exactly who was talking about psychiatric care reform, which is also being talked about for a long time. And those clients come to other facilities very often, and they act very often like aggressors, and the facilities aren't ready for that. And we're doing very little in this again. I take it that we will support the resolution proposed by Mr Kaňkovský as a matter of course. We could have solved it in December on the budget. We, who communicate with the Service Providers Association, knew in advance that the numbers were small, but the government coalition pretended that it was simply not needed. But at the same time, I would like to call on the Minister to hold a serious debate, and now I do not think about the bill proposal, but within the House, within the Social Committee, about the system, that the state - who else should guarantee the system - guarantee a level playing field, a level playing field, both in the contribution organisations and in the non-profit sector, and at the same time to think about the network of services that are going to draw money, so that the offer is wider than it is today, and it is richer. [[unintelligible]] So that those who want to take care of their family members who need that care may have a chance. Of course there are places in the republic where it works without problems, but at the same time, and one of the previous speakers talked about it, there are places where it doesn't work. [[There's noise in the room.]] Mrs Pekarová here said she believes the government will start saving. Well, I don't believe it, but I can be pleasantly surprised. But if I sum up the last ten days, the parenting one - and now I'm based on the public appearances of members of the government coalition - with additional costs, someone said 6 billion, someone 8, someone 9, I understand that there are different variations, but they're units of billions, it's not small money. Here's another 2 billion. If I just add up the two problems, that means parenting and social services, I think if I say 10 billion, I'm not overreacting in some way and I'm not dramatizing. So, of course, we can get the secretary to find it in her resort. I don't think he's gonna find it there, that he's just not able to find such a large amount there, that we need some legislative changes to save something. There won't be any. So it's a task for the government as a whole. We can't leave this up to one resort, even though it has the biggest budget, but to be honest, the vast and overwhelming majority of the resources of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are mandatory expenses. [[A clue from the O.R.]] 94 percent, thank you. This means that the room for manoeuvre of any minister or minister is relatively - not relatively, it is very small. If it's 6 percent of the budget, I don't think there's any way to save 10 billion, and whoever wants the secretary to do it, it's lying to their own pockets or giving it a job that can't be done. I have another request for the secretary to stop going to the ATM. The money isn't really gonna fall out. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u29	Thank you, too. And now, Minister Maláčová. Mrs Valachová will have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take it from here. Yeah, well, I'm gonna reschedule and start over, start over. It has been said here, and now it is through the President, from Mrs Pekarová Adamová, from Mr Bauer, from President Stanjura, as we have little funding for social services. I know that all of these three people weren't members of this House at the time. However, I said this in my opening speech: At that time, for Minister Drábek, the social service budget was 6.83 billion. We have almost 16 billion today. It is such a pity that the lack of funding for social services did not draw the attention of these Members and Members through the President at the time. As far as the negotiations on the increase are concerned, I mentioned that our numbers - this is talking about 2 billion blackouts. So we have one-third of the information, our calculations, and that is why it would be good if we wanted to act in order for someone to address me on this matter. I was approached a week ago to show up, quote, "11. 4th in 16.20 to Pilsen at the Association of Regions meeting" I will be very happy to act if it allows me to do so on my time schedule. However, I will take part, as I have already mentioned, in the EPSO meeting. But I've offered other dates, and I'd be happy to meet the captains. But the assumption is that I get an analysis of the blackouts. We can't just have a triple difference in those numbers. And I also think the Minister of Finance should be involved in this meeting. I think that would be appropriate. Because if these numbers are really in the order of CZK 2 billion, that's a big problem. But once again, we're three times different in these calculations. As regards Law 108 and the amendment, in the legislative work plan, we have it placed on the government in the autumn of this year. We discussed this several times on the Social Committee. In June, we're going to perform those so-called exits and two round tables. You know that's what we did with the housing benefits in February. On Friday I will do so with the reform of the medical assessment service, in April it will be with the employment package, and so on, and so on and so on. So in June, there will be an opening to Amendment 108. And there's the proposal for stable funding, as well as all the social services network measures, they'll be there. We're gonna take a lot of things from that old big novel 108 that didn't go through the last term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u31	Thank you, too. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Jurečka. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u32	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of responding to the Secretary's speech. Most of the things and steps made by Minister Drábek bothered me. Including the project with Karta and so on. But to argue here in a debate in which we are all trying to be serious, numbers of how much was given to social services for Minister Drábek, perhaps every reasonable person understands that it is unfair. At that time there were completely different costs, there were different wages and salaries, there were different levels of wages and salaries, there were other costs for those providers, there were many things objectively different. Among other things, there was another number of people to whom these services were provided. And we know that the demography here is relentless. That we're getting older, we've had a long time to live, that the demands we're giving these services to today are bigger than that of Minister Drábek. If we're going to argue that, then put on the table, Madam Secretary, how many clients there are, how many hours in total are devoted to these clients. And then let's straighten it out. Otherwise, it's an unfair purposeful argument. I would ask if the Minister of Health Vojtěch could also comment here. Because I - even in the introductory words, my colleague Kaňkovský pointed out that this problem is not only a problem for Minister Maláčová, but it is also a problem for the unsolved part, which concerns the health department, which here has an overlap with the segment of social services. So please, Minister, you too face the problem and tell us what room you see to deal with health insurance companies. This is a debate between providers and the reimbursement of these health insurance companies. You guys should come in. And last but not least, I would like to ask that the Prime Minister, who is not here, has time to discuss the subject of parenting on Sunday - which is commendable, which I appreciate - please, nicely, Madam Secretary, both of you, take him with you to discuss with those providers, so that he too may participate in where the money is found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u33	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Munzar apologizes to us until the end of the sitting day from 17 pm for working reasons. And now, Mrs Valachová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the financing of social services and the system of financing social services is something, and I hope that we can agree on what they must participate in the mutual cooperation and will of both the state and the region and the municipalities and cities. There have been a number of contributions to the good practice of the regions and municipalities, but there have also been contributions that point out that not all municipalities are financing or financing social services more. I think that we should also acknowledge that, in terms of the future and quality of social services, we need all public funds and all resources for all citizens throughout the Republic. This does not mean, however, that the State, or perhaps the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - and I see here also the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance - wants to run away from compliance with agreements, rules and how social services are to be financed in 2019 and how they are to be financed. After all, in the past two years, the House has been discussing and subsequently financing the government. And the deals have been respected. I would like to report here that, in a detailed debate, I will read the motion for a resolution, where we would like to receive the support of the House in order to commit ourselves to starting negotiations on ensuring the financing of social services in 2019. Second thing. It was said here that, of course, from the point of view of the effectiveness of the financing of social services, it was not just about money. It's the system. And yet I perceive the debate that we still lack a predictable system of financing social services. I think we agree not to crucify one particular minister on this. And here, through the President - Zbyněk Stanjura is not present. He seems to like the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. He would therefore like to make it his concern that it is she who is responsible for the fact that we do not have a functional system for financing social services. But colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say that it is not that simple. It's not that simple. But that doesn't mean we're not doing anything. I would therefore like to report that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - and I will re-read the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate, and we are not afraid of the House, on the contrary, we want the support of the House and the agreement with the House - are processing and working on an analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing social services in the Czech Republic. And I know - towards the opposition and the opposition colleagues and the plaintiff of this point - that his considerations are also going in this direction, and that is something that we are able to accept completely, and that is something that can help us. Above all, this will help the recipients of social services themselves, users. The last thing I would like to report is the efforts of the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit an amendment to the Social Services Act and also to include an annex relating to the level of the percentage of the regions. I just want to say that it's clear that we need the analysis for that. And I think we can agree on the method that we need an analysis first, then we will have numbers and then we can vote, and then surely the Finance Minister is looking forward to a substantive discussion of the state budget for 2020. I also want to update the support here and the fact that this is our common goal, our common path. [[16.30 hours]] Finally, I would like to report that, in a detailed debate, I will read the motion for a resolution in order to obtain the support of the House for recommendations, or let us say the government's task of improving interinstitutional cooperation with a view to systematically coordinating the financing of social services in the maximum use of resources within different ministries. This is supposed to respond to what has also been said here in the debate, that we need a system that does not bother and make victims of those who receive social services use them in the territory, but, on the contrary, we are going across the street, and we know how we send funds to the territories, to the regions to ensure social services, and it does so in mutual coordination. We're ready for this, too. I would like to conclude by saying that it is clear, and this has always been the case so far, that any change in legislation is being discussed in terms of changes in the financing of social services with regions, municipalities and cities. We have rules. And, of course, the more this will be observed now, in a situation where the House itself deals with this point and the situation in the financing of social services. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the resolution in detail. You have certainly understood that not only I, but also other colleagues from the Social Democratic Club, are prepared to support at least part of the resolution of the rapporteur and rapporteur of Mr Kaňkovský, and I believe that you have made sure from my contribution that not only our club, but, without a doubt, the government is also interested in consensus and most of the House and in improving the system of financing social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u35	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Dražilová. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna cut my performance short, because there's been a lot of talk about this systemicity. I'd like to join Pekarová's colleague Adamcová in part. [[Chairman: Adams, and through me, please.]] Adams, I'm sorry. I am from the South Moravian Region, which also repeatedly draws attention to the fact that funds for social services are distributed to the regions according to the key established a few years ago. This key, in the context of increasing the cost of social services, seems to be really inadequate at the moment because it does not reflect the current needs, the current composition of social services in individual regional networks. If I speak for the South Moravian Region, our region is repeatedly forced to limit the requirements to cover the costs of services. The adjustment of the amount of the State budget's share of funds makes it impossible to grant subsidies of the same amount to the same social service as in regions with a more favourable share of the State budget. This, of course, leads to dissatisfaction from providers who provide their services to the target group in several regions, where subsidies from the South Moravian Region for the same service do not reach the amount of the grant of a time or bed in the region for example the neighbouring. If I am specific, for example Olomoucky and Zlínský kraj has 600 crowns more per capita, Region Vysočina by 375 crowns, Region Pardubicky by 370 crowns more. These differences are, of course, very difficult to recover from the budget of the region. At the same time, the South Moravian Region provides subsidies from its own budget, much higher than in other regions. We contribute CZK 236 million for 2019, which is 42 million more than last year. So, although it is clear that the population should probably not be the only criterion in determining the amount of regional subsidies, this must be taken into account as one of the most important ones in my view. Therefore, I would also like to call for an analysis of the functionality of the current financing model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u37	I, too, thank you and please Mr Válek for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u38	I will try not to repeat what has been said here from many mouths, nor will I try to find the culprit. I don't think raising nurses' salaries is what's responsible for missing money. I think the concept is really the problem. At noon, there was a press conference where all the representatives of all the clubs - from all the clubs - clearly and intelligibly said that digitalisation and electronization were something that we care about all the Members, that we would try to do this in agreement with the government. This means that I was very, very satisfied that I was useful and that we can agree on something professionally, irrespective of the party we are in, and that we are ready to move the Republic forward in this direction, so that it is for the benefit of the citizens. I think that socio-health boundaries are at least as important, if not more important than digitalisation. As has been said here, 50 percent of citizens today are state insured. I mean, they're not just mothers on maternity leave, but they're people who just can't afford to pay their insurance. And the number of these citizens will increase. Estimates are that in ten years it's going to be 6.5 million, that it's going to be, say, 60, if not more than a percent, 70 percent. The estimates are different. The birth rate is not substantially increasing and increasing among citizens who live to be older, but do not grow significantly in their Karnofský index. That means, although the citizens are older, the average is older, but they are often in very poor health and need help. They need not only health assistance, but they need help from caregivers, help from social facilities. And the definition, as the border between social and health care is given by legislation and standards, I think it is already survived at this stage. We need to discuss it again. For all these reasons, I would greatly appreciate that we should not only take this issue from the point of view of resolving the situation this year, which simply needs to be resolved. If we do not solve it, and if we do not find the strength to bind the Minister and the Government to find the money, we have failed as Members who have been elected here regardless of what party it was for. However, we should also look for a concept, and we should also look for how we will deal with the situation in the coming years. Since we have the end of March, April is coming, six months from now, we will be voting on the budget and discussing it. And the budget starts getting ready sometime during the holidays. That means it's high time we talked about what's going to happen next year and in the years to come. The situation with the socially needed will deteriorate year after year. He won't be getting any better. Therefore, I would very much like both the Minister and the Minister of Health to start working more intensively together and more intensively together, together, to submit to the Health Committee and the Social Committee a solution to the long-term situation. For me, it was a completely deterrent experience when we had a joint meeting of the parties to psychiatric care, which would require a solution where the two committees of Parliament met, both social and health, where the Senate Committee came in, where the Minister of Health was - the Minister was not. We are in a huge number of Members and Senators, we have sat in a huge number of experts who have performed there, and we have not moved an inch. Not even an inch, because we didn't know how everything was going to be handled in that social way after the holidays. All this care, no matter what anyone says, is social or health only according to the facilities it is provided. The same patient who lies in eldéence has medical care. The same patient, lying in a hospital with nowhere to transfer him, has medical care. When he's in a social welfare institution, he has social services. When he is at home, social workers come to him and care for his relatives, he has social care, and he helps the state. We're talking about patients who are in a difficult, often complex state of health, in a difficult health situation, having serious diseases, and talking about the quality of their lives. We're talking about making the quality of their lives as high as possible. We don't talk about it - it doesn't matter if we're talking about health care or social care, if these people can heal. They can't. None of us will finally heal, all of us will eventually die. There's no way around it. [[16.40 hours]] That is why we should talk about this in a really conceptual, long-term way. We should talk about this professionally and not make it out of this policy. Because this isn't politics. It's something citizens need in all our regions. It's something where there must be a complete, complete agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Both ministers must agree on how they will deal with this, not only in the short term, this year, when the solution simply has to be found! [[Strongly.]] Talking about maybe not being, it's completely illusionary and ridiculous. We just have to find him! But it's something we need to get ready for next year's budget and what we need to prepare. And don't argue with me undignifiedly here, whether we add money there or onde. We just have to take this as our absolute priority. And if we don't, we have failed as MPs!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u39	Thank you. And with a point of fact, Mr Juříček. Then the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm certainly not an expert on social issues, but if I listen to the debate that is infinite, I think that there will probably have to be a completely different consensus in the future, and that is that, of course, when we look at demographics and look at 2040, it is clear that generations will grow old and need stronger social services at all levels. First of all, I'm sure we need to redistribute what already exists within the MPSV today and make it clear, because I'm getting a lot of comments from the employment authorities about how money is being distributed inefficiently. I guess we could talk about that here for hours again. And then I guess it also needs to be said that maybe the state won't be able to finance it all. That's probably why we're gonna have to have some consensus here, co-financing families, just like we do in the world, not just in the developed world, even in the world that we think is less advanced than we are. So I think we have to look at that right over here, too. And it's also important to look at the fact that now the crisis is already coming. And I've already told the Treasury Secretary that the contracts are 10 percent lower now and maybe 30 percent lower by the end of the year. So please, there can't be just a left-wing House that's always going to give everything away, but I think we need to look at it with a short-term horizon, but I think you're right in a lot of things, that we need to look at it with a longer-term horizon and change our view that it's going to finance everything. Me, my mom - of course, my position is different. [[Time warning]] Yes, thank you. I also fund private social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u41	Thank you. The Minister is now reporting to me with priority rights. Then Madam Secretary. Mr. Health Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also applied for the floor, given that it has indeed been pointed out very rightly here that we are not only dealing with the social issue here, but we are dealing with the so-called'social issue'. health-social boundaries that have a wide range of areas. I'll only comment on some of the ones that we've been talking about. If we look at the short-term question, that means some increases in payments from public health insurance, so I must say that I strongly advocated that there should be an appropriate increase this year despite the fact that the segment of this care is not part of the payment decree on the basis of the Constitutional Court's finding, because it is simply not the providers of health services, but the social services providers, yet, of course, they receive reimbursement through the so-called "Character'. expertise 913 for nurses working with health-social services providers. And I've also advocated that these sisters get bonification for the so-called "bonification." 24-hour traffic, just like in hospitals. We negotiated this with the insurance companies. And when we look at the data on how this segment is growing, it only grows between 2018, 2019 by 11 percent - public health insurance payments. That's almost the most of all segments. Even in acute bed care goes about 9 percent year-on-year. It's about five for the others. And this extra segment is 11 percent, namely 230 million. CZK 2.5 billion in total. CZK of which health, from that health part go to the health-social services providers in 2019. When I looked at some long-term trend, payments from public health insurance increased by 250 percent between 2010 and 2019. 250 percent more money for health service providers from public health insurance. So I think that this segment of public health insurance is quite a marked increase year-on-year in recent years. So here I don't think there's any major debt from health insurance companies. I personally advocated that even these providers this year, and their nurses, should be paid for the exchange operation, when unfortunately they are not part of the government regulation, virtually. are not providers of health services to which it is paid directly by such health insurance companies. So it's just for me. I think that in this I think I am responding, through the President, to Mr Jurečka, that the negotiations with insurance companies have actually taken place and that the 11 percent increase I think is very, very solid. If we look at home care - here it has been said, there is again an increase of about 7 percent planned. So I also think a very, very good increase compared to other segments. Psychiatry reform. That's something that's been said repeatedly. I can't agree here that nothing has been done or that we haven't moved anywhere. On the contrary, this care is developing very dynamically today on the basis of various projects financed from European sources as well. And we're ready to fund community care from public health insurance. Last year, the first five community mental health centres were established. Sixteen more this year. Soon there'll be 30 of them. And health insurance companies are counting on it, and it is agreed that next year the first mental health centers, the community centers where health care is provided for mentally ill patients, will be covered by public health insurance. There's an increase of about 350 million. But, of course, we have to figure out the entry of the social component. This brings me, I would say, to the last part, and this is the long-term perspective on how to finance health services, how to finance long-term care. We have initiated, and I have agreed with the Minister that we really need to address the concept. A working group has been established. I think she might be more effective. We just had our last meeting with the secretary a few days ago. We have a clear plan, a procedure. And I agree that we need to deal with this matter conceptually, because demographic development is relentless and both ministries have to participate in this. We prepare changes - we prepare changes in payments from public health insurance, we prepare changes in legislation. And I would like us, in this parliamentary term, to come up with a really conceptual solution to the health-limit, which, as Professor Válek has said about it through the President, certainly deserves this very, very much. So it's not like we're just watching and doing nothing. On the contrary. I consider it a fundamental topic for both departments. And we have a consensus today with the Minister that we are going to be active in this and we really need this amendment law - because it will be a change of several laws, about health services, about social services, about public health insurance - to deprive the House of itself even during this parliamentary term, and this care has simply been taken much more conceptually. But no one can think that we're only going to fund it from public health insurance. This is where health insurance companies, the social system and, of course, a certain contribution of the client to hotel services etc. must participate. This is, of course, something that we need to set up so that it is fair and balanced in terms of multi-source financing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u43	I also thank Minister Vojtěch. And before we go any further, there are three factual points. First up is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, and before she gets to the microphone, I will introduce you to a note. Mrs Matušovská apologises to us from 16.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u44	Thank you for the floor. Only very quickly, because our Minister speaks for social democracy in this area, which of course we support, and with a speech as a social democracy, Kateřina Valachová has also resigned. But I want to respond very strongly to what has been said here that the left is just giving away. That's just not true. If we support and have always tried to raise salaries, to promote public services, it was to promote growth. And look at the charts of economic development, what it looked like under the governments of social democracy and what it looked like under the governments of the right. Internal consumption is a powerful engine of economic growth, and if you cut it, it just doesn't work. I reject this label here. Whatever we propose, whatever we promote in order to increase the quality of life of people, we do this with the fact that, of course, we care about people, about employees, about all other groups of people, about the availability of public services, and about the prosperity and development of the whole country. That's just how it works. These are economic theories, you can study them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u45	Thank you. Now Mr Bláha with a point of fact, then Mr Okleštěk. Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening all this time to raise salaries, more money, we need more money. I would merely add to my colleague Juříček through Mr President. No one thinks that we have the resources, but unfortunately, we're going to spend them on completely different things. No one will think about using more energy in a number of devices, using more power for building management, using more traffic, etc. etc. In all companies it is normal that employees want more and more money, and it is logical and I wish them and let's really add them because they deserve it. But let's look at it from the other side. Couldn't we spare ourselves from moving where it's uneconomic, these social facilities where it's economic? And did they look at the management of individual buildings and individual social facilities? And believe me, we'd find enough money in there to surprise everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Oklešťek, please. Mr. Jurečka will be ready. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support everything Minister Adam Vojtěch has said. I'd just like to remind you that the percentage increase is a beautiful thing, but we have to be based on a base number. This means that when there are high percentages of increases in social services in terms of wages or salaries, we need to realise that this can mean a significantly lower percentage compared to salaries in other areas. In social services, wages are long-term underlined, and we are trying to get closer to what the workers actually deserve. My previous speaker, Mr. Bláha, of course, meant things well, as is always the custom with him, but not all of us will understand. All I'm saying is that we're doing energy audits on social buildings, we're doing all the measures to make the traffic cheaper, but it can't be financed either from the regions or from the state budget. We are trying to take such measures to ensure that these facilities are economical, that in locations where the social needs are, or those who need social services, we have those facilities so that we don't put them in large facilities when they're used to other spaces, villagers, etc. So I would just like to intercede in order to continue the increase in social services salaries, not to take them lightly, and the rest will be proposed here, and I will, of course, comment on these resolutions if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u49	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Jurečka, with a factual remark. Mr. Mašek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u50	Thank you for speaking to Minister Vojtěch, whom I called for his comments. However, you said the increase is here, this is Mr. Governor. Okleštěk said that it is also a question of what basis, but I still meet in the field when I drive, with a large number of directors, individual providers who say "we have a huge problem at all getting a contract into some territory where we provide the service newly". This means that the approach of health insurance companies is really extremely conservative and rather dislike it to give the conditions for providing adequate service providers. That's what I often meet in the field. I don't know how you monitor it, how you react from the directors, but I think if you approached them as the Ministry, they asked all the providers in the Republic about their experience, you'd get a slightly different picture of the reality that's here. If you do that and you can evaluate it for a few months at a distance, I'd be very happy. I'm just gonna mention one thing here, what Mr. Mr. Bláha said. Mr. Ambassador, you're right, I'm signing. Great savings, great space for saving is in operating expenses. But when we, as KDU-ČSL, put an amendment in the budget to strengthen the financing of social services in the area of investment, this coalition did not support it. So please, take a look at yourself at home in the coalition, how many of these options... As Mr. Governor Okleštěk said here, it is not possible for the county or cities to pay for everything, because the demands for investment savings are indeed in the order of units or tens of billions of crowns to catch up on the investment debt. It's good to talk about savings, but if you come to the DPS, where the dépéeska has two or three floors and doesn't have an elevator and the director is looking for years of financing the elevator, it's hard to tell him to get a heat pump and keep it warm. This is the reality in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr Mašek, Mr Pávek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a paramedic, therefore also move in the social and social boundaries and take care of patients who consume money from both health and social. And just this weekend, I was in an ambulance, and I was in a retirement home interfering with a patient. In that retirement home, a nurse basically on the edge of her strength at the end of her shift, the only full-fledged nurse in that unnamed retirement home to 364 patients with a number of nurses. And that's the reality of today. That's a lack of personnel. We have heard the shortcomings here from Mr Jurečka through Mr President that there is no money to fix the elevator, etc. We have been talking about this, many of my previous speakers, Mr Stanjura and Professor Válek, as it moves in general, as we age as a population, we reach the age of 80 years, but we do not reach them in health, we reach them in sickness. And our neighbor, the elders, I also experience it in my family with my mother-in-law, and there is before us how we will deal with it. It's not just about securing a percentage increase in money into the system. We can do that, but we can't do it enough. It'll never be enough. And if we're going to focus on just wanting or prefering a form of some kind of hospitalization or just retirement homes and the like, it's unsolvable. I dare say here, I hope this isn't being taken in an unbalanced way, but if you go to retirement homes, you won't see old Rom people there. The families take care of them themselves. I'm not going to discuss what kind of money it is, what kind of contributions it is. However, they take care of them themselves. And in our majority population, we can't care for our relatives ourselves, virtually. We're looking for a way to get rid of them in quotes. That's why I'd like to say here that we have to do the math - I'm sorry, I can log in one more time. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u53	I'm sorry. Now Mr Pávek, Mr Okleštěk will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u54	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief remark for my colleague Bláha by your means, Mr President. We're not deciding on a pay raise here. That was decided a long time ago. We're talking about cashing out what's been decided. That's all. Then we're having a long debate here about keeping the Ministry on its toes and starting to work conceptually. That's all. So we don't decide on pay increases. That's been decided. Just about cashing him out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u55	I thank Mr Okleštek for his considerable respect for the time, and I ask Mr Oklešťek to make a point of fact. Mr Vojtěch will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have registered a comment from my colleague Jurečka. Of course, the system is that it's not a health insurance company, but the county is registering for social services providers, and if the applicant meets the proper conditions, then we have to give the registration. That's just indestructible. The problem is, we don't have to put them in the net. And the inclusion in the network, that's the drawing of those contributions, and that's where we're based on strategic documents, a medium-term plan, a long-term plan, and so on, the provision of social services, and that's how we're trying to navigate. The problem is that the population is generally getting older, so we're growing on these devices, which at least get into registration, and then they're unhappy that they don't have the resources. But what Mr Jurečka mentioned next is a socio-health border, and that is the drawing through health insurance companies. If these devices can negotiate for themselves, so they have an extra bonus. But they won't register them. We register them as regions, there is no other option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u57	I also thank and please the Minister Vojtěch, who came forward as a Member with a factual remark, then Mr Mašek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u58	Only very briefly to Mr Jurečka through Mr President. I don't want to do any education here, but it's not like that. On the contrary, these providers of social services are the only ones who have a historically so-called contractual obligation in the law. That means the insurance company is obliged to make a contract with them. No other segment has it set up like this. Everywhere else, of course, there is a network, because the insurance undertaking must ensure the availability of health services in time and locality, but this single segment has a contractual obligation in the law, which means the insurance undertaking cannot choose and must conclude a contract with the entity. It's just for lighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u59	Thank you. And now, Mr Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u60	Thank you. I didn't watch my time before, so I'm gonna finish this very quickly. It's not just about delivering the money, constantly adding, but it's really about creating a concept. And I would strongly recommend taking a look at it and calculating it in the sense that building more and more buildings, taking care of them, putting more money into them, competing for staff that is not there, versus the other option that I think is clearly more economical, and that is to strengthen domestic social and health care, and that is also what we can catch at that time, the increase in the number of patients, or the clients who need it. I think we need to do a study in this, adopt a concept for the future, so that it is balanced, so that we can actually do it financially and make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u61	Thank you for keeping time. And now, with a final point of fact, Mr Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u62	Dear colleagues, I'm glad it's still ringing. You really need to start working conceptually and systemically, which means that no company would dare, no owner, the best company would dare, not even giants, big multinationals, to have ten commanders. That means if we have one health system here, ten commanders can't manage it. This means that the Ministry, the regions, the cities and so on, should be clearly under one command. And believe me, then we'll find a bunch of vacant buildings, that we can sum up the capacity in one place. I'll just give you an example. With us up north, we have three hospitals within a 15-mile radius. Everyone needs money, everyone needs to develop, instead of making one for the 15 kilometers, and the other devices used to provide long-term care. It's simple. No one dares, and the best company, to have three races in one place. And believe that then we'd be able to gather experts there, they might have money there. That's how we have it in the whole republic - unconventional health care. Everyone I talk to knows, we say it, those who can count on it clearly support that there is a need for systemic change, but unfortunately, we are all afraid to tell the public the fullest. Don't worry, let's talk about it and I believe we're able to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u63	Thank you. That is the last factual point in the general debate at the moment. And now, then, Secretary Schillerová is the last person I have to apply at this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to this whole several-hour debate, and let me also contribute with my view to it. The financing of social services is an annual evergreen not only on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but also for social services providers, representatives of clients, social partners, media and, last but not least, for interministerial meetings and government meetings. The Social Services Act was approved in 2006 and became effective in 2007. Its aim was to create a viable demand for social services. The choice of the type of service and the specific provider of the service should have been decided by the recipient of the care allowance on the basis of his free choice. At that time, the Law was based on the assumption that a network of different types of services would respond to demand and be flexible in time and locally available. In this case, providers should also have sufficient resources to provide services for clients. The subsidy system was intended to cover the marginal part of the non-replaced services. [[There's noise in the hall!]] The assumptions remained unfulfilled. Satisfied is basically nobody. Insufficient are the capacities of field, outpatient and residential social services, which are criticized by future clients, current clients and their families. The area remains unsolved by the overlay of health and social services, long-term care. Although at least one committee dealing with the problem is active in each parliamentary term, a proper solution has not yet been submitted. The providers of social services also object to inadequate financing with unjustified differences in the amount of payments for the same services. Apart from high administrative demands, providers also have a lot of other partial reservations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u65	I'd like some peace in the room. It's getting loud in here. A colleague to my left... a colleague, please. Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u66	Thank you. Neither self-government nor government bodies are satisfied with the development of the situation; neither the executive nor the legislative power is satisfied; the topic is often politicised. Therefore, the practice seems to be long-term calling for a re-evaluation of the starting points and a fundamental change in the system. However, the substance of the problem must be addressed, not directly or indirectly supporting only the pressure of all actors on the state budget, because further escalation of expenditure by the state is not possible in the long term. Although I understand the attitude of providers, clients and self-government, I welcome the position of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on a fundamental solution to this situation. And now a few words on the situation in 2019. The position of the Ministry of Finance on additional requirements for the financing of social services is rejected not only for budgetary reasons, but mainly for procedural reasons. We are proposing and trying to push through, and we are also prepared to cooperate with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to process and subsequently to determine the mutual financing of social services according to individual financial resources and to ensure that, with each objectively necessary increase in the cost of social services, the financial coverage is secured in a specified proportion. There's no such thing yet. We continue to draw attention to the fact that the financing of social services is, and we assume that it will continue to be, multi-source, and therefore it cannot be expected that the constant increase in the cost of social services will mostly be uncovered from the state budget. [[17.10 hours]] The subsidies for social services increased from 8.6 billion between 2015 and 2019. CZK 15,7 billion. Care allowance expenditure increased from 21,2 billion over the same period. CZK 26,6 billion. Crowns. At the same time, pensions increased by almost 2,000 on average. CZK, but the so-called payment decree remains at the value of 2014. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] In view of all these reasons, I do not agree with the current requirement for a substantial increase in the social service subsidy in 2019, in particular because a fundamental system solution is needed. Of course I'm able to add graphs with numbers, I don't want to tire you of how much revenue has increased for regions, cities and municipalities. And, of course, for them to grow, they had to be properly collected and redistributed as part of the budgetary determination of taxes first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u67	Thank you, too. I have one more factual remark from Mr Pávek. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u68	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary of Finance, how did you come up with the term "additional financing"? This is not an additional financing, this is the financing of the debt that we have there as a state towards these services. This has been decided, it is nothing additional, it is not a requirement that would be in addition to the previous approved numbers. This is simply something we owe to the very facilities, whether through municipalities, the state, or through regions. This is not an additional financing. Could you answer that for me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u69	Thank you. Please, Mr Jurečka, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u70	Thank you. I'll complete the response to the Minister of Health. If I didn't say exactly that, if any, those who will read the tapestry or watch, then in my innuendo to access public health insurance companies, I meant their access to services that are off-road. However, allow me now to make a comment on the Minister of Finance. It is simply misleading to put these arguments on how much the revenues of municipalities and regions have increased within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. In the first place, the costs of services and activities must be increased. The cost of construction contracts eight, ten years ago was completely different than it is today. The same - the cost of salaries and wages is also rising. But the other way around, so I can take advantage of that logic towards the Treasury, so I can start listing here how much tax revenues the state has grown over the last few years. How much are the budgets of ministries growing? In my opening speech, I said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget increased by more than 12 percent year on year between 2018 and 2019. Yet the part of social services was not adequate to the promise given by the Prime Minister and the government. So these are the arguments... Then tell your captains and captains, who are primarily for your two government coalition parties, that you do not want to give them the money, to take it out of the money they have on infrastructure to finance investment in education, health care, and then it will be a fair debate. But putting these numbers here, so unilaterally interpreting them, it's just unprofessional and unfair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u71	Thank you. These are all the factual points at the moment, and so are all the applications for the debate that I have. It doesn't look like anyone else is reporting, so I'm ending the general debate and I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. First Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I would very briefly sum up the debate. I think that we will respond to individual issues, to technical questions and comments, within the two round tables that we are planning in June after we kick out the starting point for the debate on the amendment to the Social Services Act, when we come up with a system solution for both funding and, in fact, the creation of a social services network. Once again, we have negotiated a record high budget of 15,7 billion this year. Crowns. In addition to these funds and unexpectedly right after taking up office, I have re-allocated 1.5 billion from the Employment Operational Programme. individual projects. But I'm prepared to discuss all these things. I think it would be very useful to do so with the participation of all other actors, but the prerequisite for the debate is a proper analysis of the blackout, because our numbers are fundamentally different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u73	Thank you, too. And now I ask the rapporteur for his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u74	Good evening. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, I would like to briefly summarize today's debate on the topic of social services financing. As it turns out, representatives of most of the House's MPs have spoken. I appreciate the fact that the debate was very factual and that it really covered the topic of financing social services. I will just briefly sum up some of the contributions, with the fact that I will then announce that in a detailed debate, I will read the revised motion for a resolution and accept the comment that has been made by the representatives of the captains here in the debate. I appreciate the comment, and I think it's factual. Then I'll comment on it. Just for a little while to see some performances. With regard to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's speech, I appreciate the fact that the Association of Regions is facing this problem, that it really perceives it, just as the rest of us perceive it. I would also agree with the argument she made here. Of course the clarification of numbers is important and here I appreciate the approach of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance that they are willing to sit at a round table or square table and really clarify the numbers. However, all indications suggest that at least 2 billion. We miss them at this point, these numbers don't really go that far. I would appeal very much to the fact that, in particular, the term, which will be directed at the first resolution, is really early. Because if we're talking about funding for the holidays here, the position of smaller providers in particular will be very difficult, and they can't keep their employees in line, so to speak, or promise them that they'll probably come. They really need their perspective for the whole calendar year. And again, here I am pointing out, and maybe I also refer briefly to the contribution made by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, the President, by means of the President, I think that we have also discussed the clients here because it is about them. We don't do it here for employees, we do it for them so that we have the care and, of course, to feel comfortable in our work, but there's always this client at the end of the chain. And if we want to make it possible for our clients, we need motivated and well-paid social services workers. So I believe the government will actually take it. However, I think that trust, but check, and therefore, in my first resolution, I propose the date of 20 April to get information as the Chamber of Deputies on how the government will actually deal with the financing of 2019. So much for Mrs Mračková's contribution, or vice versa. [[A Member with a smile nods in agreement.]] Then I would also like to mention the financing of health care in social services. This has already been heard from my fellow Member, Marian Jurečka, and also in the reaction of the Minister. Of course, I agree that in recent years there has been a significant increase in health care payments in social services, both in field and in residential. However, other factors have been partially mentioned here by Mr. Governor Oklešťek, and I thank you for this, which must be mentioned in the context. The increase in percentage and increase in absolute amount does not mean anything about the need for health care in both bed and field services. The population is not only getting older, but we are seeing more and more patients, clients who have polymorbidity, who are actually affected by a number of diseases. And the need, when you look at the most residential services today, I've been visiting them for a number of years, at least five and a half years since I've been here in the House, and you take the structure of patients in senior homes, in homes with a special regime, and in other residential services five years ago, and today, the composition of clients is completely different, they really need a lot more health care. And that must be reflected in the payments. [[17.20 hours]] That means, it's not just about the salaries of health workers, it's very important. This is where we need to talk about the base we came from when we were raising. But we need to talk about structure and need, about the total amount of health care. Unfortunately, it has grown significantly, and we cannot respond to that at this point. Therefore, the appeal towards the Ministry of Health, health insurance companies, to work with this in the 2020 forecast and, of course, in the medium term. With regard to the co-financing of the regions, I have been an opposition regional representative in the Vysočina Region for the sixth year, so I would not have to have any ambition to defend the regions. However, I will do this because the regions, at least if I can speak for the Vysočina Region, but I know this from a number of other regions, are actually actively involved in co-financing social services. And as I said in my introductory words, it is not only about operating costs, but the regions finance or co-finance investment activities in social services. And it's significant. This means that we cannot take full responsibility for the financing of the operation at the edge. It's just not possible. I would really encourage caution here. And here I will stand up for the captains, even if they are from other political parties. Indeed, the regions have also announced that they are willing to participate in co-financing, but we cannot pass it on to them in its entirety. Then I'll briefly mention the deficit that might occur. It sounded like a lot of sides again, and I thank you for that. But let us really remember that if we shut down some types of social services for the last quarter of this year, we will have a big problem starting them up again. If social services workers leave, let us not be illusioned that if funding changes next year, we will recover it. I've seen it at the hospital. If a nurse's department left us, they eventually returned perhaps in a time of economic crisis, but only some of them did. So much from me to today's debate. Thank you for her. Thank you for your willingness not only to discuss this topic, but to look for a solution for this year. Finally, I will stress what has also been said here from most of the contributions, and this is the conceptual approach to future flights. This means that the government is preparing a major amendment to the Social Services Act. I would merely urge that the term actually be respected, because the big amendment to the Social Services Act will not be a simple material and there is a great assumption that it will be here in the House for some time, that we will discuss this very widely. This means, if we want to make it through this parliamentary term, it is necessary to present it this year, otherwise the situation may occur as in the last parliamentary term, when we received it a few months before the end of the parliamentary term and it was not possible to approve the amendment. So much for me. In a detailed debate, I am going to read the motion for a resolution, as I have announced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u75	Thank you. Those were the final words. I have no proposals that should be voted on now. So we will proceed to the detailed debate to which Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs Valachová, Mr Beitl, is registered. [["Beats" spoken]] I ask Mr Kaňkovský and, at the same time, everyone to submit their proposals to the rapporteur in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u76	Good evening again. As I have already announced, I submit a motion for a resolution on today's paragraph 159 on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on problems with the financing of social services. I would like to begin by asking, then, in the vote, for the various resolutions to be voted after the points, that is, we have four points of the resolution to vote separately. "1. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit by 20 April 2019 a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to accelerate the financing of social services for 2019 amounting to CZK 2,072 billion under the approved resolution of the Commission for Social Affairs of the Czech Association of Regions." '2. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 30. 9. 2019 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing of social services in the Czech Republic according to the provisions of Section 101a of the Act on Social Services, comparing the impact on the provision of social services in individual regions." It's just a little delivery. I agree with what my colleagues have said here, it is also necessary to evaluate the impact of this annex, that is, the coefficients for individual regions, and it is necessary to consider these coefficients not only on the basis of population, but also on demographic structures and sociopathological phenomena in individual regions. I think that these coefficients should be set in several factors, it should not only be based on population. "3. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government," and here was the change that I accepted, and I thank the representatives of the governor for it, "to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, including amendments to Section 101a and the Annex to this Act concerning the percentage of regions in the total annual amount of funding for social services, which will respond to an analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing of social services in the Czech Republic in order to eliminate interregional differences." '4. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 31. 7. 2019 has submitted a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to valorise payments in 925 - home health care, 913 - General Nurse in Social Services and Expertise 926 - mobile specialized palliative care since 2020.' And in parentheses: "In case the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic is due to an agreement within the so-called. The conciliation procedure shall determine, in the public interest, the payment parameters for 2020.'; That is, if there is an agreement in the conciliation procedure, then this point falls. Thank you for your attention and I will also be happy to support these resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u77	Thank you. Please take your role as rapporteur again. And now, please, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, read the motion for a resolution for the Chamber of Deputies. "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. asks the Government to open negotiations on ensuring the financing of social services in 2019 based on the output of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, II. Recommends to the Government to improve inter-ministerial cooperation with a view to systematically coordinating the financing of social services in the maximum use of resources within various departments.' That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u79	Thank you. Please submit your proposal to the rapporteur. I beg Mr Beitl, who I apologize for misrepresenting his name. [[pronounced "bajtla']] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u80	Thank you. I'll take an apology, but I'm used to it. I would also like to read in agreement with Dr Kaňkovský paragraph 5 of his resolution. 5. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to increase six years of unvalued payment limits for implementing Decree 505/2006 Coll. to the Social Services Act number 108/2006, i.e. from 1 August 2019 increase the maximum possible rate by a total of CZK 20 and 20 a day, this is the maximum daily rate of CZK 190 - now CZK 170, and the maximum daily rate for accommodation of CZK 230 - now CZK 210. I note that this is a requirement of the Union of Employment Unions, which brings together all relevant associations and associations of social services providers of the Czech Republic. And once again, these amounts have not been audited since 2014. Threatened groups of seniors are protected against this increase by further regulation, according to which the client of the accommodation facility must remain 15 percent of the income. Finally, I just want to say that the longer we postpone this increase, the more the scissors open between regulated amounts and reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u81	Thank you, too. That's the last application for a debate at the moment. It seems that no one is going into a detailed debate anymore, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask again whether there is an interest in the final words after a detailed debate from the appellant or from the Minister. It's not like that. So we should proceed to the vote. I'll call the O.R. [[Gong.]] There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out. I will ask the rapporteur to guide us first through the procedure and then through individual proposals. We'll wait for all the MPs to arrive and there'll be more peace in the room... I think we can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u82	Good evening again. We have three motions for resolutions. It is a motion for a resolution which I have tabled, and it is also a proposal by Mrs Valachová and Mr Beitl. I just want to say that I don't have the last proposal at my disposal, so I'd like to ask the petitioner if he could deliver it to me. As far as the proposal for a procedure is concerned, I propose that we vote as it was read, with the fact that I proposed to vote on points for myself. I don't know if Mrs Valachová... points too. And Mr Beitl has only one proposal. So much for designing the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u83	I think the procedure is understandable. However, just to be sure, I'm gonna let her vote. So I'm going to vote on the procedure. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 321 votes 163 Members and Members, for 163, against no one, so the procedure was unanimously approved. Please, rapporteur, continue. I would ask you to load individual points so that we know what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u84	Proposal No 1, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies by 20 April t. r. to accelerate the financing of social services for 2019 amounting to 2,072 billion. CZK according to the approved resolution of the Commission on Social Affairs of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u85	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 322 is 165 Members, for 72, against 2. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u86	The next proposal I have presented is item number 2: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 30. 9. 2019 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing of social services in the Czech Republic according to the provisions of Section 101a of the Act on Social Services, comparing the impact on the provision of social services in individual regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u87	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 323, 165 Members and Members are registered, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u88	Proposal 3: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to Act No.108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, including amendments to Section 101a and the Annex to this Act concerning the amount of the percentage of regions in the total annual amount of funds for social services, which will respond to the analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing of social services in the Czech Republic in order to eliminate interregional differences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u89	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 166 Members and Members registered in the 324 vote, for 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u90	And draft number 4: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 31. 7. 2019 has submitted a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for valorisation of payments in 925 - home health care, 913 - general nurse in social services and 926 - mobile specialised palliative care since 2020. In parentheses of this resolution: if the Ministry of Health is due to an agreement within the framework of the so-called The conciliation procedure shall determine, in the public interest, the payment parameters for 2020. I explained when I was loading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u91	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 325, 167 Members and Members are registered, for 74, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u92	We would also vote the resolution proposed by Mrs Valachová, point I: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to open negotiations on ensuring the financing of social services in 2019 on the basis of the output of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u93	Thank you. Initiating vote - sorry, Chairman Stanjura reporting. So I declare the vote misguided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u94	[[He's stalling!]] I'm not stalling. I'm looking forward to the Faltýnkův point. But I don't think it's Czech: It's asking the government to start. I apologize to the Member through the Vice-President, but I think it should be Czech. Is he asking the government to open? I don't think that's Czech. You may insist that it is Czech, but it is not Czech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u95	Thank you for the comment. I don't know if we're gonna be reading legislative technical corrections right now, I don't want to get into it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u96	I must say that I am no linguist or expert in Czech spelling, but I would nevertheless like to amend Mrs Valachová's proposal if she agrees with him: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to open negotiations on ensuring the financing of social services in 2019 on the basis of the output of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u97	If no one has a problem with this change, I am opening a new vote on this proposal. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 327, 167 Members and Members are registered, for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u98	We will also vote on paragraph II of Mrs Valachová: The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government improve inter-ministerial cooperation with a view to systematically coordinating the financing of social services in the maximum use of resources within various departments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u99	Thank you. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. And please take it easy in the hall! The vote number 328 includes 168 Members and Members, for 142, against 17. The motion was accepted. Please calm down and please make another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u100	Finally, we would vote on Mr Beitl's proposal, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to increase six years of unvalued payment limits in Implementing Decree No. 505/2006 Coll. to the Social Services Act No.108/2006 Coll. This means that from 1 August 2019 to increase the maximum possible rate by a total of CZK 20 and CZK 20 a day, i.e. the maximum daily rate of CZK 190, the maximum daily rate for accommodation of CZK 230. [[now 170 kroner]] [[now 210 kroner]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u101	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the number 329 vote, 168 Members and Members are enrolled, for 77, against 4. The motion was not accepted. We have now come to terms with all the proposals and we could approve the motion for a resolution as a whole. But it's not an interest. [[Laughter and entertainment in the left side of the hall.]] So we have dealt with all the proposals, the motions for resolutions in some cases have been approved. I thank you, thank you, draftsman, thank you, Minister, this is the end of the discussion and I will pass on the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-017-159.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss this point.
