ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, and other related laws /house print 409/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport is submitting a bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. The main objective of the proposal is to change the method of payment of the time fee for the use of toll roads, as well as to change the method of proof and control of such remuneration. Instead of the current method of payment of the time fee through the purchase of the motorway coupon, the part of which is placed on the vehicle's windshield, it will be possible to make the payment also cash-free via the Internet or mobile applications. The remuneration of the time fee will be recorded in the newly established information system operated by the State Transport Infrastructure Fund, in which the exemption from charging will also be registered. The exemption of vehicles from charging will be registered on the basis of notifications from operators of such vehicles addressed to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u3	I will interrupt you for a moment, Madam Secretary. I'd like to ask you not to get screamed at by the secretary. Let's hear what he has to say in peace. If you have anything, please go in front of the O.R. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u4	In the case of an exemption from charging which is linked to the transport of the holder of a ZTP or ZTP/P licence, it will be possible to notify an exemption of up to three vehicles, free of charge, and it will only be possible to use the toll road when the holder of the ZTP or ZTP/P licence is actually transported by the vehicle. Checking the payment of the time fee will be carried out in particular by means of a videodetect where, using the camera system according to the vehicle's license plate, the vehicle will be verified whether the vehicle has a paid time fee. This will stop and control primarily vehicles which have been unauthorized use of the infrastructure without payment of the time fee. The proposal also extends the range of vehicles exempted from charging by vehicles using exclusively electric energy or hydrogen as propulsion or combination with other fuels, provided that CO2 emissions do not exceed 50 g/km in combined operation. At the same time, an advantage is proposed for vehicles powered by natural gas or biomethane, for which the maximum amount of the charge is fixed compared to other vehicles at a lower level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u5	Thank you, too. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Květa Matušovská, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take up my duties and report on the news. The aim of the draft regulation, as already mentioned by the Minister, is to change the payment of the time fee for the use of toll roads, as well as to change the way in which the payment is checked. At present customs officers and police officers on toll roads are inspecting the payment of the time fee. The proposal submitted contains a new adjustment to the remuneration of the time fee in relation to the vehicle's registration plate. The payment will be recorded in the register and can be done on the Internet or mobile applications. The exemption of vehicles from charging will also be recorded in this register, on the basis of notifications by operators of such vehicles addressed to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Checking the payment of the time fee will be carried out directly in operation by means of a videodetect using a camera system that recognizes vehicle registration plates, verifying whether the vehicle has a paid time fee. The competence to carry out checks and offences will remain in the hands of entities, as I have already said, police officers and customs officers. Fixed cameras will also be placed on toll roads, which will allow for the subsequent more appropriate targeting of the check when finding more unpaid time charges on a given section of the tolled infrastructure. The proposal includes, as has already been mentioned, the extension of the charging-free vehicle circuit by vehicles using exclusively electricity or hydrogen or their combination, but provided that CO2 emissions do not exceed 50 g/km in combined traffic or disability. At the same time, the proposal envisages an advantage for vehicles powered by compressed natural gas, for which a maximum annual fee is fixed at a lower level against other vehicles. I would like to ask that this press be assigned to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u7	I also thank you and open a general debate in which Mr Adamec is the first to join. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u8	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, Madam Secretary, I would like to say, here we are at last. Finally, we come to the point that we won't have to use the classic paper road signs, but that we can just pay the toll for using the motorway network electronically. It doesn't matter how, if by cell phone, from the Internet or in some kind of electronic way. I have to say, it's perfectly fine. We will support this proposal to go to second reading. But I think there are a few things that need to be said here so that we can be very clear about this. I'm a little sorry the Minister couldn't be here today. This, of course, does not mean to diminish the importance of Minister Dostálová, or vice versa. I'm glad she took over. But I have to say, I'd really like it to work so that the police on the freeway won't stop anyone at all. Because the electronic stamp is loaded based on the license plate, and it could de facto work the same way the continuous radar works, that you'll just go home and pay. But there are a number of other problems in terms of control that need to be resolved. Because if you look at the exemption from the ZTP or ZTP/P charge, for example, that you can actually have up to three cars and that it is important that a person with that disability sits or drives it, otherwise the operator doesn't have to do it, so I don't think here without stopping the car and physical control can apply it this way. Of course, it can be applied to cars that are on alternative drives, whether it's electricity, or whether it's CNG or hydrogen, because it's clear there. The car or the car is registered to a license plate, and it's already known what kind of drive it is. So the way I would see it is that the work of the control authorities should be facilitated, that there is no need for physical control directly on the highway. By the way, if you look at what's happening on the freeway today, what other responsibilities we're trying to impose on, for example, truck drivers, and de facto, when you take the possibilities of traffic police or customs officials who can also control highway coupons, I think our efforts should be directed to ensure that these controls are carried out without human presence, so as to make it clear from a camera image whether the driver committed a misdemeanor by not actually having a paid road sign. Of course, the paper stamps will be controlled the same way, but there's no reason to stop either. They have optical instruments today to read the stamp on the windshield and see if it's really the original or not, or if it's holding the stamp in some weird way. But I see that we should still talk about this, because it is very important for me that the digitalization of this activity also eliminates the human factor. So the cops wouldn't have to stop the cars on the freeway, drive them off the lanes. It's complicated. We all know that's the problem. I also read the explanatory memorandum on the anticipated costs. I don't think that's the bad news, as described here in the explanatory memorandum. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] And maybe you guys who read it registered it -- I understand that some of you don't care, but we're all driving down that highway, so maybe it might -- maybe it actually dropped out of the alternative propane-butane drive. And the Chamber of Commerce criticizes it. I think we should take another look at this problem, because if they pay 50 grams per kilometer there, then the vehicles that are powered by this drive, if they do, I think they should at least have at least part of the exemption from the charge. Of course, supporting alternative drives - I see here as a modern step towards the future. Actually, electric cars, compressed hydrogen, don't pay anything, then there's a half rate if they meet the standard. I'd see it as positive here. So if I were to sum up, I think this bill is very positive. He deserves support. But on the other hand, we need to discuss some technical things so that there is a simplification of control so that it works very simply. If you don't have an electronic highway coupon, you'll be taken down by a camera on the freeway and found out, so you'll get a credit card and it's already running in a normal misdemeanor administration, and there's no need for physical control on the freeway. I've come across this the last time I talked to the Minister about this problem. I really have an idea that this should not be in the business of highway police or customs officials, that officials in the office can handle this. There will come a clear message, clear proof that someone has broken the rules, and that punishment can come without the physical presence of members on the highway road. I recommend that we put the second reading into the Economic Committee and discuss these issues there, and any amendments that would make it even better. That's where it belongs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u9	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mr Juříček, then Mr Kobza. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me simply respond to my colleague through the President, Mr Adamec. I don't want to talk about the substance of the law itself, but that there was such information that the electric drives were clean. They're not clean, please. Cars, electric cars are seven times more demanding to make than a classic car. Many problems with lithium and cobalt, I'm not gonna be training you here right now. However, the sum together. When you take the whole environmental footprint of an electric car, it goes about 86 grams per kilometer. So the nonsense the European Union is making up is absolutely incredible bullshit. I'm sorry about the word. It's the only way I can say it professionally. And I think some of the little things in the law need to be adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u11	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Kobza, then Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues have a good afternoon. I would also like to comment, through Mr President, on the presentation by my colleague Adamec, because I think that we are on a thin line, when, in fact, through surveillance cameras, which will control the payment of motorway charges, we are actually coming to control the movement of cars and to control the movement of persons. And I call for great caution in how this software will be set up to prevent its misuse. Because the abuse will be very easy, and then, of course, the big brother will be able to track us anywhere and wherever we go. And I think that it is totally unacceptable in a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u13	Thank you. Mr Adamec with a factual remark, then Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I shall start from the back first. Today, all modern cars are already connected to the Internet. I might have a car like this, so I know exactly where it is, if it's locked, how much has gone. And if I were to take this ad absurdum and borrow my wife's car, and if I had a little bit of a different background, and maybe I had some suspicions, I could easily track down where the car is today. By the way, when you have a cell phone, it's even easier. I understand the concern. They're in place. There's a need for caution, I understand. As far as my colleague Juříček is concerned, of course he is. But precisely because we want alternative drives for the future - and now we're somewhere in the beginning, and of course the problems are, and let's not talk about the carbon footprint, we all know that. But the effort for the future is to implement the alternative drives. We could also figure out what the cost of the hydrogen drive is, what is the trace of the hydrogen drive. I think it's working well today as part of the city's transport, when it's de facto distracted, it's going to happen somewhere else, but the buses are already running purely in that city. [[14.40 hours]] So it's very complicated. But I'm saying the road is right. The way is right, because there is no other way at the moment. And we can talk about electric cars on completely different soil, in other cases, we can explore these things. But I think this bill simply reflects the reality and the preparation for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u15	Thank you. And at this point in fact, Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u16	Good afternoon. I would like to ask colleagues in the House not to invoke the spirit of a great brother here in the coming months. The reason is very simple. Everything can be searched for, yes, but in Prague for more than two years there is a system of parking through license plates, which are captured, even by a private company that transmits the data to the Prague company. In two years, the only misuse of information data was not recorded to load essays throughout Prague. Nobody filed a complaint, no such thing being dealt with in court, no complaints filed to the police in the sense of misuse of this information. So please, let's not raise these false tracks here. Let's look for ways that are simple. I'm gonna sit at home, I don't have to go to the post office, I'm gonna pay for my annual, ten days, or how long the coupon is, and I'm out of here. I'm a foreigner, I buy it in English without a problem on the website, when I go to that country, I don't have to look for a gas station outside the border. Let's help those drivers. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u17	Thank you. Well, there's one more de facto one. Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. It seems like a good idea to me, because if we look at Slovakia or Hungary or even Croatia, that's where this system works. You could say it's a little different in Croatia because they have some boxes there. But if it's going to be in the form of reading public license plates, as it is in Hungary and Slovakia, I think the system will be automatic enough - it's only up to us to prevent abuse of vehicle movement information. When one of your colleagues here thinks, for example, that we could measure the stretch speed on the freeway in this way, I really wouldn't want that. And I believe there are a lot of people here who would say that would be good, beneficial. But we would really be watching each other every step of the way, and that really wouldn't suit me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Adamec wants to respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u20	I have been for a very short time, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, it was already here when we were having fun actually, that there were cameras on those toll gates long ago, and that the toll gates, when their main functions were over, would mean taking tolls so they wouldn't be used to measure speed. We clearly said that's not how it's gonna be, so it can't be. And I think that, given the volume of these cars, eventually, they're going to be driving down this highway, and taking these numbers, this is just not on the agenda at all, and I would be the first to object. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-003-025.u21	Thank you. So, I ask if anyone else is still interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone reporting. I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is interest in the final words - neither the appellant nor the rapporteur. The motion to return or refuse did not fall. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking if there's another proposal. I don't see anyone. [[Gong.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 302: 172 entered, for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking if anyone is interested or wants to propose another committee. I don't see anyone. That is why we have dealt with all the votes at first reading, and I am ending the first reading of this point, this press, and thank you all. I am opening paragraphs 37 and 38, where the joint debate has been voted.
