ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u1	95. The Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, signed on 15 October 2018 in Luxembourg by all the Member States of the European Union and on 19 October 2018 in Brussels for the European Union and Singapore /German press 379/ - first reading The submitted press will present Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary is already in position. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this material, the Agreement on the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, is presented in accordance with Government Resolution No 638 of 3 October 2018 approving this Agreement. The Agreement was signed in Luxembourg on 15 October 2018 by all the Member States of the European Union and on 19 October 2018 in Brussels for the European Union and Singapore. Mr Mgr signed the agreement for the Czech Republic. Jakub Dürr, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic to the EU. The agreement is now submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to its ratification. The negotiated agreement ensures a high level of protection of investments but does not interfere with state law on regulation in the public interest. However, the agreement also contains all the innovations in the EU's approach to investment protection, including enforcement mechanisms, which are not included in our valid bilateral investment agreement with Singapore. The Agreement replaces the twelve existing bilateral investment agreements with Singapore concluded by EU Member States. The agreement will ensure that EU investors and their investments in Singapore are given fair and equal treatment in order to avoid discrimination in relation to Singaporean investments. At the same time, the agreement protects EU investors and their investments in Singapore from expropriation, except in the case of expropriation for public purposes, in accordance with proper procedures on a non-discriminatory basis, while paying compensation at the level of fair market value of the expropriated investment. The Agreement also contains a modern and reformed dispute resolution mechanism consisting of a permanent first-degree tribunal and a permanent appeal tribunal which will conduct dispute settlement procedures in a transparent and impartial manner. Since its entry into force, the Agreement will also fully replace our bilateral agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the promotion and protection of investments concluded in Singapore on 8 April 1995. From the point of view of EU law, the agreement represents an international treaty called. a mixed type which is negotiated jointly by the EU and its Member States, as it also covers areas which go beyond the competence of the Union. Since the rights and obligations of persons and, respectively, of objects whose regulation is reserved for the law under the Constitution of the Czech Republic are to be regulated by this Agreement, Article 49 points. (a) and (e) this agreement must be negotiated as a presidential treaty and, therefore, approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic and ratification by the President of the Republic is necessary for its entry into force. The Agreement will therefore come into force after it has been approved by all Member States under the relevant national processes and will be agreed by the European Parliament and the relevant Council decision will be taken concluding the Agreement. The agreement is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and other parts of the rule of law, with commitments taken over under other applicable international treaties and with the generally recognised principles of international law, as well as obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the EU. Given that the agreement includes a multilateral system of courts for investment in the settlement of disputes between investors and States, it is expected that its negotiation will have a certain financial impact on the overall EU budget, on the part of expenditure. However, the agreement does not yet foresee a direct impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic. Specific financing of the multilateral system and the share of the Czech Republic in this financing has not yet been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u3	Thank you. I'll read four more apologies. Mr Petr Sadovský apologizes from 14.30 pm to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Mr Milan Hnilička apologizes from 12.00 to 13.00 for work reasons. Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologises from 13:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. And Mr Stanislav Juránek apologizes from 11.25 to the end of the day for working reasons. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Monika Červíčková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as is customary, the Minister's report was really comprehensive and exhausting, so I really do not have much left to deliver. However, it is precisely in view of the fact that this agreement corresponds to the current international standard of foreign investment protection that I propose that it be agreed and, at the same time, I propose ordering it to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for, so I will look around. I don't see interest. I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? No. Madam? Not either. We don't have the proposals. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. So I'm asking if anyone else has a proposition. I don't see another suggestion. We will take the vote. I'm gonna sing. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. We will wait until the Members and Members arrive in the hall to give room for the vote. [[12.20 hours]] There's an interest in signing off, so I'm signing you off. Please log in with your voting cards again, and I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. Who is in favour of the motion being filed being ordered to discuss the foreign... [[Alert from the right.]] I see. The voting device does not work throughout the series. Then I'll ask the authorized worker. Please, go check it out. Sorry, I can't hear you right now. We're gonna ask for control, so wait a minute. You want me to try and check you out one more time? [[No.]] Or isn't that necessary? Wait a minute. I'll get the information. Just a minute. [[Consultation with an IT employee and subsequently with other Vice-Presidents.]] Please, the problem is that there is water in the voting system with one of the Members. And so now I've agreed that it takes ten minutes to fix it. [[Voices from the diaper, tell the person to move on.]] Please, we in charge here have said that rescheduleing is not an optimal issue, that it is necessary to fix the voting device. So I'd end the controversy. I'm declaring a ten-minute break. That means we'll meet here at 12.31 and in the meantime the vote will be corrected by the Pirate Member. [[After a while:]] I'm just sorry, the President of the Pirates MP here warned me that it wasn't with the Pirates, but with the ODS MP, and so many were eliminated, including the pirát. So I'm just specifying. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u6	There. The break was until 12.31. Well, I'd like to ask the House workers, wouldn't I? [[Correction of the voting device.]] And is there a time horizon that's close... or not at all? Come tell me upstairs, please don't let us get in the way. [[Interview of IT staff with the Vice-President.]] I got the information that it takes ten more minutes, but that should be it, so just to finish the vote and not interrupt at 1:00 in vain, I'll... wait. I'm asking you to move it, so ten more minutes, and we're taking a break until 12.42. And then I have information that it should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u7	We have 12.42, so we will continue the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I will engage, because we will vote immediately. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I repeat that we are at the Government's proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic has given its consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. So I will give room for Members to come to the ballroom as soon as possible. [[He's waiting for a while.]] I will repeat once again - who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 128, registered 126 Members, for 124, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I'm done discussing this press. President of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I apologise for interrupting this negotiation of the Treaties between the European Union and Singapore. However, I believe that it is necessary for me to draw your attention to one thing that is very topical. Today we have the interpelation, unfortunately the current news regarding the ongoing police intervention we only learned this morning, so it was not possible to include this issue in the interpelation and I did not even notice anyone bringing it up. This is a case of ongoing police intervention in the headquarters of Kapsch, an intervention which allegedly also concerns the Office for the Protection of Competition and Vice-President Faltýnek, who is said not to be charged there, but his defense attorney speaks of him as a witness and conducted by the Olomouc State Attorney General. I assume you've all been familiar with this because it's happening in the media, on Czech TV, and in Právo it's said that tolling operations on Czech roads and Kapsch are the subject of the ongoing police raid. Given that the situation around Kapsch has been the subject of a public debate many times that in 2016 it was the third largest contract without competition, for 5 billion. CZK this extension, it was done on Sunday, I do not know if this case concerns it, and I think I speak for all the opponents that we do not currently have any information on the part of the Minister of Transport, who is in charge of this matter. Yet in the media it is said that this is a raid against an organized criminal group, that bribery is being dealt with there. There are persons who are connected to the ANO movement, such as Mr Švachula, who is the nominee of the ANO movement in the Czech Railways. I believe that it would be appropriate for the Minister of Transport to speak briefly with priority right here and to comment on the current information available to us, as Members of the Government, who are to control the government, to know the current information. I understand that ANO is not in the best interest of discussing things that concern his government. Nevertheless, I think that this is a fundamental thing, because there are many billions of crowns involved. Historically, we've already had one such police raid here, which has had a major impact on our political system. I believe that the Minister should deal with the fact that he will briefly explain it to us right now, the moment it is up to date, so then we will be able to negotiate the rest of the programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u9	Minister, do you wish to speak? Okay. The Minister with priority rights can actually speak, so we give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised and shocked by the rhetoric that has been said here. First of all, according to my information, the police haven't reported any charges yet. Do we, as the Chamber of Deputies, want to enter a lively case today that is not even begun? I know the only information I have that's from the media, and that the police would come to me and start telling me what's going on around the myth, that's really not happening. So I don't understand the rhetoric here. Let the police do her job. She probably knows what she's doing, or I believe she knows what she's doing. We all refer to her. So let her work and let's not do anything in the Chamber of Deputies that we only know from the media. I wasn't there for any hits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-010-095.u11	There. We will proceed to the next item on the agenda. We're on the agenda here.
