ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2003 Coll., on the responsibility of young people for unlawful acts and on the judiciary in matters of youth and on the amendment of certain laws (the Law on the judiciary in matters of youth), as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, and Act No. 293/1993 Coll., on the performance of the binding, as amended /house print 299/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Justice of Youth, Criminal Code and the Act on the Enforcement of detention immediately follows the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on procedural guarantees for children who are suspected persons in criminal proceedings, where the implementation period is 11 June 2019. In the context of this Directive, a number of legislative measures are proposed which aim in principle to strengthen the rights of young people, or children or persons close to the age of young people, in criminal proceedings. Specifically, the youth is entitled to propose a guardian who will subsequently be set up for the purposes of criminal proceedings. There is an extension of the necessary defence for a minor until he reaches the age of 21, provided that the criminal proceedings against him began at a time when he was still a minor and is therefore at an age close to the age of the young. According to our calculations, this will be a necessary defense for roughly 250 people a year, which will generate a cost for public budgets of approximately CZK four million. Other changes that are proposed include the dissemination of information that is provided to the minor or, where appropriate, to his legal representative or guardian under criminal control in order to be adequately instructed. This includes information, or lessons about the stages of criminal proceedings, the role of law enforcement authorities, the right of a legal representative or guardian to participate in acts in juvenile matters, the protection of the privacy of a youth, etc. These rights already belong to a youth under current regulation, but they are not specifically taught. Another change is to establish a rule according to which a person who is not certain whether he has reached the age of 18 or 15 years, in order to be considered to be of equal age, that is to say, a minor or a minor, until proven otherwise, as appropriate. What's going on? It is basically exceptional cases where for some reason it is no longer possible or the fact of the age of the criminal is not yet known, because perhaps we do not have his documents, we cannot identify him at that time. It is then the subject of an expert examination. However, until proven otherwise - and he claims to be a minor - he will be viewed as a juvenile. Announcement of the preference of taking audiovisual recording during interrogation, so as to make it clear that the interrogation is carried out in accordance with the rules for conducting the interrogation. Further changes are then partial changes in the arrangements for determining the conditions of the youth and compulsory drawing up a report on the personal, family and social situations and the situation of the youth, so that the court decides on the basis of all relevant facts. In the area of enforcement, it is then proposed to extend the separation of the placement of young adults in custody even after such detention is reached at the age of 18, provided that this is not contrary to other captive juveniles, which means that young people do not mix with other older people who are being prosecuted, which, of course, could be some reason for what we sometimes call a criminal infection. In the area of criminal law, there is an explicit definition of the fact that the accused must be instructed of his rights, taking into account the current stage of criminal proceedings, that is, in principle, to clarify the obligation to instruct. The draft law, if adopted as it was submitted, ensures the full implementation of the directive in question, and I am asking very much for its release until further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u3	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, this, at least from my intelligence, let's say, position, will be quite simple, because we have better legislation than the directive that has been adopted, in many ways, so we are simply supplementing it where it is not accurate enough or specific enough. Basically, we're not exactly expanding it, but we're deepening it if you'll let me have that expression. The minister here said the main areas. I would add that since the adoption of the Youth Justice Act in 2003, which took effect exactly 15 years ago, in 2004, there will also be a scientific conference in May, so indistinguishably at first, the criminality of young people registered as violent - that is sometimes not heard here - so vice and most property. We think that maybe we're moving into a virtual area, or I don't know if any of the offences committed by minors and teenagers in there could be described as crimes other than criminal or criminal, but this decline is definitely noticeable throughout Europe. So we're no exception, in our country, all the more significant that we have a special standard here. So in this respect, we are more or less implementing something that we have already modified ourselves, but we are forced to do so, and the adjustment should be even deeper and more elaborate. The only thing I would like to draw your attention to is that, as you know, the migrant world is also carrying migrant children and young people. And experience from those other, mostly Western European target countries shows that sometimes it is impossible to determine exactly whether the child is eight, nine, fourteen, fifteen. In such a case, we are leaning toward the fact that he is not 15 yet, and that he is not 18 yet. But it can be changed once, of course, it proves otherwise. And now we know from the experience of Austrian and German colleagues that the methods used are also better and can be found out very well. It wasn't like that at the beginning three years ago. And that last one, and if any of you were to say why put juveniles separately on cells when they're 19 or 20 - we've got it by 18 - I'm warning you that there's a phrase "when it's appropriate" in there. So it doesn't always have to be mandatory. And I mean, if you have any questions, you ask. Otherwise, it's no reform, no big amendment, nothing's gonna change, and we're already, I think, very well done anyway. Again, if you don't mind. Exactly with respect... may I, Mr. Vice-President? Thank you. I forgot to conclude by asking you to consider, so I suggest that you shorten the committee hearing by 30 days, because this amendment, I think, does not need much of your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u5	Thank you, but I must say that this proposal must be heard in the general debate and I have not yet opened it. So I am now opening up a general debate in which Mr Ondráček is joined. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of two ministers, colleagues, I think I know that this is not exactly a material that you would have studied thoroughly and that you would have put a great deal of emphasis on. In essence, the Minister said that this is an implementation of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 2016 and that the deadline is up in five months. He named the basic areas on which implementation is directed to those three basic laws. And the rapporteur basically said that we have a good law on the judiciary in youth matters, which, in many cases, surpasses the similar laws which, say, some other European states of the European Union have. And that we're basically just improving them. I'm sometimes a little touchy about improving, because what we always improve turns out to be the one that, as they call it, tuning isn't always necessary, and sometimes our improvement brings enough problems and misunderstanding into our legal system. And I would like to draw attention to some of the things that are in the material presented. It was mentioned that when defining the concepts of a child under 15 years of age - and now we know that it is the person who has not completed 15 years of age before the crime was committed, but it is also those who cannot be determined without reasonable doubt that they have completed the 15th year of age at the time of the crime otherwise committed. And so is the category of juveniles, i.e. persons between 15 and 18 years of age. It has been mentioned that this is not a major problem for us, but we remember very well and we have the opportunity to see thanks to social networks, as some young boys who have recently come to the European Union and have a beard like a 40-year-old man, perhaps even better, so they claim to be 12, 13 years old. They were all born 1. 1. 20. - and now, of course, an age suitable for them to be treated according to European law. So we have proven men of age - not proven. We have men in Europe who, by their appearance, construction and everything else, resemble men between the ages of 20 and 25 years old, but we expose them, I mean the European Union, to exhibit evidence that they are 13-year-old children. Sometimes we send them to our 13-year-olds, then we wonder if there are forms of bullying and bullying. So we actually say in this way that if we have such persons once in our territory and we are unable to immediately find out without reasonable doubt that they are a person older than 15, respectively. 18 years, so we always obey what this man tells us. So he'll always say, I'm under 15 years old, I'm under 18 years old, so of course it's treated like that, because it's better for him. If I look at the next thing, I will look at Section 42 Youth Rights, possibly. § 42a Necessary defence of a minor, this is all newly conceived and stated, and now listen to the relative contradiction: In the case referred to in paragraph 1, I now think of the necessary defence, the youth advocate must have until the age of 21, if the court considers it appropriate in the preparatory proceedings, the prosecutor, taking into account the degree of reasonable, moral maturity of the minor and the circumstances of the case. So we're going to assume that he's 19, 20 years old, but he's not smart enough and morally mature enough to understand the meaning of our criminal proceedings, and that's why we're leaving him a lawyer, a defense attorney, and, of course, I fully agree with that. If anyone doesn't have what it takes to see the complexity of the Czech Republic's criminal regulations, because we adults don't see it, then we'll let him have the lawyer, the defense attorney. On the other hand, Section 42 of Youth Rights states, and listen if the youth, who is between the ages of 15 and 18, is able to understand this. See if you guys can understand that as adults. And I might have a problem with that someday, too. A youth must also be taught about the stages of criminal proceedings, the role of bodies active under this law during these stages, the right of a legal representative or guardian of a youth to be instructed about the rights that belong to a youth. Furthermore, it is about the right of a legal representative or guardian of a minor to participate in those acts which a minor may participate under the law. Further, we must instruct the youth on the protection of his privacy in criminal proceedings, on the responsibilities of the bodies active under this law, with particular care to clarify and prove the causes of his error and the facts relevant to the assessment of his personal, family and other circumstances and the need to hold the main trial and public meeting in his presence, in so far as the proceedings against the fugitive are not concerned. And where appropriate - if appropriate, I don't know what the appropriate cases are, and this is what my colleagues who specialize in, I think the cops who specialize in investigating youth crime have asked me what the appropriate cases would be. Thus, where appropriate, it is necessary to teach a youth that he can only be taken into custody if the purpose of the binding cannot be otherwise achieved. That the decision to take custody must be duly substantiated. Furthermore, the duration of the link, the examination of the reasons for the link, etc. About conditions for conditional extension and other things. So, on the one hand, we say that there are teenagers who are unable to understand the meaning of criminal proceedings after reaching full maturity, and we leave them lawyers, and on the other hand, we instruct the category of juveniles, persons between the 15th and 18th years, so, or we instruct adults that they have difficulty understanding it. Why should a law enforcement authority do this when a person like that has to have a lawyer? After all, it's for a defense attorney to give this lesson to his client to do it. We'll write here that he's obliged to instruct him. Of course, a youth will say: I have not been instructed. I don't know. So it's going to be written by law enforcement again. Legal guardian or guardian. The authorities operating under this Act shall, without undue delay, instruct the legal representative or guardian of a minor about the rights that belong to the youth, if the reasons for the change cease to exist, etc. We're putting the law enforcement authorities back on the hump! Do, secure, you are obliged to instruct! And if not, we give the person who advocates the rights of the person against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted, and it doesn't matter if it's a youth or an adult, the right to file complaints against the police authority's procedure. For example, Section 55 of the Young People's Destiny states: The institutions active under this law will impose on the competent authority the child's socio-legal protection, which, if appropriate - if appropriate, will involve the juvenile legal representative or guardian in the detection of the conditions. And the authorities involved in criminal proceedings specializing in youth asked me: And a former colleague specializing in youth crime, when is this appropriate and when is it not yet appropriate? Is it always appropriate? Or isn't that appropriate? Why the concept, if that's appropriate? Thus, there will be a situation where it is an obligation, or it is not an obligation. But here it is again: if appropriate, do so. And law enforcement authorities specializing in youth ask: Zdeněk, and when is this appropriate? Give us some advice! You're the legislator who accepts these pasquila! [[13.50 hours]] And if we look at the performance of the custody, it was mentioned. Youths are placed in cells separate from others, and this is true even if a youth completes the 18th year of his age in detention, provided that this is justified by his personal circumstances and is not contrary to the best interests of the other co-placed adolescents. I can't imagine what the best interests of the other joint youngsters are, but I know what the state of prisons in the Czech Republic and detention prisons are. The Minister would certainly describe very, very well how we are full of about 108, perhaps already 110 percent, and the prisons are bursting, including the prisons in the seams. So I understand that this is an implementing standard that needs to be shrugged and accepted again something that the European Union is imposing on us under the directive of the Council of Europe... the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, but I dare say that not everything that comes from the European Parliament, and the Council of Europe, is good for Czech law. And, as the rapporteur said, the law on juvenile judicial matters is good. We have it in many cases better than it is. And why over and over again to improve something that's already good? And I understand what the conditions are. But on the other hand, I know what conditions we will prepare or what uncertainties will come for law enforcement authorities. And now I mean the police authorities, but also the prosecutor, or a judge specializing in youth crime. I would therefore like to propose that this law be rejected at first reading, although I know that most of you will not vote in favour. But I am not going to submit to any nonsense that comes from the European Union! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u7	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal. And now, please, Mr Benda, who is in the debate. Mrs Adámková has just signed up for me after I have challenged you. I was wondering if you'd prefer... Please, Mrs Adámková, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, if this proposal is adopted at first reading, as another committee, I would like to propose a Committee on Health. And that is because you know very well that in the judiciary the question of determining the age of the perpetrator is sometimes very crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u9	Thank you. I'll mark it. Now, please, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u10	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen. It happens every 20 years, maybe 50, but I have to agree with the Communist Member, Mr Ondráček. I'm afraid he's quite right. And that's three questions. First of all, we already talked about this once this morning. Again. Directive adopted pursuant to the explanatory memorandum, Directive adopted on 11 May 2016, effective from 10 June 2016 and date of implementation on 11 June 2019. When does the government come to the Chamber of Deputies with this bill? 8 October 2018. It's a perfect standard. It's been going on for two and a half years. And this is really like an incredibly simple thing. And then they come to the House and they start to say, we have to shorten the deadline to 30 days. And on a matter that, in my opinion, we really do not need, and here the rapporteur is absolutely right in that our youth justice system works very well and I would say, unlike the criminal activity of adults, where it is much more complicated, so in this youth and juvenile crime, it really works very well and we are very ahead of a number of EU countries. So the first anger is kind of for a minister who... I know he wasn't personally responsible, because he was a minister for four months at the time, but it's more like the Ministry. It's just that the executives really need to learn. And we've already talked about this here today, if any amendment to the Rules of Procedure is not to simply say, if you want a directive, you have to bring it at least eight months in advance. Eight months is the minimum time that today's legislative process is running, when we all try, and when nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing gets blocked, nothing gets slowed down in the committees. And it's not really possible to come up with the fact that in six months, in three months, sometimes even a month, I need implementation. Well, that's the first point. Second point. I wonder who negotiated it and how he negotiated it. Who's responsible for the executive. Who was responsible for the executive in the last parliamentary term for negotiating this type of directive? I am in complete conflict with everything we know in our legal order, really, that it will be considered how old who is and if there are reasonable doubts about... Our entire legal order is based on the fact that we know how old the persons concerned are. In civil law, in any other law, that's why we've all had IDs here since we were 15 years old, etc. etc. etc. And suddenly, and in criminal law, there is a situation where we begin to say: It is considered that the person with whom it is not possible without reasonable doubt to determine that, at the time of the commission of the crime, he had completed the fifteenth year of age. Even with this, like, benefit, plus benefit. No, he's supposed to present. And this fact, in a situation that Mr Ondráček has already mentioned to some extent here, that more and more people are starting to move around the European Union who may not know anything about their age or know anything about it, and they are saying something completely different from what each of us would say at first sight. So that is the second reservation that I share and where I think we should still consult the committee. It is still a bit funny that, in those points two and three - point two, you do not have a mandatory, mandatory implementation of the European directive. Point three, you already have it mandatory. Well, I don't know, maybe it's just point three. Then we can drop point two. Or someone who underlined it forgot to underline it. But that's just a point on the edge. Anyway, I think we have to deal with this. And one final point. To a certain extent, Mr Ondráček said it again, but I also apply for it. Those endless instructional duties, but I said it here in other laws. In the laws of banks, in the laws of others... The endless responsibilities we have toward everyone lead to a complete formalization of those actions. Instead of being able to say right here, we're telling you that, and that's what we're saying, you come to the police interrogation, and the first thing is that you sign five different papers that you're committed to sticking to, and that's not even a suspect. This may not even be the case against him, he's being led against someone else, but I've already given up five different rights and he's been acquainted with one or the other. This doesn't seem normal to me, and I don't think we should go deeper in those laws, because I'd say it's not very common. I do not recommend that we shorten the deadline to 30 days, because I think we can win this for a while on the Constitutional Legal Committee and that nothing will happen at all, especially given that there are European elections and God knows what the next Commission will be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u11	Thank you, too. And now I have Mr. Vice-President Filip in the debate. And let me point out that the proposal for shortening has not yet been loaded. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u12	Thank you. Mr President, members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen. I therefore respect the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs on the end of today's day, but it is not enough for me to do so for two minutes. So... So I would not like to speak in an empty hall, because, apart from what my colleague Ondráček and colleague Benda said, I have other comments, including that instructional duty. So I don't think that... If I may ask that we interrupt that point, and I'd like to comment on it when it's re-established, because I really can't make it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-015-038.u13	I understand. One minute left. The atmosphere in the hall is that we will definitely not continue today's negotiations, and therefore, in line with the custom and the agreement, we will end today's negotiations at two. I would therefore interrupt this point in the middle of a general debate and interrupt this meeting. Meet me next week at 2:00 on Tuesday. Thank you. We'll continue with the points from the second reading block. Please. Goodbye.
