ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u1	15. The proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended /German press 69/ - second reading This point has also been interrupted. He was interrupted by 14. 11. 2018 at the 20th meeting and we adjourned until 31. 12. Please take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff, Mr Radek Rozvoral, or one of the other plaintiffs. Mr Řehounek is ready for the guarantee committee. I'm asking if anyone is interested in a performance before the plaintiffs begin. No one came forward. I recall that the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which is a guarantee committee, and the constitutionally-legal committee was delivered as the House's press 69/2 to 69/5. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. I have an MEP registered at the moment, Mr Dominik Feri. I'm not sure I read his apology. I did. However, he is not present in the hall, so at this point his application is forfeit. With priority rights, Mr. Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here at last, at second reading, a bill that seems unnecessary, duplicated or even bullying to many responsible. I see. What is its essence? It is a simple principle, and that every person who manages public property is directly responsible for it. I therefore understand that this seems to be pointless, duplicated or bullying to some of the people who manage public property so far, because at present it is not clearly declared, in essence, that someone is also directly materially responsible. There is currently no single and declarative law that clearly determines the obligation of all those handling public property, that is, the property of all of us. Analogies for everyone should be the Constitution. This clearly codifies, therefore, the imposition of seemingly obvious obligations and rights, regardless of the fact that it also regulates subordinate laws. The purpose of our proposal is to establish clearly, clearly in the law the obligation of the so-called care of a proper economy for all those who manage public property. It's simple and understandable. It is not only for the judges but also for us citizens that we want a clear declaration of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly find here a hundred locks to reject the responsibility of the responsible. On the other hand, there is no factual reason not to adopt this law, especially in the light of the regular findings of the Supreme Audit Office, which is currently investigating, for example, contracts at the Ministry of Education. These are the subsidies for sports, respectively. the management of public money. We see it in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for example, about the problematic IT contracts. As we know, the SAO filed two criminal charges. But there are really hundreds and hundreds of cases where it is essentially found that public funds have been dealt economically, and basically there is no way to grasp the current legislation and determine who is responsible for it and that the person or persons concerned should bear some material responsibility or responsibility at all in connection with the so-called care of a proper economy. That's basically what this is about. [[9.20 hours]] So we think there's no way that it's duplicated, unnecessary, or bullying. Because the person who manages public money should simply have the ability to manage the so-called care of the orderly. And who simply doesn't have that ability shouldn't work in such a place and therefore shouldn't essentially manage the public funds. So that's actually the whole point. I already explained the law in detail at first reading. We're in second place now. That's why I won't be here much longer. I think it's pretty clear. Thank you and I beg you to support me in the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u3	Thank you. I ask if there is anyone else who is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone. I am therefore ending the general debate. Is there interest in any final words by the appellants or rapporteurs? [[No one's answering.]] If someone were to listen to me, maybe they would be. [[It's not.]] No, it's not. The draft bill was not renegotiated to renegotiate. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u4	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, the problem of dealing with public funds is, without a doubt, a fundamental problem which Mr Okamura rightly points out. However, the draft, as it has been done, cannot achieve the intended effect on the simple reason that the essence of the draft is that care is complementary to a proper economy where there is a requirement for professional care nowadays. And according to the interpretation of the law on the property of the state of professional care, the standard is higher than merely the care of a proper economy. So in order to preserve the positive idea of improving the use of State resources, I have prepared an amendment, this is House document 2119, which I am reporting to, which the proposal amends to address some of the problematic points that have really led to the inefficient use of public funds. One part relates to the fact that if there is any damage and a regression claim of the State, it will be an obligation to make a record of it. Because today, when there's some damage, a regression claim and all that, it's not often enforced. For example, I asked the Justice Department how many judges regressed, and the answer is zero. So, actually, the state pays tens of millions a year for the damage, then no one's asking anyone for it, no one's looking into it. I don't think that's quite right. And the second thing that I included in the proposal is the solution to the issue raised by the President of the Supreme Audit Office that the caselaw suggested that if the State imposed a fine on itself, one organizational component of the other organizational body does not cause any damage to the State, no one is responsible for it, because when the State pays itself fines from one pocket to another, it is not, in principle, damage, because the state does not shrink property. This is a matter which unfortunately occurs in the present caselaw and which we should make clear. So we suggested that, in case of liability for damages, the organisational elements of the state should be viewed as separate legal entities, and therefore the damage was assessed in relation to that organizational component. It is true what the Ministry of Finance said at the constitutional committee meeting that it is already implied in the law in some way. But since the Supreme Administrative Court has taken, let's say, another way, we want it to be quite clearly written, so that it is actually enforced by those end officials who cause the damage and cause it. So much for the presentation of my amendment. It goes in the intensity of the effort to improve the state's management. But it needs to be done in a rational way so that the result is legally correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u5	Thank you. Mr Řehounek is reporting for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. We have consulted the plaintiffs' representatives here before the opening of the detailed debate, because the amendment was not really recorded until last night. So, while the debate is already detailed, I would still like to make a resolution from the Guarantee Committee, because I was empowered to do so. And although the debate is already detailed, I would like to say that the Committee on Budgets did not adopt a resolution at its meeting on 6 June 2018. And since I don't see the rapporteur from the next committee, constitutionally, I'll read it for her. So: "The Constitutional Committee adopted a motion for rejection at its meeting on 10 September 2018.' So I'd like it to be on the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-002-015.u7	Thank you. Another one is entered in a detailed debate by Mr Feri, who is excused. [[Information from the plenary that Member Feri withdraws his proposal.]] He's downloading. Or someone could read it for him. [[Nobody's interested.]] Okay. Well, I'll read a few apologies in the meantime. Mr. Dominik Feri apologizes for personal reasons between 9:45 and 10:30. Before that, he was only excused until 9:45. She also apologizes to Minister Jana Maláčová for work reasons for today's meeting. Mr Pavel Blažek apologizes for health reasons for today, and she apologizes to Minister Schillerová... is present. He's been apologizing since 14.30 because of the Senate's actions. And Mrs Hyťhová apologizes from today's meeting from the beginning to the next 13 hours for health reasons. The last question is whether anyone is reporting to a detailed debate on this point. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the plaintiff's final words. [[It's not.]] The rapporteur. [[It's not.]] It's not like that. That's how we dealt with everything on this point. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. The next item is point number
