ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u1	81. Proposal by Members of Miroslav Kalousek, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jan Farský and others for the Act amending Act No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Rules of Procedure, as amended, and other related laws /house print 245/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as the House Press 245/1. [[Noise in the hall.]] I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who has already taken his place. Thank you, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table, and before I give the floor to the plaintiffs' representatives, I will ask the House for peace of mind. If you are discussing a previous proposal or other subject, please, in principle in the foyer, so that representatives of the plaintiffs can present their proposal in peace. Especially here in front of the speaker's desk, I'd like some peace of mind. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the Members of several Members' Clubs, to present a rather simple amendment to the law, the purpose of which is to amend the procedure for issuing the freezing order. At present, as you all know, the power to issue a freezing order in the hands of the tax administrator, whether it is the Financial Administration or the Customs Administration, however, in recent times we have seen both of these institutions out of legal jurisdiction and in the course of a trial it has been proven that the issuing of the freezing order was illegal. The correction, which then comes from the State due to the nature of the hedging order, which is often liquidated, is often no longer entirely possible. Compensation is possible, but it is not possible to remedy and it is not possible to heal, because in the meantime the company will be liquidated and very often the existence of a number of persons will be liquidated. Unfortunately, we have witnessed quite specific cases where this happened. It is therefore a question of whether we should not adjust this decision-making in order to strengthen its impartiality and minimise the number of illegal decisions. For this reason, the subject matter of this proposal is an adjustment in which the administrative court would decide to issue the freezing order instead of the tax administrator. Please note that if the authority of the state authority, in such a case the Police of the Czech Republic, wants to carry out a house search, the independent judge must have the consent. If the Financial Administration or Customs Authority wants to issue a freezing order to the extent that it eliminates a company that destroys a 10-year effort, it does not need the consent of anybody at all. It's purely up to him to decide. And we believe, on the basis of the practice that we have witnessed in the past time, that this control by an independent administrative court would be quite appropriate. If the court considers that the grounds for issuing the freezing order are given, it shall decide by a judgment in that case, otherwise reject the tax administrator's proposal. Given that in these cases must proceed quickly, the court would be obliged to decide within two working days of receipt of the application. Nothing more, nothing less, it's very simple, it's only up to you to consider whether you want to strengthen citizens' confidence in the impartiality of decision-making at a completely fatal step such as a hedge order. I am not questioning his need in tax legislation, I am aware that there are cases, completely justified when this institute is to be used, but we should minimize its abuse. And control by an independent administrative court is one way to contribute to this effort. Therefore, I would like to request the release of this proposal for second reading, where we are ready for a lively and factual discussion, both with you, colleagues and, of course, with the employees of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u3	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs, Miroslav Kalousek, for his opening words. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová to present her report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled contains proposals for amendments to the procedure for issuing the freezing order. Instead of the tax administrator, it is proposed that the administrative court should decide on the matter, thereby ensuring the impartiality of the decision-making and guaranteeing the legal rights of tax entities. The proposed modification has its ideal basis in the custody procedure. It is for the self-judge of the Regional Court to decide in proceedings initiated on a proposal from the appellant, the tax administrator. The applicant will be obliged to state the reasons for issuing the freezing order in the proposal and to document it. From a factual point of view, there is no change in the parties to the reason for issuing the freezing order. The current text from the tax code is taken over. An appeal may be lodged against the issuing of the freezing order. Otherwise, the application shall be rejected without the possibility of lodging an appeal. The Court of First Instance shall rule within two working days of receipt of the application. The appellants submit the following arguments: Authorities do not exercise their competence within legal limits, their decisions are often subject to judicial review, in which the court will declare the lawlessness of the decision. The freezing orders act on the tax entity up to liquidation and the subsequent correction of the illegal state is difficult or impossible. The ability of the Financial Administration to issue decisions within legal limits is questioned. [[17,00 hours]] Government arguments. The absence of factual and substantiated arguments. Several hedging cases have been cancelled in the past. Deficiencies in the administrative practice of certain authorities have been eliminated by case law and methodology. The proposal is inconclusive. The Czech model of administrative justice is based essentially on the principle of appeal, which is an essential aspect of the division of power. The power to make a substantive decision on administrative matters does not normally pass on administrative proceedings to administrative courts. The Administrative Court may only monitor and evaluate the activities of the public authority, but it may not represent that authority. The proposed adjustment substantially limits the effectiveness of the freezing order in the management of taxes, in particular in the context of tax evasion. Typically during tax checks it is necessary to take measures without delay to ensure compliance with the tax obligation. According to the tax rules, the freezing order is the first act of the tax administrator against the tax entity in a partial procedure for securing the tax, where there is a danger of default, the freezing order is enforceable at the time of notification to the tax entity, or even at the time of issue. The proposed adjustment has stricter rules for the application of the freezing order by the tax administrator in relation to the tax entity, for example: At present, the issuing of the freezing order is at the administrative discretion of the tax administrator - e.g. It doesn't issue if you can't expect recovery. According to the proposal, it must always be issued when the conditions are met. The application provides for the possibility to deposit payment of the amount specified in the freezing order whenever there is a danger of default. The current legislation allows this only in the case of value added tax and excise duty. The proposal denies the tax entity the possibility of a full appeal against the tax rules. The procedural procedure in the event of abstinence of the reason for issuing the freezing order will be longer, as it will also be decided by the court. According to the application, the judgment is always to be published on the notice board of the court. At present there is no form of publication, information is subject to tax confidentiality. The application would impose a burden on the courts. This is a non-conceptual transfer of administrative decision-making to the courts. Tax administrators would be denied the right to lodge an appeal. The Court of First Instance would have entered into a substantive decision on the application of a partial measure taken in the administration of taxes. In this respect, the proposal constitutes an undue interference of judicial authority with the exercise of executive powers. The proposed adjustment substantially limits the effectiveness of the freezing order as an instrument in tax administration, in particular in relation to tax evasion. The current arrangements allow the tax administrator to take measures without delay to ensure compliance with the tax obligation, which typically finds the conditions for doing so in the course of tax control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u5	Good evening, dear colleagues. This was the report by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. I have here one factual point by Mr Dominik Feri, but I have to cancel because we are not in the debate at this time. I am opening a general debate at the moment, in which I have signed up with the priority right of Minister Schillerová, and here I am registering Mr Dominik Feri's factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the liberty of responding to the proposal. And let me briefly comment on it and summarize the facts of the proposal, and why I cannot fundamentally agree with it, which I expressed in the discussion of the Government on the one hand, and I will try to explain it now. The proposal is justified by the need to avoid any excesses in the issuing of freezing orders, particularly by the Financial Administration or Customs Administration, as stated by President Kalousek, but I believe, and we are discussing this at an expert level, and the public defender of rights has also said that such a change is no longer necessary at the moment. It does not take into account the shift, the current situation in the field of hedging orders that occurred, particularly as a result of extensive case-law and the follow-up methodological activity by the General Financial Directorate, which occurred more than a year ago, a methodological instruction was issued which took into account and accepted, in fact, all the conclusions of the case-law. So, as there has been a shift in the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, there has been a shift in the application practice of the Financial and, of course, Customs Administration. This positive condition has been proven publicly, e.g. as well as from the public defender of rights, but also from the professional public, because an expert group has been meeting at the Ministry of Finance for many years on the Tax Code, where this topic was discussed with the participation of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, representatives of the Ministry, public defender of rights, representatives of the Supreme Public Prosecutor, etc., of course Financial Administration, Customs Administration, I was personally present when we discussed this topic. The very substance of the proposal with which the President comes is the non-systemic transfer of the powers to issue freezing orders from the tax administrator to administrative courts, which, however, are primarily intended to review the legality of the procedure of executive power, not the actual exercise of public administration. This actually undermines, among other things, the constitutional principle of division of power. There are a number of other public administration decisions that have a significant impact on economic operators, but the proposal merely entrusts the courts with issuing freezing orders. Moreover, the proposal does not address the capacity and organisational implications of administrative courts. The proposal further eliminates the element of the speed and operationality of the freezing order, which allows for the avoidance of funds which should serve solely for the payment of the tax. Finally, President Kalousek also confirmed that he does not doubt that there are cases where this specific device needs to be used. Since 2012, I stress that, in the most urgent cases, the freezing order is enforceable by issuing it, which in fact makes it impossible for the tax entity to thwart its implementation. This concerns a specific adjustment for value added tax. On the other hand, the proposal creates at least a few days' time for such a waste, that is to say, it would have completely missed the effect of what is to be followed by a freezing order, which goes against the meaning of the measure introduced by the government in which President Kalousek sat in, by the way, in 2012, - and it is okay, I am not criticizing it, it is the right measure, I am just stressing that it is not an institute that would have introduced this or the former government. However, even from the point of view of the actual impact on the tax entity, the proposal put forward by the President here does not entail any shift. Because he only transfers to the courts the issuing of a freezing order, which in itself cannot have a fatal impact on the tax entity. Fatal impact has the following hedging execution and the tax administrator will do it anyway - either the Financial Administration or the Customs Administration. However, these authorities should not only take up there - and this is also the subject of a methodology that was approached about a year ago, possibly a year and a half - where less invasive means of collateral cannot be chosen, e.g. the lien. This means, where it is possible to choose these funds and find another form, of course, the tax rules know more of those forms, so they do not choose hedging execution as the hardest penalty and they do not even choose where they would, for example. the property of the entity has been confiscated or the funds or business-related items have been confiscated. For example, they are chosen. to the disability of funds in the accounts, where there is a real risk that the money may be lost before the tax is measured. The court assessing the conditions for issuing the freezing order would not, in accordance with the application for the form of execution of the secured amount, decide whether or not it could have information on the nature of the matter as to how invasive the form of execution would be. This means that he would have decided on a freezing order, but that form of detention would still have been decided either by the financial office or by the customs office competent locally. This means that its possible consideration of interference with the rights of a tax entity would necessarily be distorted. However, if the proposal had been accepted, not only would there have been a weakening of the freezing order institute and a dissipation of the non-systemic agenda by the court, but - and this is much more important - also to tighten up the current adjustment and deterioration of the position of the tax entity. [[17.10 hours]] This is in particular the proposed mandatory publication of each freezing order on the official record of the court. While the freezing orders are not published today and are protected by tax confidentiality, according to the proposal, any tax entity against which the freezing order would be issued would automatically be publicly denounced. In contrast to today's situation, it is therefore a significantly greater intervention in the personal and economic rights of the tax entity and third parties, which can also be seen as public embarrassment and loss of good name. From the point of view of the tax entity's rights, it is also worth mentioning that the tax entity's proposal denies a full appeal against the freezing order. While today the tax entity may appeal to the freezing order within 30 days and it is also valid there, there is a special arrangement that, if the appeal is not decided within 30 days, the freezing order will cease to be effective, so according to the proposal, the tax entity could only defend against the result within 15 days only the content and procedurally limited appeals to the Supreme Administrative Court, for which it would still have to ensure a compulsory representation by the lawyer. So for all these reasons, I cannot agree with the proposal put forward. I can still afford a little - I don't know if I can see it - statistics. It is indeed the number of hedging orders - blue column, red is the amount, green is the number of entities. Look, for the record, I only have it in this smaller format, which I'm sorry, I'm showing it to the right. [[Presents the A4 format sheet.]] These are actually numbers - red is the amount, numbers issued in 2013 and the amount is the highest and here you actually have half or by the end of August issued hedge orders in 2019. So, indeed, the shift following the issuance of a methodology that takes full account - and recognizes the professional capacity in this country - of the full case-law, of the consistent case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court - is reflected not only in the quality of the hedging orders but also in much smaller quantity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u7	I thank the Minister, and I have two factual points here. Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Ferjenčík, and Mr Kalousek, with priority right, have signed up with the first. I'll read the apologies. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes today from 18.25 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Jan Skopeček today from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the government's position in this press, you will see that it is very extensive, and the rapporteur has approached it very closely through the President. And I think it tells us that the government is going to be very concerned about the detention order. And if I were to sum up the narrative of the government's entire position, it's very simple, and we don't want to get our hands tied, we want to be able to go with a cannon on a sparrow, and we don't want to worry about whether the sparrow will actually survive the blow from that cannon. As this proposal turns out, I think it is clear with regard to what the Minister has mentioned here. But what I am pleased to get out of this at least a little positive is the extraordinary interest in administrative justice, the way the administrative judiciary is overloaded, and I see it as a little bit as a commitment that the draft State Budget for 2021 will increase the amount of staffing of administrative sections of the regional courts, and I do not mean the judge, I mean the dissenting staff, the higher judicial officials, the assistants of the judges, so that the matter can be dealt with more quickly, and I also believe in the full cooperation of the government in the amendment to the Administrative Code, which regulates the admissibility of the appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, where the idea of the matter has almost doubled over the last ten years and it is really becoming unmanageable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u9	Thank you for keeping time. The next in line is Mr Ferjenčík with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond briefly to the Minister, who actually claims that the law is not necessary because it is being dealt with on an executive level. However, I wonder if Mr Janeček, who is responsible for the practice of securing orders with us, which leads to the fact that the state is paying millions and millions of crowns on interest to those companies to whom he is illegally withholding money, would Mr Janeček instead of having been given a slim trade, that he is still the director of the Regional Financial Directorate instead of being kicked out for what he has shown here in this agenda, so if he is personally responsible for the damage that the state has suffered, and how are we to believe that at a time when such people are still doing at the Financial Administration, that the practice will actually change in the long term, and not only as long as there is some media interest in the subject. That is one question, and this is why the pirát will not support the rejection of this proposal, because we think it is appropriate to solve the huge problem that has become a hedge order in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u11	Thank you. President Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u12	Thank you. I may surprise many of you, but I will indeed give the Minister the truth that last year there has been a significant improvement in the methodological procedure in the field of hedging orders, that there has been acceptance of the jurisdiction of both the administrative court and the Supreme Court, unlike the previous times, when the Financial Administration actually dared not even to respect the decision of the Supreme Court that this situation has improved significantly, and that is true. Whether to date it from the moment of the personnel change to the position of CEO or not, it's a matter of discussion. I think so, but the improvement has undoubtedly happened, and I want to appreciate it here. But once this has happened - the Minister here rightly said that the practice has been going on for quite a long time, since 2012, the institute has never been abused. Suddenly the year 2014 came and there was a relatively massive abuse from my perspective of this instrument expressed by the famous sentence from the recording allegedly unconfirmed authentic, but we all know the sentence: Ours fell on them. Just in 2014, 2015, 2016 began to kneel. And it began to kneel in a way that actually deflected from legal limits, and the courts later decided that way. But no one's gonna get those broken companies back on their feet. What if it comes again? What if some other finance minister like that comes back to the Ministry of Finance and another Janeček like that at the General Financial Directorate, and they think we're gonna get down on them again? Well, that's just the brake and the fail-safe that it can't be the will of the tax administrator, but that there's a control of an independent court. You know, I've heard comments about how this would be a non-systemic intervention of judicial power in executive power. We, who are a few years old, remember the time when Comrade Prosecutor made the decision about custody, and decided, it just blew. And when, with the arrival of freedom, human rights and certainty have also strengthened and legislation has changed in the sense that detention can be decided not by the comrade prosecutor, but only by an independent judge on the proposal of the state's attorney, I have heard pretty much the same criticisms 30 years ago: This is an unsystemic intervention of judicial power into executives, let's not do that! We did it, and I don't think anybody can imagine any more now that an independent judge would have been placed on someone without a decision from an independent judge. While this is not a restriction on personal freedom, it is a liquidation of the company, but perhaps some whose company was liquidated by the will of the Financial Administration would also exchange bonds for those few days. It's just a similar case. And I don't think it's a non-systemic intervention of judicial authority in executives, but that it's an increase in the taxpayer's security, that the executive will not commit an act and that independent judicial power is watching over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u13	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Then I will oblige my colleague Ferjenčík. He said he wouldn't support a motion to dismiss the bill. This proposal has not yet been made, so it will now be heard. I'm making a motion to dismiss so that we can vote that you've already expressed your views on this as a club, so I'm basically fulfilling the wishes of a club. I also believe that the administrative courts are to review the decisions of the administrative authorities and not to issue meritorial decisions in such matters. I myself have experience with administrative justice, and even though the lawmaker here said that he did not think so, for example, that in the case of detention it was otherwise, I think it is wrong for such territorial matters to be decided by the administrative courts. Next thing you know, I'd like one more thing. Maybe I'm a rookie in this House. So far, I'm only the rapporteur for about 12 or 13 laws and one report on a lawsuit against the President. However, it has not yet happened for me to sit at the rapporteur's desk alone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u15	Well, thank you. And at this point, I don't see anyone. No one's logged in. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u16	It's up to me to make a humble apology. I'm scribbling in the amendments to the state budget that we're going to vote on today. [[Tomorrow.]] And I acted not gentlemanly. My colleague, I apologize very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-006-081.u17	Thank you. And at this point, I am ending the general debate. Since there has been a motion to dismiss the proposal, I will put it to a vote. I've already begun a while ago. I'm going once more. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your identification cards. [[He's waiting a while.]] It seems that the number of Members and Members in the Chamber is being settled, I will be voting on the motion to reject the proposal. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 127, 153 Members of Parliament, for 85, against 67, abstained 1. The motion was accepted. This concludes the discussion of this point. The next item is
