ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here, as well as the Governor. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with the ID cards, or to tell me who votes with the replacement card. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the proceedings: Jiří Běhounek within 10 hours - family reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek from 11 hours - working reasons, Jan Birke - without reason, Jiří Bláha - family reasons, Válek Blažek - family reasons, František Elfmark from 12 hours - working reasons, Petr Fiala from 10 hours - personal reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna - work reasons, Petr Gazdík - medical reasons, Josef Hájek - family reasons, Tomáš Hanzel - working reasons, Jakub Janda - personal reasons, Martin Jiránek - foreign travel, Stanislav Juránek - working reasons, Pavel Juříček - working reasons, Miroslav Kalousek - family reasons, Jan Kubík - family Stanjura - family Zbyněk, Langšádlová Helena from 9.45 - working reasons, Jana Levová - personal reasons, Karla Maříková from 12 hours - working Volný - working grounds, Roman Onderka - Rostislav Vyzula - working grounds, working Karel, Schwarzenberg Pavel, Vlastimil Špičák, Staněk grounds, Jana Pastuchová -working , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds , familygrounds ,Jana. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Marie Benešová - working reasons, Klára Dostálová - health reasons, Vladimír Kremlík - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - health reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - foreign travel. Maybe he'll come, he's already home. With the replacement card number 15, Minister Hamáček votes, with the replacement card 20, Mr Bartoš. Since today we do not have points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines would be met, we should address the firmly classified points, which are paragraph 14, the House Press 236 - Amendment to the SAO Act, second reading; paragraph 21, House printing 501 - amendment to the property valuation law, first reading; paragraph 22. House printing 572 - draft law on the amendment of laws in connection with the implementation of tax regulations, first reading; paragraph 23, House printing 581 - amendment to the law on medicines, first reading; paragraph 134, House printing 466 - amendment of the penal code, first reading. We would then continue to discuss further points according to the approved programme, i.e. the laws of second and first reading. With the replacement card number 16, the Member shall vote Výborný. Now on the agenda of the meeting, whether there is an interest in the performance. I ask you one more time - isn't there an interest in a performance on the agenda? It's not like that, it's great. Therefore, we will continue without changes according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I'm opening point number 14, which is
