ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u1	44. Members of Barbora Kořanová's proposal, Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš, Pavel Jelínek, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Chvojka, Jan Bartošek, Helena Langšádlová, Věra Kovářová and others on the issue of the law on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws /house print 447/ - second reading Mrs Barbora Kořanová, who I hereby give the floor, shall state the motion in favour of the appellant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u2	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The nature of this law has already been introduced here at his first reading. I'd like to add a few basic things. In fact, we live at a time when many of us use mobile phones, e.g. to set the lighting or heating in your home when we pay by mobile phone. The right to digital services would actually order the Czech authorities to respect two basic principles of eGovernment. The first is the right to address all agendas primarily by the state electronically. Of course, the right to choose a traditional form of paper is preserved, so it does not mean that there will be any interference with the offices where the citizen can physically handle it. However, the state is ordered to communicate internally, i.e. between the authorities, exclusively electronically, which is already happening for example today. thanks to the basic registers and it accelerates a number of processes. He also orders him to communicate with the citizen in electronic form, if that is what the citizen wants. The second rule is to transfer data to the state only once. Therefore, if the State requests data, it should only request once and only those which have not yet been submitted to it or registered anywhere. This means stopping repeated filling of form fields e.g. with permanent residence, birth number. I'm sure we all know it. You'll just identify yourself once a state, and he'll either request the remaining data from the basic registers or from the individual authorities. This could ultimately mean that instead of 260 of the various documents that exist in the Czech Republic today, you would always submit only for example. an electronic I.D. you'll have recorded on your mobile phone. My friends, I ask you once again to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u3	Thank you. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 447/2 to 6. I will ask Mr Jan Kubík, as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u4	So good evening, esteemed colleagues. At its 24th meeting on 27 June, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development ordered the draft law to be discussed by the eGovernment subcommittee, at the same time setting a deadline for the submission of amendments to the Committee Secretariat by 15 August 2019. At this date, the Committee received three amendments, two of which were withdrawn by the petitioners during the 10th meeting of the subcommittee on eGovernment, which subsequently recommended to the committee to support Mrs Barbora Kořanová's comprehensive amendment, which has been envisaged since the House of Press 447 which contains comments from ministries and, in particular, technical adaptations. Since the adoption of the amendment was adopted unanimously and there are quite a few minor amendments, I will not speak to them individually, but if anyone is interested, they will be found in the Parliaments of the Press 447/4. This recommendation was also addressed by the Committee and adopted the following resolution: the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 25th meeting following the reasoning of the draft by Mrs Mgr Barbora Kořanová, following Mr Ing's intelligence report. Jan Kubík, represented by Mr Milan Pour, and after the debate, adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the comprehensive amendment adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u5	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur of Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's constitutional legal committee to inform us about the discussion of the proposal on his committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u6	Thank you. Good evening. Mr President, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee dealt with the 447 House press at three meetings, with the fact that this House press was last discussed at a meeting on 18 September 2019, but where we did not adopt any resolution, as we interrupted the discussion of this press. It was more or less in the light of the preparation of my amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. The proposal was drawn up in cooperation with the ICT Union and the Notary Chamber, dealing with the comments of the notary chamber. I will come closer to this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u7	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate in which Bartoš is the first with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that today it has come to discuss the second reading of the law - the citizens' right to digital service. I am glad that with these common forces we have reached the moment when we read this law at second reading and at the same time there is still the consensus that arose at the very beginning. Not in vain, the law calls it the digital constitution. But it's a thing that doesn't in itself ensure our digitalization. However, it is the travel plan and commitment of this government, future governments, but also Members in the Chamber of Deputies that we will take these digitalisation steps seriously from now on, and not only in the discussion of this law, or the comprehensive amendment law, then we will support the changes that will help us implement it. [[A proposal?]] One of the essential things is the financing of the digitisation process in accordance with this law after the next five years. And when people ask me what this law brings, because he, as he is in the background, actually appears: I have a new I.D., so I won't have to go to the office from the next time you pass the law. It is not so, but it is a treaty, it is a treaty between the Chamber of Deputies, actually between the state and the government and citizens, that within five years we will actually meet the digitalisation requirement. I am very pleased that, throughout the negotiations of this law, political parties participated in the preparation of this law. I wanted to thank Government Agent Dzurill, Mr. Hamáček, who even personally signed a memorandum for the Ministry that we are declaring this support not only now but permanently. And in that final, especially over the summer months, then to the representatives of the ministries concerned, who helped the comprehensive amendment, which specifies the most important legislative changes so that we can actually, as the law will apply from next year, implement the catalogue of services that worked with us over the summer on this proposal. There are several amendments, and in practically all proposals this is discussed at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. There are also proposals from the Ministry of Finance. Original requirements in particular regarding the allocation of finance in the budget of ministries. I am glad that we finally found common ground with the ministries and those groups that this law has touched on in some way in the work or in the performance of their activities at the moment. So I would like to thank everyone who has participated and thank you for the fact that your support for this important initiative in Czech digitalisation is still ongoing. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u9	Thank you. Another is entered in the general debate by Mrs Kořanová. Mr. Kupka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. We've been working together on that law for over a year. As my previous speaker, I want to thank all political parties or their representatives for their cooperation. At the same time, of course, I thank the government's agent, but mainly the government and Prime Minister, for taking digitalisation as their own. I thank my colleague Králíček, who participated in the law with me. And I would like to say that discussions have been held with the Ministry of the Interior and with the Ministry of Finance, and thanks to this, I would like - of course, to comment in detail on it in a detailed debate - to sign up for an amendment that is from the Ministry of Finance's workshop, which concerns covering the costs associated with the administration of certain information systems of the public administration. And then I also have the accompanying resolution, because of course the debate was going on and on and on and on. So this is about specifying the budget rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u11	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mr Kupka. Mr Jelínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u12	Mr President, my dear colleagues, as has been said, the law arose in a rare consensus in the cooperation of individual political actors in the House. What is important is one of those laws that really have an ambition and a real chance to change reform, I would almost say revolutionarily, the functioning of the public administration's electronization, in a way that will be useful, which will determine the notes, which will also give us, as the Chamber of Deputies, a chance to see if individual ministries will comply with the law and keep their word. Because a catalogue of services is an essential part of that law. If we manage to pass the law quickly, it may mean that the entire next year will be a catalogue of services as a timetable, according to which individual resorts will be able to proceed. There's never been anything like this before. The Czech Republic has never put on the table a kind of clear contract with the public, what everything will be electronized, what everything will get a simpler form. What is important in this catalogue of services is that the Czech government must automatically do some sort of inventory of agendas. To assess whether somewhere by chance - as we know safely yes - whether somewhere the same happens twice, whether two or three times somewhere officials perform the same agenda, and useless. This is all the real ambition of the citizens' right to digital service law. Turn around, too, in order for people to have a right - one of the few laws that reverses the usual paradigm in this regard, the usual sequence where, on the contrary, we still want something from citizens and force them into something. This is the law that reverses the logic, and in my opinion it is one of the highest values that the law brings to the Czech public. I will then apply to several amendments that add concrete steps to this complex, concrete changes and ways to strengthen and implement it in individual resorts. Thank you so much for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u13	Thank you. Next is Mr Jelínek's enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Since the SPD is a co-president of this law, I would like to say what we expect from the application of this law over the course of the five years. This law should enable all communication with the state to be implemented essentially from the comfort of its home. Of course, not everyone can have a computer, but the law thinks of them. There should be maximum use of existing Czech Points, which are basically at each post office or at various offices. What is such a guiding principle? The two main principles of this law are that the state must address all agendas primarily in electronic form. Second main principle: All data must be requested by the State only once by citizens. There are other principles, such as the right to share information after consenting to sharing, the right to choose an identification device. And here is a particular situation that I would like to draw attention to, because at the moment, for example, an application has been created, a so-called digital driver's license. We should do everything we can to make this law easier for citizens, and not to create any other variants that are then incomplete and uselessly draw resources that could serve the full application of this law. Another principle should be the right to digital legal behaviour, to digital expression of will, the right to all information from the public administration information system, the right to interactive completion of forms, as has already been said here, and the right to notification of basically all ending documents. As it certainly sounds out of these individual rights, it's supposed to be a law that's supposed to be kind to citizens. [[18.30 hours]] In the draft law, a catalogue of services will be created, which will be kept up to date by the government. And I would say a few of those situations where I hope these matters will gradually get into the service catalogue. Perhaps the most common act of ours is the filing of taxes and tax returns. And it should be there gradually from everything, both property tax and personal income tax, property acquisition tax and more. Access to information. Basically extracts from all registers, from the driver's register, e.g. about the status of points, which is currently a citizen's Portal, issued recipes - recipes are also there now, however we hope that there will also be a statement of declared acts on health insurance companies, so that the citizen can see what everything is reported and financed on his health insurance number. It will certainly be an extension of the validity of the licence, i.e. from I.D., driver's license, weapons and other licenses, and basically any changes to these licenses, i.e. Change of residence, the most common changes we have to make in our personal IDs. How far the service catalogue will be filled. We would certainly like to see the maximum amount of operations, for example in building permits or transfers of property, in this catalogue of services, pension applications, extracts for example. pension insurance, state aid applications. Personally, we hope that there should be an end to undignified series e.g. when applying for grants, e.g. about the cauldron subsidies. Of course, there will be other subsidies, and we would really like to put an end to this so that people do not have to stand before the authorities. What should remain after digitalisation, e.g. various I.D.s? I'd love it if there was only one person left, I.D. And the form we have now, basically an electronic ID card, is ideal. So what exactly is going to be the result of this law? The result will be that the state will once again become a service for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u15	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate. I would remind you that amendments must always be duly justified. Mr Kohoutek is the first to be logged in. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is set out in the system under number 309. This is a minor amendment responding to a comprehensive amendment under the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In particular, it regulates and slightly precises Section 4, 5, 6 of the Digital Services Law and then Section 15 (6) of the Free Access to Information Act, with the fact that it responds slightly and regulates the precision and specification of public documents and the verification of signatures. It's more or less in cooperation with the notary chamber, settling comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u17	Thank you. Mrs Kořanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u18	Thank you. As I have already announced in the previous debate, I would like to sign up for the document under number 3349 from the Ministry of Finance's workshop on cost reimbursement. If I take a statement. Basic registers, information system of basic registers, information system of shared services, central place of services, portal of public administration and national point for identification and authentication as information systems of public administration belong to the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, based on the competence law. What else is involved in the adjustment? This is part three, in Section 16, point 25 is deleted and the following points are exceeded. Following this, I would like to read the accompanying resolution, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies recommends the government to create specific spending indicators in binding indicators of individual chapters of the state budget, which will include expenditure related to the administration, operation and development of the following key public administration information systems: basic registers, basic registers, information system of basic registers, information system of shared services, central place of services, public administration portal, information system through which the exercise of the competence of public authorities' contact points is ensured, and a national point for identification and authentication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u19	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day, Mr Marek Benda apologises from 18.30 and Mr Koten apologizes from 17.00 to the end of the day. Next, Mr Kupka is entered into a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u20	So I would like to ask you to read several amendments, a total of five. The first one is listed in the system under number 3471, which I hereby report to. It is an amendment that facilitates, in particular, the procurement of data boxes so that it is possible to obtain a data box for waiting at the public administration's contact point. At the same time, it simplifies the way other legal entities get to the data box, and simplifies communication between people, between businesses through data boxes. The next amendment is listed under number 3464 in the system, and I hereby declare it. It is an amendment that provides for an update, in particular the unification of the terms between those laws which the umbrella law on citizens' right to digital service enters. Another amendment is under number 3466 in the system, and it is an amendment, which I am referring to it, which precisely for the purposes of the Digital Rights Act, regulates the conditions for dealing with iCloud for other services so that it is subsequently easier to ensure, in particular, for the area of government, but that citizens have easier and faster access to all services that the State will provide in this way. The next amendment is under number 3467. It envisages the introduction of a central system of notification so that at a time when one case occurs e.g. to change the data, so that the single instrument ensures that the change is written into all registers. So it's a document number 3467, so I'm applying for it. And the last amendment 3468, that is his number in the House of Deputies system, so this is also the amendment I am referring to. This amendment ensures that additional data are sent to the population register for which individual departments call, e.g. foreign police or health insurance companies, so as to be possible there e.g. monitor the dates of residence of foreigners and, of course, the possible prohibition of residence in the territory of the Czech Republic, so that the treatment of such registers is more flexible and that the ministries and public authorities can easily control existing facts. Thank you very much. I hereby declare all these documents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u21	Thank you. The next one is registered by Mr Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u22	Evening, my dear colleagues. I would like to sign up for my amendment, House document 3470. This amendment regulates five things. The first is a very unfortunate change of wording, which occurred during the hearing, when the admissible formats of all for data boxes changed to a reference to the Act on Archiving, i.e. from machine-readable formats such as xml., we became PDF/A. That, I think, is a very crucial matter on which there is agreement to change it. [[18.40 hours]] The next thing that the amendment regulates is changes in order to explain better and more clearly the compliance with the GDPR Regulation. Then also according to GDPR, to highlight the possibility of consenting to data sharing to withdraw, so that the citizen has the right to say I do not want my data to be shared. The fourth is more or less technical, but it is a change of one title, which is extended to make it more accurate that it does not comply with another law. And the fifth change is the stated determination that authorities should use open formats, and, if possible, machine-readable, again for practical reasons, so that we do not stick it at the end. So once again, I will stress - this is House document 3470, where everything is justified in detail. None of these changes are big, it's all on one line, so I think you'll get to know it in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u23	Thank you. Mr Chvojka for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u24	Thanks again for the word. I would like to sign up for Amendment 3434. It is the amendment of the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, who unfortunately cannot be present here, has held a meeting, so he has entrusted me. The reasons for this amendment are written and, of course, in the system for the amendment in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-017-044.u25	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. Is there interest in final words? It's not. There has been no motion for a vote, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] We still have 19 minutes. Opening point number
