ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on Energy Management, as amended /German press 413/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The Government proposes a procedure pursuant to § 90 para. 2, therefore, to give consent already in the first reading. Instead of Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková, I have here the Government resolution, where Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek, who is present, is appointed. At the same time, I note that the rapporteur, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, is also present. [[Huge noise in the hall. I can't hear you.]] We can therefore begin negotiations. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I will once again ask the House for peace. I'm gonna ask you to disband the hips. I believe there will be enough peace here to negotiate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the Government's proposal for a law aims, above all, to address certain shortcomings concerning the implementation of European Union law in the field of energy performance of buildings, where the European Commission therefore calls into question the lack of transposition of the Czech Republic. In addition, the draft law implements a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the legal framework for labelling energy labels. In addition, the amendment also eliminates some of the interpretation problems arising from the current application practice and the experience of the State Energy Inspection in the exercise of control. [[16.50 hours]] These changes, which result from knowledge of application practice, are mainly an adjustment in the field of activity of energy specialists. According to the proposal, this activity should also be allowed to be carried out by legal persons. Furthermore, the requirements for the processing of the report on the application of the territorial energy concept of municipalities and regions and the definition of bodies required to ensure the implementation of the energy audit are clarified. The contribution of the proposed proposal lies mainly in making the existing legislative framework for improving energy efficiency more effective and also, and this is essential, in reducing the administrative and financial burden on operators affected by energy efficiency obligations. In addition to the above, I would like to point out that the speedy adoption of the bill - if the Chamber of Deputies supports the first reading, and I would like to ask very much - can be a positive effect on the outcome of the action, which will therefore be brought by the European Commission to the Court of Justice of the European Union in connection with the inaccurate transposition of the directive on the energy performance of buildings. In view of this negative course, i.e. the threat, the real threat of the action, or the reduction of negative effects on the Czech Republic, by way of reference to its budget, I would therefore like to ask that the proposal be approved at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek and ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, to present his report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European legislative framework for increasing energy efficiency consists of three directives. Directive on labelling, Directive on the energy performance of buildings and Directive on energy efficiency. These are transposed into our legal order by the Act on Energy Management. The aim of the bill is to align national legislation with European law, but also to eliminate certain problems in practice. The proposal responds to the fact that the Energy Labeling Directive has been repealed by the regulation on labelling. Due to the direct effectiveness of the regulation, certain provisions of the law are already redundant. A procedure has been initiated with the Czech Republic regarding the incorrect transposition of the directive on energy performance of buildings. The requirement for a certificate of energy performance in buildings frequently visited by the public was not sufficiently transposed into the Czech legal order, only for buildings of public authorities. The proposal corrects this discrepancy. For this reason, the appellant proposed to discuss the draft law so that the House could agree with it in the first reading under Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. A number of large enterprises also fall under the obligation to process energy audits. These are now oversized thanks to the property ties of the groups from the perspective of the law. In many cases, they thus process an energy audit, even though it is not effective and effective. In this context, too much of the general definition of the energy economy is being clarified today. The right of energy specialists is now granted only to natural persons and the aim of the proposal is to establish the same conditions for legal persons. Even though they offer documents processed by energy specialists for payment today, they do not have the same responsibilities and responsibility as a legitimate energy specialist. Spaces are often used for business with an energy specialist under the corporate head, but are not subject to an offence regime. The requirements for continuous training of energy specialists were found to be excessively burdensome. As a result of the mitigation of the adjustment, the responsibility for ensuring the organisation of continuous updating education from the designated organisations to the State Energy Inspection will also be shifted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open the debate in which Mr Petr Třešňák is the first Member to join. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u6	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, both the Minister of Justice and the rapporteur have mentioned the fundamental importance of this law, including the genesis of the wrong transposition. However, given how important the legislation is, which will affect, among other things, not only entrepreneurs but also homeowners and housing units and others, and what adjustments it affects in the areas of energy certificates, energy labels and energy audits, and not only that, and given that these adjustments go beyond the implementation itself, we therefore consider it necessary to discuss this press thoroughly in the committees. Therefore, allow me to raise an objection for the Pirates Club and the ODS Club to the hearing pursuant to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u7	Thank you. There's an objection. We will continue according to the classic procedure and Mr Petr Pávek wants to respond with a factual point. Then a fellow Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have one supplementary question for the Minister. I wonder if the Ministry of Justice has consulted the Ministry of Industry and Trade on this transfer. If he is aware that energy auditors or specialists today have a limited number of licenses. And I'm afraid it won't just help to extend that spectrum of entitled persons to legal persons. This means that if there is even the potential of enough energy specialists who will be able to carry out the work, because the current auditors are essentially overwhelmed by work, which leads to their long-term livelihood - and that is certainly fine for them - but it has also significantly increased the price of energy audits, namely those issues related to energy labels. So I want to ask if you're ready for this, and if you've been looking at the possibility of unwinding it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u9	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will continue the debate with Mr Jan zahradník's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u10	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to speak to this law on a ground that is slightly different from the one introduced by the pirát colleague here when he proposed a veto with us. I actually thought the Minister of Justice was presenting the law because she represents the Minister of Industry. That's right. So this explains that the questions asked about him will probably not fall entirely on fertile ground, so it is a good thing that thanks to our veto, the law will come to the committee and it will be possible to open a discussion with experts. In any case, I support the reduction of bureaucracy, the improvement of conditions for both large businesses and for natural persons, homeowners who are relatively newly burdened with the requirements arising from energy laws. I would like to mention one thing. Here, if we look at, let's say, the main part of the law, that's where we talk about a state energy saving program in Title III. That's one of the things that's on the agenda for the day. The European Union is pushing us to save energy in order to reduce its consumption, but, at the same time, as the main means of achieving this objective, it states that energy efficiency is increasing - so that we increase energy efficiency, reduce energy intensity and so on. This is in Section 5, paragraph 1. I understand. The European Union has set itself an indicative target for 2030 to increase energy efficiency by 30 percent. We are already kind of hiding from ourselves that it will bring huge costs to our industry operators, that it will burden these entrepreneurs in the tens of billions of crowns, these institutions that will have to spend these resources to achieve greater efficiency. [[17,00 hours]] The question is, to what extent an increase in efficiency can produce a result in the form of savings. There is a known effect from the second half of the 19th century, which records that every time people tried to increase energy efficiency or even the efficiency of a process, the commodity, which was to be the result of the process and which was to be cheaper, was to be reduced by consumption, was to be investigated, so, on the contrary, there was a greater interest in it, to be cheaper, thus increasing its consumption. This was the case in England, for example, in the second half of the 19th century, with coal. They feared that they would soon run out of coal and that therefore the growing consumption of coal would lead to its exhaustion, so they increased the efficiency of the energy sources that used coal, and suddenly found that their consumption was growing, which is called. Jevonsův's paradox. We have had this with the rapporteur, Mr Pustějovskýějovský, who dealt with this issue during this parliamentary term. In modern language, the effect is sometimes called rebound effect, which green activists do not like to hear. My opinion is that we should actually discuss in committee, especially in economic terms, this law, in particular, by exposing experts who prepared it for the Minister or the Minister, to questions about all possible parts of the law, including precisely the context with my view, the mistaken assumption that increasing energy efficiency will lead to savings. That is why I am pleased that we have agreed on a veto for the proceedings under Section 90 (2) that we will therefore be given the opportunity in committees to deal with this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zlesák will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, I will take the liberty of responding to my colleague Pávek as regards energy specialists and energy auditors. Since I've been in this area, I'm just going to briefly explain the difference. Yes, an energy auditor - there is a limited number of them. But we're talking about energy specialists here, and a limited number of energy specialists aren't. Both the Energy Auditor and the Energy Specialist can process so-called a proof of the energy performance of the building, in simple terms and in lay terms, an energy label. So we're only talking about energy specialists. And the superstructure is an energy auditor. And we don't touch them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u13	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura and rapporteur Pustějovský in that order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u14	First, a comment on how this hearing is going. That's extraordinary courage. Madam Secretary wants to approve something in the '90s, and he's not here. So I don't know if he's grounded for cheapening data, it seems to me that we could ask him that we might suggest shut down the House wifi to make the data cheaper, it's just as bad as it works, so maybe it would be good. [[entertainment in the hall]] But as much as the sněmovna, we shouldn't take it. We have a lot of questions. chudák Mr. Justice Minister. Of course, I can say them now, but I won't bother him because I know it's not his bill. But I find it abnormal. If we had a second reading, I would understand. The second reading includes changers, so maybe the minister doesn't have to be there. The program is approved. We all know they're supposed to be the first reading in the '90s. And the secretary who's presenting it isn't here. And the Minister will read here, and I hope that you will approve of this in accordance with Section 90, because it is very important. How are we supposed to approve this if we don't have anyone to discuss it with? In response to the previous speaker, I'll pass on the techniques. We have energy labels. Hooray. But let's ask ourselves a basic question. What do we have them for? What's with the energy labels? It costs a lot of money. Someone did the math? Do we have many or few? Specialist... An energy auditor... What did that do? That's the key question, isn't it? I'd like an answer to that. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to bother you. What did the labels help us to do? And I don't want to hear the answer that it's a Brussels regulation. We all know that. But let's ask ourselves what it's for. Has there been a decrease in consumption? Do you see these crowds of citizens going through public buildings looking to see if there's an energy label and if there's the right value? I didn't really notice the crowds interested in energy labels. But together in the European Union, we have created a new industry of energy auditors, audits and labels. We're always running something, and now we're always improving and supplementing and amending. So let's stop by and ask the MIT for an assessment of the state before the introduction of energy labels and today. What was the result? I might be surprised. I don't know. But we don't have any analysis. We know, however, that we have failed to implement. That's possible. So I wonder how our secretary defended the wrong implementation, so who misguided it, which minister suggested it. That's what we're not talking about either way. It happened... wrong. Well, at least what year did we misprogram, Minister? So we can tell who the minister was back then, so we can show who was wrong to implement it. But the key question is, what do we have energy labels for? How has consumption, for example, decreased? Who cares anyway? Well, the ones who do it. I understand that. As Mr. Pávek said, they're very busy, so they like them. The more work we give them, the more people will do it. Completely logical. But I think it's time to stop and ask and evaluate after some period that we've adopted, whether it works, whether it's ever brought any benefits. Do you remember the fiery defense of first generation biofuels? Especially from environmental activists? They've got something else now. They found something else again. But nobody stopped, didn't evaluate it, didn't say it clearly and openly - the wrong way, we succumbed to the wrong pressure, it led to a deterioration in the life situation, to a deterioration in the environment, it was exactly the opposite of the declared goals. But we have more and more implementations, regulations, directives, amendments, amendments. I think it's time to stop by at least once in a while and ask what it's good for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u15	Thank you. Mr Pustějovskýìjovský in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u16	Thank you for the floor. Although I agree with the previous speaker in a lot, I propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u17	Yes. I've noted your proposal. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Mr Zahradník is reporting with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I am not reporting with any reaction, rather only with a proposal and a request to the Minister, whether she could interpret the subject, whether, in the end, when we are under such pressure from the European Commission and threatened by the Court for bad implementation - we know that there are a number of wrong things, starting with those labels, through the misinterpretation of increasing efficiency with the supposed impact on saving - whether it would not be best to let the court run and try to defend our way, say: we do not want those labels and do not agree that increasing efficiency automatically leads as some perpetuum mobile to generating energy savings. It may be risky, but in our perhaps some new position in the European Union, which I hope we will take, it might quite suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u19	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. Is there interest in final words? Yes, the Minister is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u20	Thank you. I will try very briefly to respond to at least some of the complaints that have been raised here. I assume that the rest will then be discussed in detail, critically debated in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. One of the first questions: When is the mistransposition? It's from 2013. And of course, the fact that the correction is presented this year is due to the fact that the lack of implementation came out only later and we are now responding to the current situation. [[17.10 hours]] The question of why the Minister is not here. It is therefore duly excused because it is currently accepting a foreign visit, namely the Minister of Industry of the Russian Federation, and discussing relatively fundamental issues of cooperation with the Russian Federation in the area of economic, economic and scientific science. So that's why she asked me why I was then meant to present the proposal here. There was a question as to whether the amendment would lead to the blocking of the activities of energy specialists. Well, it's not gonna go away with the bill. This means, if there is a problem with their number today, there will be a problem in the future. But in any case, the proposal doesn't diminish them. This means at least, the situation is not getting worse and there are no new responsibilities that should somehow block their activities. So I assume there's no problem. However, these matters will certainly be explained in more detail on the committee. As far as the impacts on the business environment are concerned, maybe I can just mention here that as a result of the new definition of the so-called. The big businessman and the new businessmen will be less, so on the contrary, many entrepreneurs who are moving on the border today will fall out of this regime of large entrepreneurs, and thus they will lose a number of obligations that apply to them today under the current legislation. So much to explain. Of course, I asked for approval at first reading. Honestly, I didn't really think the request would be granted, so I would at least ask that the time limit for committee discussions be shortened for those 30 days. I think it gives sufficient room for this proposal to be discussed in detail on committees. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur has a final statement? He doesn't. There was no motion for a return to rejection, so we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion as a guarantee committee to the Economic Committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee to discuss this press? He doesn't. So I'm gonna call in the Members who are in the lobby, and we're gonna proceed to the vote. We will vote that the proposal tabled should be directed to the Committee on Economic Affairs as a Committee on Guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 38, 171 Members signed in for 144, against no one. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose any further committee for discussion. There is a proposal - yes, the Member will speak with the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would suggest another committee - the Committee on the Environment, because, of course, this whole directive was directed precisely to protect the environment. That is why I would like a hearing to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-004-012.u23	Thank you. Does anyone else have a proposal to discuss the committees? He doesn't. We will therefore vote on the proposal for this press to be dealt with by the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 181 Members signed in, for 51, against 36. The motion was not accepted. The only committee to deal with this proposal will be the Guarantee Committee and it will be the Economic Committee. There was still a proposal in the debate to reduce the deadline by 30 days. I will now vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 40, 181 Members signed in for 89, versus 39. The application was rejected, therefore the deadline was not reduced. I'm ending the first reading of this bill. But the vote will still be vetted. [[He's waiting a while.]] Is the vote okay, or is someone getting off with the objection? No, it's okay, so I'm done discussing the first reading of this government proposal. Opening up another point, that's it.
