ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u1	318. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. Before I pass the word first drawn in order, Mrs Karla Maříková, I will read the apologies. [[Mr. Faltynek is reporting a word.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u2	Thank you. Hello, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry, but I have a request. I would like to correct the record of the vote from this meeting number 174, which dealt with the Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television in 2016. I have an electronic vote that I have abstained, but I voted in favour. I do not question the vote. I'm just asking for a change in the vote record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u3	Thank you. That's enough for the screen recording. I'll read the apologies. Apologies to Minister Adam Vojtěch today from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons and on 24 October from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. on urgent business matters. Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day because of the working session. Mr Petr Venhoda apologizes today, 24. 10th, for family reasons. Mr. Jiří Strýček apologizes today from 14.30 to 17.30 for work reasons. And Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes today from 14:00 to the end of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for work reasons. I ask Mrs Karla Maříková to take the floor and give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, the Czech Justice has informed the Czech Republic that the Czech Republic is preparing for a situation where an excessive wave of immigrants would target the territory and introduce a completely new institute of management in the event of a special situation. The Institute would always be activated only by a government regulation and supplemented by other instruments such as the re-establishing of border controls or a crisis plan for a large-scale migration wave. It would concern both illegally incoming foreigners and those who would go to other countries. This results from the proposed amendment to the asylum law. The introduction of this new institute is the completion of one of the national security audit tasks of 2016 which defined the need to implement sufficiently effective international protection management. In this respect, please answer the following questions. The activation of this procedure in the event of a specific situation would undoubtedly have implications for the state budget. Can you tell me, Prime Minister, how much would this burden the state budget, and how could individual departments handle this in personnel, now that we are dealing with a lack of police officers? The army is also not much better, and there is no doubt that the resort of health care would be burdened. He's dealing with a shortage of both doctors and nonmedical personnel. Next, please answer me what specific crisis plans would be activated by the government in the event of such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u5	Thank you. Since the Prime Minister is excused, the interview will be answered in writing within 30 days. I will ask Mrs Věra Kovářová to perform with her interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u6	Dear Prime Minister, two years have passed in the past days since the 2017 parliamentary elections, and soon it will also be two years since you were first appointed Prime Minister. And that's an opportunity for balance. I'm going to focus on the balance of your presence on the interpelling process. I would rather, of course, focus on topics that are bothering citizens, but it is not so good without you and it is of course not useful to write with your subordinates. I've gotten used to the fact that you're absent from writing interviews. But we're getting more and more missing you at oral patronage. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, you have been missing 11 times out of the total 24 days of oral questioning. And that's slowly approaching 50 percent of the absence. Your predecessor, Prime Minister Sobotka, was in a comparable period of absence in eight cases. I don't think it's gonna be much easier if I say Prime Minister Sobotka went to work, you don't go to work. You will surely argue that you represent the Czech Republic in the world, but everything has its own peace. You clearly assign your ways over your duties to the Chamber of Deputies. Sometimes reasons are compelling, such as when the European Council is acting, but sometimes I have significant doubts. Like yesterday when you represented the President in Japan. Mr. President, who was looking for you in the Chamber, but apparently he didn't know about this representation. Dear Prime Minister, will you try to do something about your frequent absences in the Chamber of Deputies and at least approach your predecessor, Mr Sobotka? Or do you intend to continue to ignore your duties and answer questions by cowardly correspondence only in writing? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u7	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. Next is Mr. Petr Třešňák, with an interview with the Prime Minister on the abolition of adictological centres. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. absent Prime Minister. Thanks to reckless cuts in the budget for next year, our citizens will be threatened with hepatitis or HIV. Despite this government's commitment, you are reducing funding for the operation of dependent services, which reduce risks to all residents thanks to their work. A high-quality network of functional adictological services has been built for years and you can destroy them in a few years and because of minimal expenditures such as millions of crowns, while billions are scattered in other areas. I must warn you that the treatment of every infected person costs us hundreds of thousands. If a liver transplant is to occur in a more severe course of jaundice, then millions should be transplanted. Money will be missing not only for services, but also for medical supplies, for the exchange of syringes and their safe disposal, and thus for the protection of public health against infectious diseases such as jaundice and HIV. Not throwing used syringes away in public, but changing them within contact centres or field programs taught nonprofits to drug users for over 20 years, and now you're gonna take their money and throw this job in the trash in just one year. Moreover, we are in an absolutely absurd situation where the government increases taxes on alcohol and, on the other hand, destroys an auxiliary network to combat alcohol addiction. So why isn't this money being used, what are you going to raise extra? Allow me, Prime Minister, please describe specific steps for 2020 to prevent a deterioration in outpatient care for alcohol, drugs and gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u9	Thank you. It shall also be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka. He's not in the O.R., so his interpellation is failing. The next in line is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček with an interview to the Prime Minister on the sale of the spa house Mercur. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I appeal to the absent prime minister with essentially a request or a request to make some kind of intervention out of his power. And my point is, 19. 8. and then 24. 9. I intervened with the Minister of Interior on the sale of the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně. I was not satisfied with the answer, and I expected that we would be able to discuss things, but at this current meeting, not one Thursday, we were unable to discuss the matter, and given that further steps are taking, which are irrefutable - according to my information, that the employees were given statements - I ask the Prime Minister to be informed and to provide me with some information on this matter. The reason for ending the spa house is so called. the financial intensity for investments and repairs, when the total investment in 2017 for the correction, for the total reconstruction, was estimated at 300 million. Crowns. 300 miles. Crowns. The second important reason for termination is the government's demand for a reduction, a 3% reduction in employees. [[Number]] That would release 30 people who care for members of the security forces. I would like to point out that according to the report, the spa house is located in the most beautiful location of the city directly opposite the spa colonnade, where one stay, the day of stay, pays about CZK 2,000 to CZK 2,500, with less than 500 crowns per day in this spa house according to our studies. So I would ask and ask the Prime Minister's answer: do you consider this procedure of the Ministry of the Interior, the sale of the spa house Mercury, to be an activity consistent with the care of a proper economic operator? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u11	Thank you. It shall again be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll read the apologies. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologizes today between 15.00 and 23.59 for family reasons. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková apologises today from 14:30 to 17:00 for work reasons. Mrs Jana Krutáková today from 14.30 to 17 hours, Mr Radek Zlesák apologizes today between 14.30 and 16.30 for work reasons. Next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka. He's not in the O.R., so his interpellation is failing. Another interpellation is failing. And now there will be oral interpelations on the other members of the government. I call on Mr Jaroslav Kytýr to give an interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Petr Třešňák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the absence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I am withdrawing my intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u13	Yes, thank you. So the next in line is Mr. Petr Třešňák with an interview on Minister Karel Havlíček on the construction of nuclear power plants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u14	Good afternoon again. Mr Minister, I am partly ahead of the question because next month there will be a meeting of the Standing Committee on the Construction of New Nuclear Resources, which we are both members of, but nevertheless I am responding to last week's media statement, and both yours and the Prime Minister, and I think that they deserve a more detailed explanation perhaps even in this plenary. It was claimed that it was necessary to build in both locations as quickly as possible, i.e. Dukovany and Temelín. Here I will remind you that at the first meeting of the Standing Committee in March, in the presence of Minister Nováková, I have just pointed out that the launch of the Temelín site from other considerations is not entirely appropriate, and whether both the Government Committee and CEZ should not deal with both locations simultaneously, i.e. at least on the part of all administrative processes, the selection process and subsequently the LVA phase, which will take place before the actual implementation. The Government Committee, however, adopted a resolution in the following form at the time: point 2.1, concentrate the maximum capacity and resources needed to prepare and implement NJZ in Dukovany, with a priority of up to 1,200 megawatts with an extension of 2,400, and point 2.2, manage ET's activities in such a way as to maintain the possibility of rapid activation if necessary. Point 2.2 is therefore understandable in many ways, yet my question is: will this resolution be reviewed and the preparation run in parallel for both sites, or will the maximum capacity at this point really focus only on the Dukovany site? Next, the Prime Minister said to the Committee on European Affairs: the Czech Republic must push for the construction of new blocks, even if it were to violate European law. The question, then, is what we should imagine under the violation of European law, and the second question, if the first negotiations with the European Commission are yet to begin, is it not unnecessary for the Czech Republic to dig up trenches before the negotiations themselves take place. I made it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u15	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you very much for asking. As for the possible launch - and I have mentioned several strong words of discussion over the expansion of Temelín - this should not be paired with Dukovan's preparation at the moment. Purely because Dukovany is an extremely demanding project, the project has already been de facto launched. It started with the adoption of the resolution for Dukovan construction, followed by the EIA, and there are a number of very difficult discussions taking place both with the investor, i.e. ČEZ, so we have already started the discussion within the European Commission and, of course, we are preparing all the necessary elements for us to start preparing the notification, which should be next year. At the same time, we have to say in parallel, and it is extremely important to start preparing the extension of blocks 1 to 4, because their lifetime will end in the mid-thirties, and in the second half of the 1930s, Dukova's five could be finished, that is, if we were to end one to four, we would even be even worse off by about 800 megawatts. So we need to pull all the strings so we can extend Dukovany's existing and build a five in Dukovany. The fact that we mentioned Temelín is due to the fact that we are beginning to evaluate the situation in the coming years, I would almost say even decades, not only from the point of view of decarbonization in the Czech Republic, but from the point of view of surplus or lack of electricity throughout Europe. And the latest analysis of CEPS, perhaps you had the opportunity to see it, was published last week, talks about the fact that from the 1930s there will be a big problem where electricity will be purchased within Europe, and more or less from 2035 and there will be only two European countries, respectively. three which will have a surplus of electricity, namely France, Spain and partly one of the Nordic countries. Europe's exit as a result of decarbonisation will be in big trouble, and Germany will be in a situation at that time that it will be about right on its capacities in terms of consumption. So we are in an unfavourable situation, and for this reason it is essential to start preparing, but so far it is really just a discussion that the preparation of Temelín would also begin. The Temelín could follow Dukovany, or the second half of the 1930s, so that in an ideal situation it was built between 2040 and 2045. That means we have approximately three or four years to get this trial started. This process means that the government must adopt this as a resolution, and all preparatory work will begin, which is extremely difficult, and at the moment it would cause us some complications if we were to do Dukovany at the same time and Temelín at the same time. So we're going on to the Dukovans, but within three or four years, it would be a good idea to consider the term very carefully and possibly decide for it so that in fact 2023 plus 20, that's 43, it could be completed. As for the comments that have been made, this must be taken with a certain degree of exaggeration. Yes, the Prime Minister said that we must build, even if it should be "against the European Union." This meant, in particular, that we had to respond hard to what the European Union had released, from our point of view, it was a measure and a bit of provocation, perhaps a bit of politics, when, in fact, a message came from the European Union in the sense that the core could be perceived as a dirty source. This is a very serious statement that if it actually got into rhetoric e.g. funding institutions, so it would make it extremely expensive to finance new nuclear blocks, I daresay, almost exclude the possibility that we could build something like this. Not to mention the fact that it might slip into a situation of no funding. So we're saying very resolutely that it's not true that the core is not a dirty source, which, after all, is proven with regard to emissions. We can discuss where and how nuclear waste will be stored. All we have to say is that nuclear waste is not only from nuclear power plants, but 30% of domestic waste of this nature is from industry and hospitals, so we will not get rid of it either way, but we are preparing a full scenario of how nuclear storage will be built, including a timetable. We have resources ready for this, we are discussing the location etc. So it was to some extent an answer. [[14.50 hours]] In any case, we and the European Commission - and consider this answer as an exaggeration, where we simply say that we ourselves have to set rules in terms of energy mix. koneckonců all, so did the European Commission. We must follow not only our need, but also our economic, say, economic options, our industrial structure, our economy, and at the same time, of course, we are very intensively communicating with everyone - who is around us. [[The President enters into speech: Time! - You can't understand a speaker.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u17	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Small. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u18	Maybe just a quick refill. And otherwise, I thank the Minister for his reply. I'll pick up where I ended up with the last question that you answered in part. However, it may be more of a question of your opinion, because the Prime Minister is not here today. But if it is such a sensitive subject and the Prime Minister already presumes that the Czech Republic would violate European law, if it is not a strong claim, given how sensitive the negotiations in the European Commission will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u20	No, so every time an important project is done, there's a little bit of a stronger claim on both sides from time to time. We also take into account what the EU has said in the sense of a pure or unclean source. On the other hand, we simply need to be able to express our opinion clearly, and sometimes it is true that we must also adequately rule out the debate. But in any case, it doesn't change the fact that we keep acting. I troufat say that these negotiations with the European Commission are going very correctly. I don't want to say successfully at this point because we're at the very beginning. But we are actually dealing with all the stakeholders, we are preparing all the documents, we are preparing everything so that the notification process can be successfully initiated. We're discussing the parameters, we're dealing with it legally, we're discussing it in economic terms. And what is important is that we communicate very intensively with our neighbours as well. Of course, from time to time, there is always a report of a rather political nature, that one or the other political factor, whether from the region, the governor, etc., especially from Austria, will make some strong statement. I meet with individual government representatives of Austria and Germany. Coincidentally, I'm about to have a German secretary here. Two weeks ago, I met with the Austrian minister. And we explain, we show the timetable, we show the investment model, the supply model, the security. We're just trying not to fall under any emotions, get provoked by no one, and really explain every move we make with the core. But at the same time, we tell everyone fair and square that it's up to us to make this decision, and we just have to decide on energy self-sufficiency and, of course, on the energy mix ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u21	Well, thank you. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová on the enforcement of the benefits received. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u22	The Chamber of Deputies, on 30 May, adopted Resolution 643 at an emergency meeting to finance social services. Among other points in this resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal to amend Decree No. 505/2006 Coll., implementing certain provisions of the Social Services Act, valorising payment limits for catering and accommodation services in residential facilities and hourly rates for operations in field and outpatient services in connection with increasing the costs of providing these services." Providers across the Czech Republic have long pointed out that, given the increasing costs of energy, food, services are very important to the regulation of Decree No. 505 in order to be able to continue to maintain the quality of care provided for their clients. We have 24 today. 10. and, as I was checking, no draft amendment of the decree has yet arrived in the House. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I ask you how it is possible that the government ignores the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. How is it that the draft decree has not yet been submitted by the government? And what is your responsibility, Minister Maláčová, who is responsible for the field of social services? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u23	Thank you. Yes, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Another in turn is Mr Karel Rais, with an interview also to the absent Minister Jana Maláčová on the enforcement of the benefits received. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u24	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. One of the critical points in the process of payment of social benefits is the assessment of the health status and working capacity of persons. This should include the detection of fraud involving the identification, investigation and subsequent recovery of undue benefits for anomalous and fraudulent cases. Ten years ago, i.e. in 2009, a feasibility study was carried out at the MPSV, with the acquisition of a service to investigate non-standard cases for further examination as one of the pillars of an efficient system. In 2011, the Ministry submitted material for discussion of the government, where provision of the service was envisaged in such a way that no costs would be incurred by the State. The supplier was therefore to be paid out of the savings actually achieved, with an estimated savings of two to five percent, which at the time meant savings of 1.6 to 4 billion. per year. A public contract was subsequently issued, when the only proven possible supplier was contacted, which had the relevant references and, above all, could immediately start the activity, and this was IBM. However, the signing of the contract was not due to the cancellation of the procurement procedure by the Office for the Protection of Competition. This could, of course, have been addressed by launching a new procurement procedure. However, the Ministry has not issued any other contract for the provision of such a service and according to my information, it has not carried out any activities in this regard. We have a beautiful ten-year anniversary, and if I base my previous assumption on the amount of savings, then in ten years it's about 16 to 40 billion, or what you accused us of yesterday in the state budget as a deficit. My question. Why has the idea of using the service to detect fraud in social benefits, which was pregnantly formulated ten years ago, not yet realized by the Ministry? In what way does he reveal or intend to expose complex frauds, which undoubtedly cannot be solved by means of a pencil and paper? [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u25	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Alena Schillerová on the matter of chaos in the Financial Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u26	Madam Secretary, in the past few days, the media have informed the media that a large part of EET's cash certificates will end in the coming months. Of course - and this is the devil hidden in detail - they don't automatically recover. Why I speak of the devil, you will understand easily. Once the certificate has expired, the sales are no longer registered and the certificate cannot be renewed or renewed after the expiry or revocation of the certificate. You're saying how you're trying to bring Financial Administration closer to tax entities, digitize it. Underneath, for example, I would imagine that the extension of the certificate either passes automatically, or the tax entity will be informed e.g. SSM address that it will occur as it is planned e.g. in the case of civil documents, if they are valid. Or maybe he'll be a tax entity... Sorry. If I have the right information, this is not happening and the Financial Administration is waiting. He is waiting to improve his budget from the fines granted for the omission of the obligation to renew the certificate, which, of course, few people know about. I would rather expect methodical guidance and thorough prevention than silence from the Financial Administration. Madam Secretary, wouldn't it be worth doing something about it? Are you constantly talking about trying to simplify the Financial Administration, humanize it, and you don't want to strengthen its preventive and methodical activities, or are you going to put the tax entities, especially the smaller ones, under your feet? I'd expect this help from the Financial Administration rather than the sticks under my feet. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u27	Thank you. And I'll ask the secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, I believe I will dispel your concerns and completely distract and explain because you do not have the right information. There. Cash certificates - first a little bit of what it is - are used to sign data reports on registered sales sent to the EET system and are valid for three years for security reasons in particular. After this period, they automatically expire. In order to ensure the smoothness of the registration of sales, it is therefore necessary for the taxpayer to ensure that they are exchanged in due time. Setting a limited period of validity of certificates - and this is not a matter of Financial Administration, I will now explain, because it is issued by the certification authority - is a generally extended security standard that is used to secure the system against any form of abuse. The certificate exchange mechanism therefore protects the payer in particular and the data he sends to the EET system. [[15.00 hours]] As far as the duration of the period of validity is concerned, then the three-year interval is in line with generally widespread practice in this area and this option is more user-friendly for taxpayers than the option in which the exchange takes place, for example, after a year or two, so it is such a maximum period, because the certificates issued by the certification authority are normally valid for one year. So this is where the three-year period was agreed to keep the taxpayers as little as possible burdened as possible. The fee certificate for the record of sales can then be generated completely free of charge in the environment of the web application of electronic records of sales on the tax portal www.dana.electronically.cz , subsequently this new certificate is installed in a cashier's facility through which sales are registered. In cases where it is not possible for a payer to install a self-help certificate using, for example, instructions for a cashier's device, he may contact the cashier's supplier. Most of the time, it's self-help, but somewhere, as the Financial Administration has prepared for me, that's what the contractor's gonna do. Whether or not the supplier performs the installation free of charge is something extra. He can either generate it himself, or it depends on how his contractual terms are set between the taxpayer and the supplier. In many cases, as the Financial Administration has verified, this is part of services provided free of charge and automatically from the acquisition of cashiers. If necessary, it is also possible to contact to support the record of sales. Infolinka and contact form is at www.etrzby.cz. The need to exchange the certificate was sufficiently and provenly communicated in advance. The financial administration has long been communicating with taxpayers through various available channels and I will point out above all: it has issued a press release in good time, which is on their website; carried out a rather massive information campaign in the media, from which you probably also know; information on the need for the exchange of certificates was further published on the web www.etržby.cz, as I spoke, and here are also detailed instructions on how to proceed in the exchange of certificates. It is directly - if you drive there, www.etrzby.cz and then you continue to exchange the certificate, you directly click the certificate exchange bookmark, exchange - certificate. Information to entrepreneurs on the record of sales The Financial Administration sends the certificate to the email address before the expiry of the certificate. Everyone gets an e-mail. Everyone to whom it ends, because most of them ended now in November for the first wave, the others will end in the spring for the second wave, and each can end a little differently. It doesn't have to be the same for the day. Each user gets an e-mail alert before expiry. Intervals of sending an email with an alert for the end of the certificate are sent for two months, two weeks and three days before the expiry of a particular certificate. Information to entrepreneurs registering sales via sms - Financial Administration prepares sending before expiry to those who have only registered a telephone number in the web application, so they only receive a text. Someone's got an e-mail, somebody's got a phone number. As part of the expert discussions of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration with the developers of cashiers - So if you give me a chance, I will answer you. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u30	Thank you for your answer. As soon as I bought, I'm still selling. In one small restaurant near Kláštera, Hájek, it is a community of people where cyclists meet, they play guitar there, they also help people in need. The Hostinský told me what kind of trouble he had with the renewal of the certificate, and it wasn't easy. I'm just saying it would be a shame if he closed the pub. That means that if the Financial Administration and the EET are so complicated for such a small businessman, that's exactly what EET is really up to. So I just hope that the way you told me that the Financial Administration was pointing out that they would get, or they would get, and they would be alerted, or did it come about after most of the certificates actually failed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u31	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u32	No, of course, Madame. I'm sorry if the pub guy you're talking about can text me, I'll be happy to e-mail you. I'll give you this whole answer where you have all the links. Of course it's happening. It would be too late now, because the deadlines I'm telling you are under way. As part of the expert discussions of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration with the developers of cashiers, the possibility of creating a technical interface for issuing API certificates was considered - this is some technical expression - on the part of the certification authority. The API would allow you to apply for the certificate automatically directly from the cashier's facility, based on the current valid payer's certificate without the need for ingerence of the payer, and based on the assessment of all relevant aspects, that is to say technical, legislative and security, it was concluded that only the existing certificate generation solution through the Financial Administration tax portal meets all the security requirements for the whole process and respects the statutory requirements for obtaining the certificate, so that it must have requirements for maintaining the EET system's security standards compared to any requirements for improving the comfort of managing the certificate, or safety, in particular, if I shorten it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u33	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes today between 15.30 and 17.15 for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes from today's meeting from 15.00 to the end of the meeting for working reasons and tomorrow, 25. 10th, all day for medical reasons. Mr Jan Zahradník apologizes today from 15 to 18 o'clock for personal reasons and Mr Pavel Žáček today from 15.00 to 18.30 for work reasons. I ask Mr. František Navrkal to take the floor with an interview with Minister Robert Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Plaga, as you know, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has prepared a school lunch program through which the directors of educational establishments have the opportunity to raise money to pay for lunches for children from socially weak families. In my native Ústí Region, where there is a high share of socially weak families, we did not participate in the program due to the long hesitation of regional representatives until this school year. The programme has many very positive impacts, increases school attendance, benefits and promotes their greater involvement in extracurricular activities. In the local media, however, I learned that the lunch program for schools in our region came across another unexpected problem, namely the distaste of school directors and kindergartens to participate. In the media, their often scandalous statements have been made, for example, that students do not deserve free lunches if their parents smoke cigarettes. That's completely absurd. You can't raise your parents by letting the school starve their children. Other directors then mentioned that the complex administration associated with their involvement in the programme was a significant obstacle to them. Although the programme itself falls under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I am sure that in a number of respects your Ministry could help to remove the obstacles mentioned. For these reasons, I would like to ask you - first: Does your ministry respond or will it respond to the statements made by the directors of educational establishments and their rejection of the lunch project to schools? How in particular? Secondly, how does your ministry intend to address the growing administrative burden that prevents schools from participating, among other things, in the subsidy programme in question? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u35	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Mr. Jurečka's not here, so his interpellation is failing. Next in line is the interview of Mrs Ivana Nevludová to the absent Minister Jana Maláčová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, in the eKLEP system, I looked up an updated version of the family policy concept, the first version of 29 May 2019, which went into the comment procedure, and then another version of 31 July 2019 submitted to the Government. I wonder why a new measure has been introduced into the Government version, namely: 5.10, which did not go through the commentary procedure and thus could not comment on it anymore. I quote: "Remove discrimination against same-sex families in the legal order of the Czech Republic, which aims to settle the legal status of the civil code, where homoparent families can marry, and therefore these families will be viewed in the legal order as well as married heterosexual couples. Thus, the same sexual couples will have the same status as couples and will be able to develop their family relationships in the same way, either by marrying or by entering into a registered partnership, which will carry with them the same rights and obligations as marriages, including children's rights. It will also be possible to adopt the child of a partner or partner to registered couples through an amendment to the Civil Code or amendment to Act No. 115/2006 Coll., on Registered Partnership." I am interested in how material with this controversial measure can get into the government, with comments being circled and the possibility of marrying gay couples can be anticipated in the submitted material, when this bill is merely in the form of a proposal submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u37	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. Next is Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček on the case of Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the case of Maříková. This is an interesting title, but in the report "Shows of extremism and predicate hatred" by the Ministry of the Interior as a summary situational report for the second quarter of 2019, and this report was prepared on 8 August of this year, section 1.3. In the Czech Republic, we know the case of Balda and others mentioned here. But these are cases that have already taken place by final judgment, and they are final cases. Unfortunately, among the cases mentioned here is also written in this report: acts of criminal proceedings have been initiated on suspicion of committing a crime of incitement to hatred against a group of persons or to restrict other rights and freedoms against SPD Member Karla Maříková for her statements - and so on. When we discussed this with you on the Security Committee, we said we were having a problem. Firstly, it should not be mentioned, but especially how this information got to the Ministry of the Interior when the preparatory proceedings for criminal proceedings are not public by law. And that's when we discussed that there was going to be some kind of investigation, and at the last meeting of the committee where your deputy was, we discussed this matter again, and there was a word that the Ministry of Interior received this information from the SKPV, that is, the criminal police. So I ask where, from whom did the author of this report obtain information about the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mrs Karla Maříková when the preparatory proceedings of criminal proceedings are by law not public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u39	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u40	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, I would like to assure you and all citizens of the Czech Republic that, in this case, which is connected with your name, there has been no leak of data from the file, and there will be no leak. There's no way the Home Office has access to the investigation files. In that summary situational report on the manifestations of extremism and predicate hatred in the second quarter of 2019, the Member was mentioned in the context of her public opinion, which was widely mediated. And that simple information about the initiation of criminal proceedings on suspicion of committing a crime of incitement to hatred against a group of persons or to restrict their rights and freedoms was obtained from the police in the context of the collection of documents into the situational report. The Ministry of Interior did not receive any further information on this matter. The Ministry, when it compiles this report, logically draws information from the police, intelligence services and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. So I want to make sure once again that there's been no leak from the file. We can have a debate, and I am ready to continue the debate that we have had on the Security Committee, whether such documents should only mention cases where a final judgment is already in place, where the investigation is therefore concluded. I think so, and I'm sure I'll give the appropriate instructions in this regard. But I want to make it clear that both you and the public have not leaked the investigation file.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u41	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u42	Thank you. Of course, I'd be happy to have that debate with you. I'd like the Justice Department to be there, too, to set our limits precisely, whether this pre-trial trial is therefore not public and that information should be kept by the Ministry of the Interior and written in such messages or not. I fully agree with you that things should be finished there, where we already have a final decision. I have read the report several times, and I must commend you for writing that domestic and foreign experiences show that tolerating verbal hate speech leads them to grow beyond physical violence - yes, work on it, because the company polarizes very quickly and those cases that threaten people, whether publicly active or only for those who have an opinion on the matter, are growing, and if we do not deal with it, it will grow into the physical violence that you are talking about here. So I'll be very happy if we discuss these things and this doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u43	Thank you. So the next question is Mrs. Pavla Golasowská. He will speak to Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on media of national minorities. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in the context of the subsidy programme Supporting the dissemination and reception of information in the languages of national minorities, which is deeply underfunded, and the Ministry of Culture has long been drawing attention to this serious problem. This subsidy programme allows national minorities to issue periodic media in their own language and, unfortunately, compared to 2011, the total volume of these funds fell by almost 8 million crowns to a total of CZK 20 000 850, although costs naturally increased. A whole range of these media have existential problems as a result. Although your ministry has promised representatives of national minorities a solution to this problem, this low, undignified amount is again in the draft budget of the Ministry for 2020. You yourself come from the Moravian-Silesian region, and therefore you know that national minorities there are enriching for this region, and coexistence is extremely important. I would therefore like to ask you whether or not you will initiate or support an effort to return the amount to a dignified level for the 2020 subsidy programme. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u45	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u46	Thank you. Yes, Mrs Golasowská is right that North Moravia is a bit like Manhattan, New York, where the national minorities have traditionally joined us. I know that these funds are being drawn up - the magazine of the Polish minority Glos, the German Landesecho and Slovak Touches, so these are really requirements that I think are completely justified. You're also right about what you said, that there was a drop, that there were originally 30 million and that it fell to some 21, as you rightly stated. I can say that, as I have verified, the Ministry of Culture has repeatedly asked for an increase, so every year it asks for it to at least return to the original value with the fact that it is actually less real, and it has done so now, but we have not succeeded in doing so. So at this point, it's still like there's 21 of them, and there hasn't been a change that you would actually want. [[15.20 hours]] However, I would like to tell you that I am conducting talks with the Minister of Finance, which have now been the last, as you know, quite successful in the fact that we have agreed that we will get some additional resources into this cultural activity programme, and I would at least consider releasing the 4-5 million to this programme of national minorities. So I guess I can't quite say what you'd think would come back because there's a lot of demands there, but at least half of me would try to raise it. That's what I can promise now, what I intend to do. And in fact, in what you generally say, you are right that the aim of decently supporting minorities is entirely in line with that. Also, the results of the last meeting of the Council of the Government for National Minorities, where, if I have been informed, this programme has been discussed quite extensively and the urgent needs of minorities have been mentioned there. So I'm actually going to try to update this position at least to increase it, if that's what the situation allows me to do, a certain amount that will make the situation a little bit better. So I agree with you. I am glad that you are responding to this, and I can assure you that in the context of the grant proceedings for the benefit of the national minorities, I will make every effort to implement the objectives that the government has and to release them from state resources to meaningful and necessary projects. I know that even the number of projects that are being administered is growing. As far as I know, the last time it was about 14 national minorities who were provided funds for about 23 projects, and I am convinced that these are the projects needed, and I will try to help them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u47	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an answer?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u48	I, Minister, thank you very much, and I will take your word for it. I think that if members of national minorities are watching us now, as they have said, that they will be watching today's interpelation, they will certainly enjoy it, although not as much of the increase as they requested, but I believe that in future years there may be some sort of settlement, because I think it is very important that we also remember national minorities in the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u49	Thank you. Next is Mr Zdeněk Podal with an interview to Minister Vladimír Kremlík on personal train transport. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, dear absent minister, I would like to interpel you on the issue of the train connection between Prague and Hradec Králové. In this matter I have already intersected your predecessors, unfortunately the findings of the present time have not convinced me that the situation in this area has improved. I'll be specific. Eighteen. 10th at 15.06 I tried to get into the speedster Hradec Králové in Hradec. I waited in the lobby and watched the light board, which announced about 15 minutes before the train left that this speedster was leaving from platform 3. So I took off on the 3rd platform, along with the other passengers, where we were waiting for a speedster to be set up. We were unsure that there was no mention of this connection on the third platform's light indicator. I decided to go back to the lobby to find out what was going on. On the way I found out that the speedster was being announced to platform 2. On this platform, I asked the conductor what that meant. He told me at the last minute they were diverted from the 3rd to the 2nd platform. Another unpleasant surprise for me and the other passengers was that all the seats were occupied. There were awkward situations where, just as I did, an older lady dragged a bulky bag behind her and asked when she saw us standing in the alley, if there was any hope of getting a place. I heard from standing passengers, like in India, missus. Only on the roof. The lady misunderstood the joke and replied that at her age, with such a large bag, she wouldn't have made it to the roof. The joker was glad again: Don't worry, we'll throw the suitcase behind you. But now the fun's over. It would really not be possible to inform passengers on the original platform, i.e. the third that the train stands elsewhere, or use light panels that were not... [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time.]] Would it really not be possible to assign more cars at Friday's peak, which is repeated regularly? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u51	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mr Pavel Růžička with an interview with Minister Lubomír Metnar on the organizational integration of OJ.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u52	Dear Minister, into what subordinates and organisational structure will be included the Office for Defence Standardization, Cataloguing and State Quality Verification and a component exercising the authority of the Board of Appeal on behalf of the Ministry of Defence as at 1. 1. 2020? I'm asking, given the lost dispute of the Ministry of Defence with the Uherský Brod armory, where this office played a crucial role. The Office also carries out quality assessments for police, Customs Administration, Firefighters and the Ministry of Defence mentioned above. I know that by law, the office is a separate administrative office. In doing so, the previous Minister of Defence tasked both the Director of the Office and the Secretary of State, who decides to appeal against the decision of the Office. People are currently defending this procedure in your subjection, and there is a danger that this practice will continue. If this office is in fact in the structure of the Ministry of Defence, it cannot independently carry out its activities towards the Ministry of Defence, and this leads to non-standard procedures for contracts that go through the section of arms and acquisitions. There are similar litigations and financial compensations for damaged companies. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u53	Thank you. Yes, this interview will be answered in writing. Next in line with the interpelation will be Mrs. Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček on the subject of the Institute of Perdition of a Stranger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u54	Thank you. Minister of the Interior Hamáček, the Ministry of the Interior has submitted a proposal for an amendment to the asylum law, which envisages the extension of the so-called extension. A foreigner's patience institute. In practice, this would mean that the Czech authorities would be forced to grant refugee status to those who are not entitled to it. Moreover, it would not really be possible to expel these persons from the Czech Republic even if they threatened the security of our country. The Ministry argues that it must adopt an amendment to the asylum law due to the need to respond to the practical changes arising from the conduct of international protection proceedings. However, the legal analysis of the Tricolore movement refutes this and other such arguments. The EU does not force us to adopt this amendment. My question is: Could you please inform the House of the reasons why you want to endanger security in such a fundamental way? Could you please explain to me, for you to expand the institution of alien patience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u55	Thank you. I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u56	Madam Vice-President, it is a bit symptomatic that a seminar took place at the subcommittee on immigration, where representatives of the Ministry of Interior were prepared and explained to the Members who had lost what it was about. There was no one from the Tricolor movement. I'm ready to wage a political duel with the new Tricolor movement. We can talk about how the tax system is supposed to look, we can talk about what the social system, the pension system are supposed to look like, but what I'm not prepared to do is face lies and misinformation. The Czech Republic is one of the safest countries in the world and it will remain this way. And I, as Home Secretary, will not allow anything to jeopardize the security of the Czech Republic. And that amendment to the asylum law is an essential step towards improving our country's security. And I absolutely do not understand how it is possible that someone will take a step that leads to improving the security of the Czech Republic, turn completely around and campaign against the Minister of the Interior and the Government of the Czech Republic in hand with Russian disinformation servers. [[15.30 hours]] Madam, please come to know what is in the law! I'm ready to explain, I'm ready to bring in the Home Office experts. But it's certainly not about bringing in new illegal migrants in some way. The Czech Republic has its asylum system, which is very strict. Asylum serves to save the life of someone who may lose it because he is threatened with death or persecution. The system is so strict that last year out of 1,700 applications we granted slightly over 40. And the so-called institution of patience does not apply to asylum proceedings at all. This means, if anyone is not entitled to asylum, he is deported, respectively. Returned. The reason for this change concerns a very exceptional situation, and this is a situation where there is a citizen of a foreign state who is entitled to asylum in the Czech Republic but who commits a criminal offence. They're human units. The last thing I remember was a Nigerian citizen who committed a drug offense here, and the current law didn't allow us to deport such a person very quickly. We had to initiate a withdrawal procedure, and there was the right to appeal, and it lasted for several years. That is why we are following the judgment of the European Court, which has come to our attention and confirmed that we have the right to tighten this procedure, so that is why we are proposing it. This means, at the moment of this exceptional case, that there will be someone in the Czech territory who will receive asylum and commit a crime, so the Ministry of the Interior will not, unlike the current legislation, grant asylum. He'll only be granted an institution of patience. And in a moment - Madam, we cannot expel him! If there's a death threat, I'm not gonna wear a shirt that I'm gonna send someone home to shoot him! This is simply a commitment of the Czech Republic. We are a democratic country, and I cannot send someone home as Minister of a Democratic country if he is threatened with death! All I'm saying is that if he committed a crime here, we'll give him a lower level of protection. And the moment the reasons pass, we can deport him. But we can deport him faster than we can in the current version. Please study this and don't surf on a wave of cheap populism! It's undignified!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u57	I thank the Minister for his reply and the Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u58	So I'm going to respond, even if I absolutely don't respond to notes about some servers that I didn't really draw from. I read it, and six other lawyers read it besides me. So then I don't know what we're talking about. However, you're constantly turning it into an asylum law, and I'm talking about dislodgement of the institute of alien patience. So I'll read you the current legal status and the proposed wording. Before that I would like to add: I would very much like to take part in the seminar, but we have had a working meeting of the Interinstitutional Union, which will also be confirmed by the sitting Vice-President of the House, Mr Tomáš Hanzel. So the current legal situation and the proposed changes. According to the provisions of § 15 para. 3 The asylum law has so far been that asylum cannot be granted if a foreigner has committed a crime against peace, war crime or a crime against humanity within the meaning of international documents... [[Time warning]] Did I run out of time? Can't I extend it? Well, I'm out of luck. So the Geneva Convention is binding on us until now. They could have been expelled for crimes. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u59	The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u60	Madam, fire these six lawyers and come to the Home Office, we'll explain!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u61	Thank you. The next is Mr Radek Koten, with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová on the matter of micro-door. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u62	Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary, absent, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you a question about the methodology manual of your ministry, which is called Child Care in Microjesles. A representative from the gender expert chamber and the NGO Gender Studies worked on the design of the material. Among other things, it says: We pay special attention to the stereotypical division of roles between men and women, we assign activities that interfere with this perception. We encourage girls and boys to play games that are commonly attributed only to one sex. We also choose stories in which different family models occur or which do not work with traditional stereotypes in the roles of men and women. Among other things, there are several examples of gender-sensitive and environmentally sensitive literature for children in the literature list. However, this kind of indoctrination of children from the early age in kindergartens and microjesles gender ideologies is very twisted in my opinion. According to this material, microdoes offer care for children from six months to four years and in a group of up to four children. Micro-axis are currently funded under the pilot project of the European Social Fund. However, we are now coming to a change in the funding of these micro-weasels. At present, preschools receive a child from EU support per child of CZK 8,500 per month. They support children from one year to six years, including quality preschool education. However, after the introduction of micro-doubts, the MPSV kindergartens will receive only CZK 5 000 per child. They will only support children from six months to the fourth birthday. However, preschool children from four to six years of age will no longer receive money. In addition, support for younger children will be reduced by these 3,500 per month per child. This will lead to a deterioration of preschool education and, in some cases, even to the liquidation of kindergartens or to a significant increase in parental services. [[Attention, time's up.]] So please answer my question. How do you want to handle this? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u63	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Radek Holomčík with an interview to the Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček in the case of Czech Post, part one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u64	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, according to the Annual Report of the Czech Post for 2018, whose management was for the first time loss-making, there is a reason that inadequate demands from the state are the main cause, which is especially the need to deliver every working day to all addresses in the Czech Republic. So why has the Czech Post largely liquidated its services in the delivery of unaddressed shipments with a brutal price of almost 400 percent? Before that, she had finished delivering newspapers with a yield of nearly 400 billion. per year. According to the original strategy, commercial delivery services were to compensate for the trend in the decline in letter mail. Does the Czech Post want to live only from compensation from the state? Or are we on our way to liquidate the Czech Post, when, in addition, most of the services were already in decline last year? I am asking this, in particular, because the Czech Post services it provides to citizens are quite very important and especially towards the countryside in small towns, where shops are simply being cut down, pubs are closing in villages, I will not discuss the reasons now, so, from my point of view, threatening mail in a fundamental way may jeopardise the availability of services in rural and small towns. That's why I'm asking, and I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u65	Thank you, and I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer. And before the microphone comes, I'll read Mr. Petr Pávek's apology. He apologizes from 9:00 to 11:00 today for the hearing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u66	Thank you, I hope it's less emotional. Dear Member, the Czech Post is aware that only success in the field of commercial services will ensure its sustainability, and at present the Czech Post has a new strategy that does not depend on compensation from the state. On the other hand, the new compensation is already set to be appropriate. Regarding the delivery of newspapers Česká pošta picked 380 million for the distribution of newspapers in 2017. She didn't end this service. After several years when the price remained the same, the Czech Post demanded an increase in prices to cover the costs associated with the service. The negotiations for this change took place with the publishing houses throughout 2017 and the price changes that would cover the costs of this service were not accepted by the publishers and they chose a new distributor. [[15.40 hours]] The distribution of non-addressed consignments has long been faced with a very low price for distribution due to a very strong competitive environment and due to price adjustments at the beginning of 2019 there is a settlement. Over the period 1 to 9, this means January-September, the resulting price of the leaflet increased by 55 percent and the year-on-year decline in yield for this service for the same period is 18 percent, so it cannot be said that it is a liquidation of the service. Czech Post wants and must be a modern company whose services are of high quality and reflect customer requirements, but at the same time the Czech Post must look at the cost and efficiency of individual services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u67	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? It is not, so we will proceed further to the next interview that Mrs Dana Balcarová will bring to the Minister of Finance, Alena Schillerová, on the sale of the coal power plant Počerady. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the question relating to the sale of the largest Czech coal power plant Počerada. I was about to ask you about the last interpellation, and then you couldn't be here, so I'm asking you today. It seems at this point that the power plant will actually fall to Pavel Tykač at the end of 2019 according to the option agreement, for only CZK 2 billion. We know that in 2017 Mr. Tykač wanted to buy it from ČEZ for 10 billion. So I wanted to ask your opinion because I know that the Ministry of Finance is actually carrying out property supervision of the property in ČEZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u69	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, allow me, in particular, to respond on the basis of the information already publicly known and available today. After nearly ten years of negotiations and disputes, including the European Commission's 2013 investigation, ČEZ closed with Vrshanská uhelna, and. s., long-term contract for the supply of coal and, together with it, two option contracts for the sale of 100% of the shares of the Počerady power plant as of 2016 and 2024. In 2015, CEZ decided not to use the first option to sell the power plant. In 2017, Vršanská activated coal negotiations with ČEZ on the sale of the Počerady power plant outside the framework of the concluded contract. In view of the deterioration of the economic and legislative conditions in the field of coal power, ČEZ entered into negotiations, but the sale was not realized. The information that Vrshanská carbonná offered 10 billion is incorrect. The price was constructed from several components and time showed that the assumptions for the profitability of the power plant were far from fulfilled. According to the contract, ČEZ is now able to decide by 1 January 2020 whether or not to use the option to withdraw from the concluded sale agreement with effect from 2 January 2024, or to keep the power plant and to continue with it the long-term contract for the supply of 5 million tonnes of coal until the extinction of the Vršana quarry, which is expected to be around 2060. The alternative below means that CEZ would pay for the supply of 5 million tons of coal regardless of whether it would be taken away or not for decades. It can therefore be assumed that one of the least-quality ecological variants of brown coal would also be burned in the Czech Republic for the same period. In view of the tightening conditions for the production of electricity from coal, the profitability of the Počerady power plant decreases significantly over time. This is due in particular to the rising cost of CO2, the requirements for significant investments in environmental measures due to tightening legislation and last but not least to the high cost of restoring an almost existing plant. In view of the above, if it is not possible to pre-negotiate the contract for the supply of coal by the end of 2023 into a form that would bring greater value to ČEZ than the sale of the Počerady power plant, it is better for ČEZ not to continue in the contract for the supply of coal by 2060 and to sell the Počerady power plant. It must be borne in mind, however, that at that point, it will have had almost 50 years of continuous operation and may not be able to operate really anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u71	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see she is, so I'm going to ask the lady of the house to ask the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u72	If I understood it correctly, you evaluate that the sale of Počerad for 2 billion is advantageous for ČEZ, if I understood it correctly. And I wanted to ask if you still see it as Secretary of Finance, that it's advantageous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u73	I'm sure I didn't say anything like that, madam. I daren't say it. I'm not an expert. Of course, CEZ is majority, but not 100% owned by the state and exercises its shareholder rights there completely actively, but it is still in the competence of the institutions, and I dare not say, I told you in what horizon this might actually be considered, that this is not the only and clear alternative, that all the facts that I have evaluated must be put on the scales. So I will not dare to say in any way whether 2 billion is advantageous or disadvantageous because it will be dealt with in a particular time and must take into account all the facts that I have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u74	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová on Mrs Minister Marie Benešová on the case of the Fernandes twins.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I was approached by the desperate mother of Mrs Jarmila Baďurová Fernandes, who, thanks to the decisions of the Czech courts, got into a desperate life situation. Both the two daughters, the eight-year-old twins Laura and Lea, were handed over to the custody of a father who is not a citizen of the Czech Republic by decision of the court, in order to return minors to their normal place of residence in the city (?), United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. I intercede you, Madam Secretary, because the views of the representatives of the OSPOD as well as other follow-up psychological assessments have spoken contrary to that decision. Daughters with their mother lived in the Czech Republic for almost three years, where they also started compulsory schooling. The whole final separation and return to the care of the father was under very stressful conditions not only for the daughters and family themselves, but also participants in the visited primary school, when they were literally removed from teaching at school, and their further stay was not learned until more than thirty hours when the daughters were already outside the territory of the Czech Republic. Madam Secretary, after detailed examination of all available documents on this case, I cannot believe that the Czech judiciary would be able to make such decisions. I am not afraid to say that some might even call it a judicial crime that has been committed against minors without the possibility of any defence. How many Czech children will have to end irreversibly outside the borders of our state before the courts decide in the interests of the Czech Republic? I am therefore asking you to review this particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u76	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková, with an interview to the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, on the matter of proceedings in the case of a special situation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Czech Justice has informed the Czech Republic that the Czech Republic is preparing for a situation in which a wave of immigrants of excessive scale would target the territory and introduce a completely new institute of management in the event of a special situation. The Institute would always be activated only by a government regulation and supplemented by other instruments such as the re-establishing of border controls or a crisis plan for a large-scale migration wave. It would concern both illegally incoming foreigners and those who would go to other countries. This results from the proposed amendment to the asylum law. The introduction of this new institute is the completion of one of the national security audit tasks of 2016 which defined the need to implement sufficiently effective international protection management. In this respect, please answer the following questions. Is the introduction of a management institute in the event of a special situation responding to the 2015 immigration wave from Africa and Asia and its reason for introducing a concern that we are facing an increased number of incoming illegal migrants? What exactly would that mean for your resort? The activation of this procedure in the event of a specific situation would undoubtedly have implications for the state budget and would burden individual departments. Can you explain to me, Minister, how much it would weigh on the Ministry of the Interior and what kind of burden it would impose on your department in personnel terms, now that we're dealing with a lack of police officers? What crisis mechanisms would be activated in the event of such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u78	Thank you. I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u79	Mr Vice-President, Madam, I want to start by reassureing everyone that the migration and asylum situation in the Czech Republic is stable, but, of course, we are following very carefully developments in the source and transit countries, and there is no stable situation. The situation in eastern Ukraine, Turkey or the western Balkan route may be indicated. The current legislation, which is in force, does not provide for an adequate response to a possible crisis situation where the Czech Republic could be exposed to a strong migration pressure from more foreigners from third countries, some of which would apply for international protection in the Czech Republic. It is precisely to address this possible exceptional situation that the introduction of a new management institute is proposed in the case of a special situation, and, as you rightly said, we also respond to the national security audit of 2016. What is it, then? It is a novelty already contained in the amendment to the Asylum Act, and it is actually a super-accelerated asylum procedure in the event of a migration crisis. And I want to make it very clear that the Czech Republic has a very restrictive asylum policy, and if I was talking about numbers in that last reply, of the 1,700 applications that have been applied, we have only granted a little over 40, so that is not the way to give more asylum. Those conditions are still the same. It's a way to speed up this management so that in some crisis situation it can be resolved as quickly as possible, specifically within 30 days. And I say again, who has no right, so the asylum is rejected and returned to the country of origin. It's an institute that's going to be so-called sleeping, that is. it would only be activated if the government decided to launch it. It allows to require increased deployment of all relevant elements such as Homeland, Courts, Police. And it's simply based on simplifying the relatively long asylum process. So now I'm not able to tell you how much it costs, what the cost is. From my point of view, it's a thing that's like a fire insurance policy: we all believe we won't need it, but we're all insured. And if we have a reserve in the law, we're filling it out. So I want to assure you that this is nothing that goes against the interests of the Czech Republic, or vice versa. It is the next step towards increasing our state's ability to be prepared for the worst option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u80	Thank you. There's an interest in the supplementary question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, the explanatory memorandum to Sections 75 and 75a states: In this case, the crisis mechanisms that are prepared for this hypothetical situation would be activated. Specifically, it would be possible for example. on a situation where the Government of the Czech Republic would decide to re-establish internal border controls due to migration pressure and, in this context, it would probably also decide to activate this provision. I wonder how the police could do that, because we're short of cops. And do you really think these people would come across the internal border? Would it be considered that there would be a border fence, such as in Hungary? How would that work?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u82	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u83	These people would come across the internal border because the terminology means the internal border of the European Union. And we have no external border of the European Union, we have the Member States of the Union around us, so that is what this is meant. As far as the ability to ensure border control is concerned, we are ready for this. Police regularly train preparation for the re-establishing of border controls. By the way, November 4th will be a big exercise in North Moravia, so if you have a trip, we're ready to show you how the police are ready to secure border control. It's not just a job for the police. Those plans, which are regularly updated, assume the involvement of police, customs, judicial guards, and possibly. Army. So yes, the Czech Republic is prepared for such an alternative. Of course, it would require certain funds, but when it comes to security, it is the government's duty to ensure security at the expense of increased costs. So I want to assure you, we're ready for this, no matter how much I don't think it's going to happen anytime soon. But like I said before, it's good to be ready for anything and it's good to be insured. Whoever is insured is not surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u84	Next in line is Mrs Tereza Hyťhová with an interview with Minister Adam Vojtěch on air rescue services in the Liberec Region. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u85	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear absent minister, our paramedics have turned to me. Air rescue services in the Liberec Region are in danger of ensuring that people in the pod are not rappelled or saved. They say they'd do it to the bases in other parts of the country. In the Liberec Region also overlaps the availability of special rescue work with rope techniques, helicopters of air rescue services from Hradec Králové, Ústí nad Labem or from Prague. The country and the paramedics are worried that saving people will last longer. People who need the help of a helicopter and specially trained crew may experience situations that people will wait tens of minutes longer to rescue. The Ministry also stated that because of the fact that special rescue work with rope techniques will only be carried out by selected sites, their maximum professionalization will be achieved and the quality and safety of this service will be improved. According to the Ministry, the concerns the paramedics have are unwarranted. I would like to ask the Minister what particular reasons he wants to limit the work of rescue workers in the Liberec Region, who are specially trained and saving people's lives. And how can he guarantee that for example. complicated interventions in the Giant Mountains or in the Jizera Mountains will not have a significantly longer time delay. It's our paramedics who care. Thank you so much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u86	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. Next is Mr. Pavel Růžička, interpelation to the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar on the merger of the Military Forests with the Forests of the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u87	Dear Minister, is it true that preparatory work is under way to merge the Military Forests and Goods with the Forests of the Czech Republic? Given the specific conditions in the military training areas used by the Army of the Czech Republic and where military forests and farms are managed, I think, if that is true, that is not a good solution. If the merger of these organisations is planned, please communicate on the basis of which order and at what date. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u88	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. The next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová on the Prime Minister's grant adventure 2. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u89	Madam Secretary, ten years ago, a small company received a subsidy of 10,6 million. CZK intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. Three years after the payment, the withdrawal procedure was initiated on the ground that the applicant provided false information in the declaration of honour. The statement did not contain information that the company was part of the holding. If the story reminds you of anything, it's not a coincidence, of course, but it's not about the Chapi Nest case. The company in question is called SFM Liberec and belongs to Syner holding. But that was kind of a turnoff. In 2014, the Ministry of Finance confirmed the procedure and legitimacy of the withdrawal of the subsidy. However, this decision was subsequently annulled by the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and, on the contrary, the regional council of the cohesion region, which paid the subsidy, was the culprit of the unduly paid subsidy. This view, however, was not identified by the courts that gave the advice for the truth. Most importantly, the European authorities did not pay the subsidy paid to the Czech Republic, given the procedure of the Minister of Finance Babiš it came from taxpayers' pockets. What's there to conclude? Probably that the Ministry of Finance defended the interests of private entities that did not provide true data in the grant application, while the interests of taxpayers who lost more than 10 million. The crowns, they have been passed away. Madam Secretary, I would like to hear from you whether the Ministry is taking steps to recover the unduly granted subsidies. After all, the previous finance minister was in conflict of interest on this issue, which you are not, and I hope that you will set a new and, in my opinion, a better and fairer course. I hope your answer will please me. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u90	I'll ask the Secretary of Finance for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The honourable Member, as specified in the preparation for interpelation, is a Sport Facility Management company which has requested a subsidy for small and medium-sized enterprises to build a multi-purpose sports track from the Infrastructure Construction and Tourism Support programme. This subsidy was granted by the Northeast Regional Council. As part of the application for a subsidy, the company claimed that it was a medium-sized enterprise. However, as part of the audit and subsequent administrative control, it was found that it was 100% owned by a large undertaking and belonged to Syner holding. 29. 10. 2012 Therefore, the Regional Council of the North East Cohesion Region's office imposed a payment notice on S group Sport Facility Management for a breach of budgetary discipline of CZK 10,582 708. 20. 1. 2012 Sports Facility Management filed an appeal against the payment notice of the Ministry of Finance - then it was the Ministry of Finance. That's seven. 2. 2014 for the truth of the Northeast Regional Council, i.e. that the levy is payable. Then 24. 2. 2014 Sport Facility Management submitted a breakdown to the decomp committee, which concluded that the regional council was responsible because it had at its disposal an extract from the Commercial Register, where it was clear that the company belonged to Syner. So she was supposed to reveal it by then. Although the company's ownership structure was clear from the excerpt from the Commercial Register, which was the mandatory annex to the application, the Regional Council of Northeast did not indicate any shortcomings in the registration of this check of 10 April 2008 in the formal and factual accuracy of the information provided in the application. So he judged it and didn't see the flaws. Despite the fact that the company did not meet the criteria, it was selected and a grant contract was concluded on 10 July 2008. The Regional Council of the Northeast stated that the project fulfilled all the prescribed requirements. In the Commission's view, it was not possible to qualify as unjustified use of funds provided from the provider's budget, in particular because the applicant would become the beneficiary only at the time of the signing of the contract, and only since then are obligations applicable to him and only since then can he break budgetary discipline. That's how it was judged at the time. I'm stating facts that we're familiar with. As a result, the Ministry of Finance stopped the payment notice for the levy and the procedure. That's what the decay committee assessed, that's common practice. It's named, it's judged, it's a team of experts, experts. I also have another decay committee there at the moment. Or possibly the same, but composed of other people. I assume that this was not really an isolated view of the Commission, but a consistent decision-making practice. And just so you know, every year, ministers are just signed under hundreds of similar decisions, up to a few dozen breakdown committees, which are usually composed of independent tax experts. There are often not only Ministry employees, there are legal experts from other areas. Subsequently, the Board of Appeal assessed the contribution for breach of budgetary discipline to the Regional Council, but this was rejected by the Supreme Administrative Court, which confirmed the abolition of the contribution which was assessed to the Board. So then the Board of Appeal then said, so the levy should be paid by the Regional Council, the Supreme Administrative Court said no, that's wrong. In general, we respect the view of the Supreme Administrative Court, because each case needs to be considered with regard to individual circumstances and the specific facts found. The breach of budgetary discipline is generally due to the error of the beneficiary's procedure or, on the contrary, to the failure to fulfil the obligation laid down in the grant contract. It is very problematic to induce a breach of budgetary discipline from a certain legal situation of the beneficiary regardless of whether it has received the subsidy or not. So it was quite a complex legal dispute about who was the one who broke the budgetary rules. Whether it's the one who received the subsidy or the regional council that granted it. And this dispute actually finally, and we have to respect it, it split up the Supreme Administrative Court. So basically, there were a number of experts involved in the proceedings, experts and, in particular, lawyers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u92	Thank you. The Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u93	Thank you for your answer. However, it is not clear to me from the answer, as the court said, that the applicant was in error, that he did not give the correct information. And somehow, the finance minister developed the company from returning the subsidy. So what's the status? The company was paid for and the money did not come from Europe. So they paid ten million taxpayers? Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u94	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u95	You can't say that. Taxpayers won't pay for that. Everyone always has more of those projects. I've already explained that in connection with other cases. There are always more projects than actually - because something is expected to fail to meet the conditions, so that it does not just happen that taxpayers will pay. This means that if a project falls out, it is replaced by another project so that the total allocation is met. So it can't be said that the taxpayers paid for it. It was a very complicated dispute. The Minister of Finance - and now it doesn't matter who the Minister of Finance is, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. The Minister of Finance decided on the basis - and this is in the file - of an expert assessment of the decay committee. That's why he sets up cases like this - I also have a decomp committee set up, although, of course, from other people than they were at the time. But I don't know, I didn't know these people, they were experts, lawyers from different fields of law, even outside the Treasury Department, and they assessed it. And on the basis of that decay committee, the minister decided. He simply decided essentially - of course he has the right to make a decision, I can make a choice other than what the decay committee says, but probably in most cases, I don't know, I didn't do any back-to-back analysis, in most cases he's gonna make recommendations from lawyers in this area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u96	Thank you. Let's move on to another interpellation. Before I give the floor to the Member, Mr Špičák votes with the replacement card number 15. And now, Mrs Aulická will intersect the absent Minister Maláčová on the case of the Fernandes twins. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I also intercede you on the same subject once again, concerning the desperate mother of Mrs Jarmila Baďurová Fernandes, who, thanks to the decisions of the Czech courts, has really come into this desperate life situation and both daughters, the eight-year-old twins Laura and Lea, were handed over by the court to the care of the father, who, as I mentioned earlier, is not a citizen of the Czech Republic, in order to return minors to their usual residence in How (?) in Great Britain. I also interpel you, Madam Secretary, because it was the view of the representatives of the OSPOD, but of course also of other professional institutes and opinions, that spoke contrary to those decisions. And I would like to ask you, or I would ask you, Madam Secretary, to examine other options for solving this serious case, where we are speaking through a judicial view of the situation of this family, which is desperately seeking help, which is still being denied from all sides of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u98	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. And now please Mr Kaňkovský, who will interpel Mr Vojtěch on the crisis of internal departments in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u99	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, dear absent Minister. Already in June 2017, an open letter was addressed by the Committee of the Czech Internship Society to the then Minister Ludvík, who pointed out the critical situation of internal departments including clinical workplaces across the Czech Republic. There were a number of facts in this letter that show how difficult the situation in internal medicine is in our country. Lack of qualified doctors, lack of nurses, problems with training young doctors and nurses, gradual closure of internal beds in contrast with their constantly increasing need, lack of follow-up beds, inoperative medical emergency system, etc. [[16.10 hours]] Two years have passed when you, Minister, run the health department, and the situation has not only improved, but, on the contrary, the internal department crisis is continuing to deepen. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what concrete measures you will take in this regard so that there is no situation that in some regions there will be no one to take care of internally ill patients. Unfortunately, this scenario may occur with further inactivity, and no one wants to imagine that. I don't want you to convince us once again that Czech health care works like clockwork. My point is to really present a real scenario of how you can help run internal departments. And it's not just about the money. In my opinion, it is necessary to prepare legislative and non-legislative steps so that some internal departments do not really collapse. Thank you in advance for your written answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u100	Thank you, too, so the Minister will answer you in writing. And now, please, Mrs Golasowská, who will interpel Mrs Maláčová on the results of the inspection at the Dignity Nýdek facility. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u101	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, in March of this year, you responded to my interview on inspections in O.P.S. Dignity in Nýdek, where the inspection in October 2018 found serious errors by the provider towards senior clients. I quote from your report: Firstly, the provider does not inform interested parties about all payments, conditions and obligations arising from the service contract. Secondly, the provider exceeds the maximum rate for providing the basic activity, that is accommodation. Thirdly, situations have been identified which may undermine the fundamental rights of clients in the area of the right to privacy and the right to the preservation of dignity. Fourth, the provider does not plan the course of the provision of the service according to personal objectives, does not keep individual records of the course of the provision of the social service and does not create records of the evaluation of the course of the provision of the social service. The providers were imposed measures to address the identified deficiencies in the deadlines from January to April 2019. I ask you, Madam Secretary, whether the O.P.S. has again been checked to see if the deficiencies have been resolved and, if not, what penalties have been taken against the equipment. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u102	Thank you, too. Yes, the Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Marian Jurečka, on the case of the feasibility study of the Danube-Odra-Labe channel to Minister Kremlík, should give another interview, but Mr Jurečka is not here, so this interpelation fails, as well as the interpellation of another Mr Jurečka. And Mr Kaňkovský withdrew his interpellation to Minister Vojtěch, so I ask Mrs Golasowská, who will again interpel Mrs Maláčová on the abolition of discounts on non-working spouses, and this is the last of today's interventions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u103	Madam Secretary, in the last few days, you have put forward a plan in which you want to cancel your tax discount on a non-working wife or husband. This is the amount of CZK 24 840 per year, which will cover around 76 000 people, with about CZK 2 billion. The crowns you want to use to pay for the upcoming backed-up maintenance. You say that - I quote: "They probably don't work because they can afford it. I don't think we should subsidize them with 25,000 crowns a year at tax discounts and provide them with luxurious allowance." Madam Secretary, do you realize that those who are at home and are not working may be caring and caring for their parents who fail to reach care and would be in an institution without their care, or taking care of children who have more or have children who are sick, but who also fail to reach the allowance? Next, for example. parents of talented children or parents who teach their children at home. Madam Secretary, this discount is one of the few national measures and it should not only be maintained, but the MPSV should think about how more to support families who are trying to work and raise children and not to throw sticks at them. Therefore, I would like to ask if the MPSV insists on abolishing this tax discount, what measures are being prepared to support spouses and parents who work and raise children. These are often families that, like single parents, live in poverty, even though they work, for example, at minimum wage, and do not reach any dose. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u104	Well, thank you, Madam Secretary will answer in writing again. That was, as I said last time, Mr Kaňkovský withdrew his further intervention. Thus, we have exhausted the programme of oral interventions, and before we move on to the next programme, i.e. to the annual reports of the Czech Television, which are included immediately, I would give five minutes to prepare the O.R. and to meet colleagues as well. So we'll continue at 16.20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-007-318.u105	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 16.30, so the time set for the break has passed. Before I open the next point, I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes to us from 16.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now point 247, which has been put on the agenda for this place.
