ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u1	1. Critical situation in the financing of social services in 2019 and its solutions I ask that the President of the KDU-ČSL party, Mr Marek, take the floor Výborný. And once again, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you to keep your voice down and start discussing this point. You may, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u2	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Probably all of us, as we sit here, have in our surroundings, in our families, in our neighbours, in our colleagues, friends of someone who is a client within the whole social services system in the Czech Republic. We certainly have seniors in our families who are, for example, clients of nursing homes. We often have people with disabilities in our neighborhood, autistics, today is the World Day of multiple sclerosis, people suffering from various diseases, often bedridden people who can't take care of themselves. One of the basic attributes of a modern state, a modern welfare state, is that it can take care of those who can't take care of themselves. And we are in the Czech Republic today in a situation where here, not today or tomorrow, but if nothing happens, and if the government keeps putting its head in the sand before the problem, there is a risk of a collapse of social services at the latest at the beginning of September. I don't paint hell on a wall, I shouldn't afford it, but I'm making it very clear and clear. If the government doesn't keep its promise - and I believe that I am also listened to by the chairman of the ANO movement, the government party... Too bad he didn't listen - so the promise fell here at the time when the state budget for 2019 was approved. I'm glad that Governor Vildumetzová is nodding her head in agreement, because it also applies to the regions. This concerns the Social Commission of the Regional Association, it concerns you, because the funds for social services since 2015, as we all know, go and are redistributed through individual regions. The edges here only function as a flow heater. They redistribute the funds to their social service intermediaries, continue to provide them to municipalities and, of course, also provide them to charities, diacons, hopes, and other nonprofit organizations that often substitute the role, and it's all right for the state. Since 2015, with the exception of last year, we have always witnessed a completely awkward situation in these weeks and months where the regions here, namely the non-profit sector, charities, diaconies, simply social service providers, come with open hands, begging, begging: vláda, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, please finance what you promised in 2015, because, yet, we all know that, it is not possible for the state to assume responsibility on the one hand, in this case the responsibility for financing social services, to the county and the municipalities, and at the same time say: but find the funds for it yourself. It's simply not possible to control this state. That is why, in the situation here - and we drew attention to it at the time of the adoption of the budget right after the New Year - in March of this year we placed an extraordinary point at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where we requested it, and there was a specific deadline, if I am not mistaken, on 20 April 2019, when we wanted a clear assurance from the government that the missing 2 billion to finance social services would actually be provided to the regions by other providers. The government, or the government coalition, rejected this resolution, voted out, approved such a rubber resolution as the need to address the problem, but without taking further action. And today we are in a situation where the end of May, and if the necessary funds of CZK 2 billion are not available to the regions by mid-June at the latest, the transfer, which must then follow through the meeting of regional councils, then also the municipal councils, will not be able to make the transfer so that individual organisations can finance the services to clients. Again, they are services for mothers in shelters, they are services to handicapped, autistic, elderly, those who are often confined to beds at home and save money for the state, because of course home care is significantly cheaper than care in residential facilities. [[15.40 hours]] And what did we get? The two ministers of this government, Minister Maláčová and Secretary Schillerová, are playing ping-pong here, constantly throwing hot potatoes from each other. Sometimes it feels like we're in a market somewhere where we're fighting about who's responsible. Well, by the way, I'm asking what the one who's supposed to be running the government is doing, because he's the Prime Minister. I'm afraid I don't see the Prime Minister here. But personally, I would think that the Prime Minister is in a situation where two subordinates, in this case two ministers, are unable to negotiate, so he has a clear intervention and this situation needs to be addressed. We drew attention to this and witnessed again last week that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs says A and the Ministry of Finance says B. So we say absolutely clearly - we cannot proceed further in this way, not only can we leave the providers but also their employees in this absolute uncertainty. I want to point out that we're talking about about about a million clients and their family members, but we're also talking about thousands of employees of social services providers, whether they're off-road or in residential facilities. They're often people who work, they're on the edge of their options, they have children at home, they're living families, and we're in this way, we're in the state, and we're in the government's position at this point, and we're talking about a marginal amount of $2 billion. Look at what the government has found funding for the past six months, various promises from A to B, that's all it was. But the 2 billion crowns that belong to the providers were not found. So it is not possible to extend this uncertainty here any longer, it is not possible to prolong this instability here, because - and those reports from the field are absolutely clear - e.g. The Silesian Diaconia already has a plan to lay off its employees and some of them had to say goodbye, unfortunately, because of course the certainty is lacking here. And if the funds aren't there, there is really a threat that the entire social services system in the Czech Republic will be disrupted. So I call on the government, I call on Minister Maláčová and Minister Schillerová - let us stop playing a political struggle here. This isn't about political points at all. This is about making sure that those who deserve it and those who need to be taken care of don't take care of themselves. It's not possible to sin that the people of these beds just won't get up and whistle under your windows, they won't go to the Strakův before the Straka Academy. Maybe it's also because they don't go to the ballot boxes. But we, KDU-ČSL, clearly reject that. That is why we initiated - and I would also like to thank other parties, ODS, Pirates, Mayors and Independent and TOP 09 for joining our challenge and for having been able to convene this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And all we want is for the Prime Minister or Secretary Schillerová to appear here, respectively. Minister Maláčová, and they made it clear how and not the general commitment that the government will discuss this at an extraordinary meeting, do so at 3:00 a.m., but we want a clear commitment and we want to hear from where the government will get the 2 billion crowns to finance social services by 15 June at the latest. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Let me remind you one more thing, I would say no less important, and that is the question of social work. That's where we move in completely different numbers. Last year's social work was financed by the government for 400 million, this year's budget was reduced to 200 million, and suddenly we -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u3	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you. I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down, because I can't hear what President Marek here says. If you don't mind, I don't mind. I think that this is quite a very serious and important subject and we should pay due attention to it. If we want to have other debates, let's lead them outside. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. I'll go back to the social services so there'll be clear numbers. The initial requirement of regions to finance social services this year was CZK 20 billion. It must be said that we are not just talking about the salaries of social services workers. These social services also need to be developed, compensatory aids need to be purchased, positioning beds need to be purchased, and at this point the individual organizations and institutions are not dealing with this, because they simply do not have it. At this point, they're already in some kind of emergency mode, and they're mainly dealing with how they can fund the workforce, those women and men who work in social services. That would be a debate on the second, third, fourth, that it is also necessary to ensure the best possible conditions for the performance of social work, that it is indeed necessary to provide the best for those people as well. They don't have that kind of equipment these days. In the finals, the demand from the regions was CZK 17,12 billion. In the state budget, the government approved 15.72 billion in December, the regions actually received only CZK 15.12 billion. So it was the result. It should also be stressed and recalled that, at the same time or in parallel - I think it was in one week, the Prime Minister would know exactly - the government approved an increase from 5 to 7 percent, and that is fine because those people, those social services workers, really deserve it. But the government raised the tables, increased the social supplement, or a special supplement, but didn't say B-- here's the money. And that was the commitment and the promise made here publicly that the government would ensure that, in the course of 2019, these funds would actually arrive at those providers. Well, to this day, the $2 billion isn't. So I'm asking you, what's the problem? Does Secretary Schillerová have them behind a pot somewhere in the Treasury Department? In the hallway? I've heard that sometimes they find each other out there. Or is my secretary Maláčová? Where? Maybe in the basement at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs? All right, ladies, please make a deal. If you don't make it, let the Prime Minister handle it. He often says he can do this and he works, so I believe he stops being funny here. Indeed, the 2 billion needs to be settled for the financing of social services by mid-June. And now the last thing, and I'll be very brief. It is a question of social work, because there is a much lower amount, CZK 200 million. Worse, Minister Maláčová has already signaled that for next year, ladies and gentlemen, that will be zero. Zero crowns! So the built-up social work system, which saves state resources again in the finals, the state bills, because these people go out in the field, they work with these people, and they save money, which is then paid to those people, clients. So if you've decided to completely dismantle social work in the municipalities, then I applaud you. But that is deeply, deeply irresponsible. So I believe that not only social services, but the social work system will be taken seriously by the government. Finally, let me just read the resolution that we will propose at the end of this meeting: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Instructs the Government to submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for the financing of social services for 2019 amounting to CZK 2 billion by 15 June 2019. 2. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 31 July 2019, a proposal for financial allocation for subsidies for social services for 2020. This is for one simple reason - we really do not want to spend unnecessary time here in a year, we want to pursue the necessary laws for the benefit of the citizens of this country, and not spend time here with awkward squabbling, where the government will finance services in 2020. [[15.50 hours]] 3. We call on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit to the Committee on Social Policy the substantive intention of the Government amendment to the Social Services Act by 25 June 2019. Following its discussion in the Committee on Social Policy, the MPSV imposes a round table with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, representatives of social services providers to the long-term - and I now stress this - to the long-term and predictable financing of social services in the Czech Republic in the following years. The next items of the resolution will be read in the course of the debate by Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for supporting the agenda for this meeting. Of course, we appreciate that. And I believe that the meeting will not be long and that, after the two Madames speaking, it will be clear that our challenge has actually fallen on fertile ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you to take over the rapporteur for this press. And I'm gonna ask the secretary who asked for a performance with priority rights. I'll read the apologies before the secretary takes the floor. Mr Daniel Pawlas apologizes on the day from the afternoon meeting to 19 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík today from 15.30 to 16.30 for working reasons; for personal reasons, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologises from 14 to 16 o'clock. In addition, Mr Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister and Prime Minister, today from 15.30 to the end of the day, for working reasons and Mr Jiří Bláha, on 29. 5. from 15.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on this issue of financing and, in general, the future of social services in the Czech Republic. The financing of social services is therefore a problem that is solved almost every summer. In the last few years, it was the only exception last year because a record amount was poured in the State Budget at the end of 2017 for the State Budget 2018. Otherwise, it is a problem that is really solved every year. In this context, I would like to remind you that I have managed to negotiate a record-high budget of CZK 15,7 billion as the emerging Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The social services budget has not yet been this high. One of the first decisions I made after taking up office was also the relocation of CZK 1.5 billion from the Employment Operational Programme and in the spring of this year the European Commission approved this relocation. Nevertheless, I agree with the claim that there is a financial downturn and that there is a need to finance funding for social services. I would also like to point out that, when drawing up the budget, we have already pointed out that if all the demands of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are not met, social services will have to be financed in the course of 2019. The reason is clear. In particular, wages and salaries were increased. The second reason is the failure and termination of projects, so-called individual projects from the Employment Operational Programme for this financing and, of course, the growing need and demand for the capacity of social services. I would like to point out that there has been a considerable stabilization of social services in general in recent years. But now we are turning back the crisis again, especially as I have already mentioned, because of the increased wages, salaries and the failure of European projects. I've often been asked how this is possible. Where the money is. And I point out that high-quality social policy is not a cheap issue. Social services are constantly developing and modernising. Currently we are on a total of 5 694 service providers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u7	I understand. So once again, my dear colleagues, my fellow colleagues, I ask for peace of mind in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. We are currently on a total of 5 694 social service providers and in 2007 started at 3 497 when the Social Services Act was established in 2008. This is therefore an increase of 2,197 providers. Also, the number of clients who need help is increasing. At present, the social services are served by 257 thousand clients. In 2017, the flow of workers to the commercial sector, in particular social workers, and to business chains, especially carers, stopped. The salaries and salaries in social services have increased by around 35 percent over the last four years, which is the largest item in general in social services subsidies and accounts for three quarters of the total volume. Just to give you an idea, a specific example. In 2011, a social worker for people who were mentally disabled took CZK 18,000 rude for demanding work, where he cares for up to 50 clients, has a higher professional education, sometimes university. Today, after an increase in salaries, he takes CZK 29,000. That means 11,000 crowns more gross. Are you trying to tell me that these people are something to be envious of? And that he doesn't deserve a raise? Another reason for the ever-increasing volume is rising energy prices, which we all know from everyday life, and general overhead costs. But we also improved capacity and quality. Today thanks, especially, to projects from the Operational Programme Employment clients do not lie in ten-bed rooms and I think that is good. In addition, it is necessary to expect for the future that the requirements for the volume of funds in social services will grow. Just to refresh us, I remind you that today we have a share of people over 65 years of age in the total population of 18 percent. In 2030 - and I warn you that this number seems distant, but it is 11 years away - there will be a quarter of the population, and in 2050 we will have a third of the population over 65 and in 2050 every tenth citizen of the Czech Republic will be 55 years older. In this context, I am particularly pleased, in quotation marks, about what interest the right-wing opposition, which tragically underestimated this area when it was in the government, is suddenly getting on the subject. When we took over the government, the state put CZK 7.7 billion in social services - and now listen - in 2014. Today we have CZK 15,7 billion. 104 percent more. We have a system solution in the form of an amendment to the law, but now we have to resolve the current situation. I'm very well aware of that. I will present the exits for the amendment to the Social Services Act in the week from 10 June. Then we will discuss with all the important actors, that is, with the representatives of the founders, with the representatives of providers, clients, as well as employees and, in particular, with the political representation. For your information, on Sunday I was invited to the meeting of Mr. President's expert team in Lán and I expect that the amendment to the Social Services Act and, above all, the question of hospice care will be one of the hottest topics. I have discussed with you honourable Members in the first... already on the Social Committee on 2 May. Next week I have an informal meeting with the senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I have an appointment with the regions, especially with the authorities, at the meeting on 11 June. More important, and I realize that, there will be a meeting with their subordinates, the regional councillors for social issues. However, I also intend to discuss with the municipalities, with the disabled. We are already very much communicating with Mr. Chairman Krása of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, with the Association of Social Services Providers and also last but not least with the Union of Health and Social Welfare. But let's take another look at the whole funding problem and the possible solution, because that's what we're here to solve the problem. The deficit for 2019 and how it came to be. Last week, 23 May, I discussed with the Social Commission of the Association of Regions in the Zlín Region, where the meeting took place in Velehrad. We agreed that the sum of CZK 2 billion needs to be financed, we have a consensus on that, and I will be happy to uncover or break down how this amount was created. [[16.00 hours]] The first amount is CZK 380 million to finance the remaining 2% to increase salaries. The Ministry of Finance only reflected an increase of 5% in the draft State Budget for 2019. Then I managed to negotiate an increase of 7 percent and the government decided so, but this 2% was not covered. Another sum, CZK 639 million, to cover the increase in the special currency surcharges, which the Prime Minister's directive decided last year at the last government meeting just before Christmas in order to stabilise health care. Furthermore, it is a blackout of approximately CZK 900 million under the Employment Programme, which I have already mentioned, and although I decided to make an additional allocation of CZK 1.5 billion in the autumn of last year, the European Commission approved this relocation in the spring of this year. According to the statements of representatives of the Association of Regions, the preparation of these individual projects is time-consuming and therefore it is necessary to cover these funds from the state budget. The last of the remaining 81 million crowns constitute a deficit for optimal financing of social services with over-regional or state activity. I guess I don't need to remind you that these are services that relate, for example, to the problems of autism or people with multiple sclerosis when we have that important international day today. In the event of underfinancing - what will be the consequences? One third of the services will be forced to release up to half the employees. When we convert it into full-time jobs, it's 10,000 translated posts of qualified personnel. These people will end up applying for employment and receive unemployment benefits, which means that there will be a further burden on the state budget. Between 2017 and 2018 - and I have already mentioned this - there has finally been a stabilization of the sector. Now, once again, there is a threat of disintegration. There is a risk that these people will permanently leave the area of social services, which I personally consider to be an extremely undesirable situation. You probably know that, in the next 15 years, we will need twice the capacity of social services workers because of demographic developments, and that will not be possible if these people are not properly staffed and are not confident and predictable about the financing of social services. Furthermore, there will be a reduction in the capacity of social services, which will result in social exclusion of population groups, and the solution to this problem will be much more costly for the state than the financing of social services of 2 billion. And that is actually the fundamental problem with today's debate, that we actually have to, if we want the area of social services and assistance most needed to be stabilized, find the 2 billion so as not to threaten the exodus of personnel and not to harm those who depend on social services, and they are the most vulnerable members of our society. So let's get to the question of how to solve this problem. I personally believe that this is not just a matter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As an example, I will mention the recent financing of second-class and third-class roads, when a solution was found at the level of almost the entire government, when the President of the Regional Association, the Minister concerned, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister sat down together and found a solution. And I'm gonna do my best to make it happen in the next few days, and we've solved the problem together. I often hear that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is supposed to find those 2 billion in its budget. I would like to point out here that 94 per cent of the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is dictatorial expenditure. Let me remind you that over the last five years, we have managed to increase the social services budget by 104 percent, that I have moved CZK 1.5 billion in the OPZ, and these funds from European funds would go to much less meaningful things. I also remind you that within my budget chapter, I have found an additional CZK 200 million for municipalities to finance community service, because I think that all the people who can work should. And I know how worried the mayors are about it. We are also looking for 200 additional million to finance subsidies for social work in municipalities. I have also heard that I have six free billion in my budget under Chapter 313. I say that - I've said that in the last few days too - that's not true. If I had an additional $6 billion, believe me, I wouldn't have gone through the entire rounds of parental allowance negotiations in the last few months. Our chapter 313 shows total unused expenditure of CZK 6.16 billion, of which CZK 5.25 billion has a clear determination. The largest volume of profiling unused expenditure is CZK 2.8 billion in European operational programmes. These are funds for already approved and implemented projects. The MPSV and our Operational Programme Employment is best in drawing and this year the drawdown of European funds will peak. I'd hate to put this drawing at risk. CZK 1.95 billion is allocated to investment programs. These funds are allocated to specific registered investment actions such as reconstruction and construction of senior homes in regions, or also for the functioning of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the future will be a strategically important transition to new IT systems. You know we have to meet this goal by 31. 12. 2020 so that we don't depend on one supplier and have an IT system that corresponds to the 21st century. For your information, this year we received a total of CZK 0.0 from the state budget for investment in IT. Another CZK 460 million goes to wages. 85 percent of this is for the salaries of people working on European projects, which therefore cannot be used for anything else. Then we still have around a billion crowns to simplify, of which 100 million are for the operation of the employment offices where it is necessary to finance, and 50 million crowns to stabilise the medical assessment service. These are the funds that were approved under the amendment of the relevant law on 19 December last year. The remaining funds will be used to finance the needs of the resort, including the social work mentioned above, the subsidies to municipalities for social and legal protection of children and the public works already mentioned. These relocations were either approved at the moment, or will be judged by the Ministry of Finance. Let me also mention that, for example, only CZK 1.9 billion will be needed for the third and fourth degree care allowance approved by the House in December last year, and the state budget for this year did not count on this amount. I also often hear that I should raise the payment order. I would also like to explain why I am not going to do this, and I think it is countersystemic. I do not agree with the increase in the so-called payment order. It's just another way to pass on additional costs to seniors and disabled people. Moreover, it is only a tenth of the clients and the total volume that would be solved by increasing the payment order is CZK 8 million. I guess we agree it's a drop in the sea. Our own resort investigation concerning the real amount of payments levied for meals and accommodation at residence facilities has shown that for disabled persons more than 57 percent of clients are unable to pay the maximum amount from the payment order. It's 21 percent at senior homes. Homes with a special regime are 29 percent. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there is no reason to further increase this maximum in this situation where a large part of the organisations are unable to collect the current maximum payment. Moreover, in the event that clients cannot pay the amount, the facility will pay it, thereby increasing the pressure on the region for financing again. To sum up, I repeat that the financing needs to be addressed at the level of the entire government. I'll do my best. We are already negotiating with the Minister of Finance. At the last extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in March this year, when the issue was being addressed, we immediately began to communicate with government colleagues about this situation. I strongly hope, as I have mentioned several times, that in the order of a few days we will be able to find a solution together. [[16.10 hours]] One more time to the amendment to the Social Services Act. I've often been asked what it will contain. Briefly. Given the demographic development of exponential growth in social services costs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently planning to ensure the stability and predictability of social services. We want funding to be sustainable and multiannual. We want to secure multi-source funding in line with the Government's programming declaration. We want to secure the money for capacity building. You know it's gonna be a big deal. This year we managed to negotiate 450 million for the construction of senior homes, but the overall annual requirements are many times higher. Only this year we have four billion crowns required, which means eight times. But I also realize that it is very important for the founders and providers to give administrative relief and relief. So it will be another element of the amendment to the Social Services Act. As I mentioned, the presentation of the starting points, the standard procedure that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is proceeding, will be presented from 10 June this year. Then there will be a series of round tables and negotiations with those already mentioned players. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Association of Regions are in agreement on a specific amount of CZK 2 billion. In this sense, we have fulfilled the call of the Chamber of Deputies of March of this year. At the 27th meeting on 27 March, I was also invited to do several other tasks: to submit an analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing social services and to submit in the autumn of this year after consulting the Association of Regions of the Amendment to the Social Services Act. As I mentioned in the previous speech, we are currently finishing the amendment, preparing its thorough discussion with all the actors involved in the social services issue. Part of these so-called bases will include a thorough analysis of the current model of funding for social services that will be provided to you. As I mentioned, a fair system for financing social services will be set up in the amendment. I also hope that we will find a consensus for the amendment together, and in the coming years we will no longer have to deal with this situation, as it is every year in the summer, as it is customary. As far as the funding points are concerned, I assume that we will find a common solution at government level in the coming days. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Minister Jana Maláčová, and I am opening the debate. [[Secretary Schiller is reporting for priority rights.]] Priority rights, Madam Secretary, are exhausted. So, of course, I'll put you on the priority list. Mr Fiala will give the first priority, then the President of the Club Rozvoral, who represents the President of the House of Deputies, then Mr Stanjura as President of the ODS, then Mr Rakušan, then the President of Bartošek Club and then the Minister of Finance. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Democratic Party is a co-designator of this extraordinary meeting. I'm very brief - I'm actually going to simplify it. Madam Secretary here has complicated things as much as she has. I'm going to simplify what's really going on here, and I'm going to propose a very simple solution and a way out for the government. But I'll start with something that doesn't seem to have anything to do with politics. About two weeks ago, in New York, an unnamed collector of the statue of American creator Jeff Koons, called the Rabbit, auction. The statue's barely three feet tall. And the statue was auction off by the unknown unnamed collector for $91.1 million, which is over CZK 2 billion. And we're here today for 2 billion crowns. And of course I'll agree with you. Two billion crowns for a statue is a really crazy amount. Crazy amount. But in our state budget, which had income of 1,400 billion last year, even more, so in this state budget it's one-seventh of one-hundredth of the state budget revenue for last year. One-seventh of one hundredth! And for whom is this, or is it intended, this one seventh of one hundredth of the state budget? We're not talking about an upgrade package. We're not talking about an election present. We're not even talking about $6 billion here, i.e. triple the fare for pensioners, and for those who could pay for it themselves, to whom God serves health, they're active. We wish them well. We're not even talking about this amount. We are only talking about one-seventh of one hundredth of the state budget, which is missing at the moment and which is intended for the most vulnerable, most vulnerable, most vulnerable, most tested fate. And this $2 billion is missing because apparently the government had been missing out on some premeditated promise that the government had made somewhere, so she just took the $2 billion because she didn't think anyone would notice. But that's not how it works, ladies and gentlemen. And this extraordinary meeting that we've convened, it's really not a matter of opinion. It shouldn't really be a matter of discussion. This isn't about any ideology at all. Maybe not even politics. Actually, we're not even here for a material dispute. This extraordinary meeting is actually a form of coercion. Yes, I admit it, I'm being clear. It is a form of pressure on the government to quickly find one-seventh of one hundredth of the state budget and send it to those who need it most and who deserve it. To social services, that is, to those who serve the weakest, the poorest and the most needy. That's why I'd like to ask -- and it'll be enough for us, I'll say it for the ODS, it'll be enough -- one word, one half of any member of the government who promises to find this money. And then it was like nothing happened. Like nothing happened, we don't have to have any more fun here. Unfortunately, it has already happened that the government has not found the money itself, which in itself is embarrassing. But please tell me that the government will find that one-seventh of one hundredth of the state budget revenue, quickly find that it will send them somewhere, and we will end it. It's that simple!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u11	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Mr. Speaker Rozvoral from the SPD will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, we are gathered at another demonstration and promotional emergency meeting. Because it is extremely absurd and ridiculous when a group has been terrified of the state of social services, which has been involved in the liquidation of the Czech economy for decades, the gangs that have spent billions of state property and billions of municipal and urban property. Social services serve socially weak people. And we legislators and government should be primarily concerned about not having any socially weak ones, or as little as possible. In practice, this means that the State and municipalities should have money for decent pensions for the elderly and for those who cannot take care of themselves for health or other objective reasons. The state and municipalities should also have decent housing for all the needy, for helpless seniors, for families with children, but also for young people who have not yet been able to save up for their housing and have no commercial rent. Since 1989, what have the old gangs that have ruled here so far done for this? They did their utmost to keep the state's income from state property from social aid. They have done their utmost in municipalities and cities to sell the municipal property, to rid the municipalities of the possibility of providing both social housing and any social assistance. There was a time when the so-called "right" in the House and in the media were babbling about the pensioners eating through the state budget. The monstrosity and impertinence of those who had this country robbed, and by that they begging people, it really doesn't have any boundaries. The government of the People's and Social Democrats laid the foundations of a private executive business, paved the way for the source of an incredible loan shark mafia, which has often wasted and deprived hundreds of thousands of people, families with children and pensioners. [[16.20 hours]] None of the previous governments are effectively addressing the problem of debt traps. Chef Pohlreich says the kitchen is recognized by the worst dish. The same is true of the state and its service to citizens. Whoever's on the street, who doesn't have the rent and the food, doesn't give a shit what GDP is and what highway you build, and it doesn't matter how many billions you put in social services when he doesn't have the dignity to live. Not only because he is sick or in a debt trap, but also because he works for a small wage from which you simply can't support your family even if you don't have debts. People need not only better social services, but first of all people also need enforceable justice, well-paid work and decent pensions. People didn't just get into debt traps by greedy lawyers and bailiffs. Execution for usury fines, deeds and judgments was approved by the courts, i.e. a state that will steal a fifth of these executions under VAT as its own interest in usury, and thus directly participate in the begging of the weakest. Dear colleagues, you're scaring that there's no money for employees' salaries in social services. I wonder who's involved in the fact that they were and are so small. Every government had a chance to raise those salaries, every government had a chance to reduce bureaucracy, to save in the budget or to stop funding unnecessary stupidities. It has not been so long since our chairman Tomio Okamura said that Germany owes us more than ten thousand billion crowns in war reparations. This debt has never been denied by Germany, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also been more or less reluctant and reluctant to interpel, but he has nevertheless confirmed that the debt is inexhaustible and that it is only a political will to want or not to want money. And our governments do not want money from Germany for more than 20 years, and I note that from all the countries that are reporting to Germany today, the claim of the Czech Republic is absolutely transparent and absolutely indisputable. I will remind you that if the government were to recover this debt, every citizen could receive at least one million crowns. Poland and Greece have already opened the question of reparation. To those questioning this amount, I remind you that it is the amount converted into today's value plus the minimum interest for about 80 years that the Němec have built up for their prosperity for our money. For the fans of landmanshaft in this House, I will recall the basic facts. Germany's debt has never been challenged by the Czech-German Declaration - it is only a declaration, not a treaty - and Chancellor Kohl immediately after signing the contract at the press conference assured your friends from the Landsmanšaft that it does not concern property. Secondly, all reparations agreements explicitly exclude the property seized by Němec and collaborators from the reparations. Nor will the argument that debt recovery upset our relationships will stand. And, of course, I will recall again the fact that Germany, without protests in 2010, paid the last part of the World War I reparations into the hands of private investors who purchased the claims. If you are concerned about making money for our socially weak and for our citizens, make them, government, joy, and take out the ten thousand billion crowns that belong to us from Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, let us commit the government to analyse the real amount of our claims against Germany to date, and let us commit the government to calling on the German Government to fulfil its obligations under post-war agreements. After all, it is absolutely amoral for the German government to finance, for example, Arab immigrants from our money and to give them twice as much of our money as we are able to pay people who care about the socially weak, let alone have the money to provide socially weak people with a decent life without begging. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr Rozvoral. Mr. ODS Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura will now perform. A colleague of Rakušan will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. I think some of the performances inspired me in notes, some of the evenings didn't. I would first like to focus on what the Minister said here in her long speech. I've heard about 30 times - I've done, I've delivered, I've arranged, I don't have 6 billion, I've put 400 million there, there or there. I want to tell the Minister that it's taxpayers' money and not yours. First of all. But in that speech, I lacked the word I wanted to address in my speech during the discussion on this point - and I expected to hear many times in that speech by the Minister - and that word is a person, a citizen, a client of social services, choose. I would like to quote paragraph 2 (2) of the Social Services Act, which, by the way, has been in force since 2006, this text, so it is not new. That means he's been paying for 13 years. If you were looking for the money some other time, I'd appreciate it. [[He's turning behind himself to a government bench where the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance are speaking.]] I'm going back to quoting the Social Services Act. The scope and form of assistance provided through social services must preserve the human dignity of persons. [[Once again, they turn to the government bench, where both ministers still speak to each other. Secretary of Finance off the microphone: I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.]] Yes, the Vice-President didn't give me any peace. But it doesn't matter. I really consider this a key message, the speech, the section of the Social Services Act. So once again, let me read that one paragraph together: The scope and form of assistance and support provided through social services must preserve the human dignity of persons. Assistance must be based on individually identified needs of persons, must affect persons actively, promote their autonomy, motivate them to do activities that do not lead to long-term maintenance or deepening of an adverse social situation, and strengthen their social inclusion. Social services must be provided in the interests of persons and in the proper quality in such a way that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons is always consistently ensured. - And for that, a person, a fellow citizen, a person who needs the help of others, can add an official word or word from the legislation of persons. According to this law, which was approved by our predecessors in 2006, it is the duty of every social service to work in sufficient quality, which will mean the greatest possible dignity, humanity, privacy, the possibility of self-relationship, simply the human approach system. That, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, I have heard absolutely nothing about your original performance, and I am sorry. I think - and President Fiala described it well - that arguing and finding two billion is not the main problem. It's an up-to-date problem that can be solved quite quickly. There's probably gonna be a fight inside the government that eventually announces the good news that he found the money. It is much more important that we, as legislators and at the same time the government, as a power executive, ensure that this law is implemented. This means a sufficient service to respect dignity, privacy, the motivation to become independent, and so forth. I will not entirely agree with Mr. Chairman Výborný. According to my information, people who are receiving social services today or who are receiving social services are about half a million, and these services are provided by some 5.5 thousand contributory organizations. Some of these people are reported, they're reported repeatedly... [[A note from the diaper.]] Yeah, I understand that. I didn't notice that. There are about 5.5,000 organizations involved. According to our information, the moderate majority of the non-profit sector, about 45 percent of the contribution organisations and a small amount of them are normal business companies. And if the State has a legal obligation to provide this service, it has to create conditions. Conditions for those who need those services and at the same time conditions for those who provide those services. [[16.30 hours]] The state, and I'm sure the secretary will check me out, has only five contribution organizations. Everything else is provided either by the contribution organisations of self-government, whether regional, urban, municipal or non-profit-making sectors. So the state wants something, it can't do it alone, and it can't. Don't take it as a criticism, they ensure it, I say, both self-government and non-profit sector, but the state is supposed to create such conditions legislative, organizational, financial so that clients are satisfied in the system. Very often there is debate on the House's land, and I understand it, only on the financial side of the matter. On the budget, let me just remind you, last December, when we proposed raising money to social services, the government coalition actually laughed at us. Let the Minister see how her fellow party members voted when we proposed a one-billion increase in money through my colleague, Vice-President of the Social Committee, Jan Bauer. As you voted, from February, March, April, today is the end of May, looking for a solution. We're not just talking about the money, we're talking about the quality and the scope of the services. It is, of course, a place from another place, in many areas waiting for social services, not in the structure in which they would be needed. And I have to agree with the Minister, let me not just criticize her that this situation is going to develop, I don't want to say to make things worse, but we're just gonna need it for the future, and I think it's quite clear, more wide, a larger range of social services. At the same time, I agree with the Minister that high-quality social, not socialist, but high-quality social policy costs a lot of money for the state. That is why we must abolish socialist experiments that spend the money in vain in order to make funds for the quality, necessary and not cheap social care. I cannot agree with the Minister that she fundamentally refuses to change the payment order. I am talking to the directors of individual contribution organizations, especially in the case of residential services, and they consider the increase of twenty crowns for both accommodation fees or catering fees to be an appropriate tool that will by far solve the problem we have here today, but they consider it appropriate and necessary. According to unofficial information, the Ministry of Finance does not have a problem with this increase; paradoxically, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is opposed. In the logic of normal functioning, I would expect exactly the opposite attitudes of these ministries. It's nothing personal, I'm just evaluating the standard tasks of individual ministries regardless of which ministers or ministers are headed by those authorities. The main problems of social services that we should be dealing with - and I don't know if the upcoming amendment will remove the problems, we will see when we have it on our desk, so it is very difficult to say in advance whether it is good or bad - is the unpredictability of this system, the unclear amount of the contribution for that year, because since the beginning of the year we know that we do not cover the whole need. The Minister rightly said that the problem may be repeated on a regular basis, except last year. Inequality. Not everyone gets the same service. An uneven approach between the contribution organisations and the non-profit sector. I understand. I worked in the government. And it is quite logical that the authorities will take care of their contribution organizations first, and then they will take care of the non-profit sector. A big difference between wages and wages. It's not much to talk about. Yes, those who have salaries, these are the government contribution organisations, they basically have it easier, they increase tariffs, they get an increased contribution from the self-government. It's not that simple in the nonprofit sector. In almost every decision to grant a subsidy, there is a limit on wage resources. This means that it has to be asked again, it has to be administered again, not only the new amount of the subsidy has to be adjusted. You can't just send over half a million more. At the same time, the wage limit must be changed. Another problem is, I have already mentioned it, many years of unexpanded boundaries on food and housing, when the costs of those providers are increasing, prices for food, for electricity are increasing, i.e. Operating expenditure increases but does not increase these limits for individual charges. Another problem is unclear cooperation with health insurance companies. Once again, a long-term problem, I don't want to blame the Minister. The problems I've named aren't for the secretary, they're long-term problems. However, the government is basically working in this composition for the sixth year. What are the solutions? The solutions are not simple, they are not short-term, but at least some basic things can be adopted quite quickly and could bring about significant increases in this area. Firstly, a change in access to funding. I think it should be clear how much an hour's work costs or how much it costs to stay on one bed. It seems fair to us, and I think that funding could also develop from that. Alternatively, it could be determined how much of these costs are borne by the State and how much is paid by the authorities setting up their contribution organisations. Another solution that will certainly reduce the problem is equal access to salaries and wages. And another approach that could help is to set the system as it wants the state, i.e. what services are supposed to look like and what quality providers have to do to qualify for a public money contribution. [[Nesroz.]] We have to get rid of the inheritance that we have, when we often have five-bed rooms that are very often passable, and then they are not even five-bedded, but fifteen-bedded. If I had to sum it up. The two billion will certainly be found. I agree that today it's more of a pressure on opposition parties, perhaps even one government party, maybe two government parties to find the money. But it is much more important to keep in mind the client, the person and to secure such a system so that we can fully live up to what we have in the law for 13 years, i.e. provide those services with respect to the dignity, human rights and privacy of clients of social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I apologize to my colleague Valachová, who came forward with a point of fact. Before I give her my word, I quote an apology from today's meeting day of Mr Václav Klaus from 15.30 to 19.00 and from 16.30 to 19.15 Mr Richter. Now, Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact, also Mrs Veselý, made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u16	Well, I can't not respond to Members of the Rozvoral through the President. I pushed the tears of emotion over how the SPD cares for the sick and the people in the debt trap. I have overcome this emotion and therefore, my colleagues and colleagues, I am at this counter. Especially when I remembered how she cared for those sick SPDs when she didn't support the renewal of sickness really for the poorest since the first day of the disease, or when she didn't support the insolvency law, the debt law, which is aimed at helping a number of people from debt traps, seniors, seniors who have been victims of various scums, practices, etc., astronomical debts and have been impoverished. In those horrible times that the Member here Rozvoral recalled through the President. And second point. I think it would be fair to remember that it was social democracy, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL that supported the regulation of consumer credit, the reduction in the remuneration of executors, the reduction in the remuneration of lawyers. At the moment, the social democracy and the ANO movement also enforces the principle of one debtor - one bailout, territoriality, stopping executions for the debtor's assets and preparing these steps within the framework of a government proposal, not to mention the joint initiative of coalition and opposition Members on child debts. I think it's fair, even though the debate is completely different, but if it's been brought in here, it'll respond. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u17	My colleague, your time has ended for a point of fact. Now Mr Ondřej Veselý's factual comment, then Mr Ferjenčík's colleague. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to my colleague Stanjura for a change through you, even though he is not here right now, in part of the commentary on the payment decree. Of course, everyone would like to have more money, but if we increase the payment decree as proposed, that means 30 CZK for accommodation and 20 CZK for meals a day, that's 50 CZK a day, but they still need to finance 2 billion. And only the elderly, poor man, will be 1,500 crowns poorer in a month. That means we're gonna add 900 crowns to his pension, and then we're gonna take 1,500 from his pension. Well, that's called right-wing perpetuum mobile. Of course, social democracy will not be involved. The financing of social services is a task of the state and it is really inappropriate to pass it on to citizens, to those for whom we have social services. It is nothing that social democracy promotes or supports. And of course, I understand that the right has it as a basic modus operandi. If there's an obligation, we'll transfer the payment to the citizen so the poor man can pay for it himself. Oh, no, my friends. Oh, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Ferjenčík with a point of fact and we continue with Mr Vít Rakušan's speech. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I merely wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Valachová, remind her that just yesterday four ČSSD MEPs, together with members of the ANO, KSČM, TOP 09 and ODS, postponed the enforcement law, which introduced the principle of one debtor - one bailouter, in fact indefinitely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now we're going to continue. President Vít Rakušan, with priority right, will prepare colleague Bartošek, then Minister Schillerová. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for your word. Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I will try not to be conflicted, I will try not to speak for long, I will try to be practical and not repeat what has already been said by my previous speakers. It has been explained to the Minister here what she has done during her time in the resort, and I do not really want to discuss it, nor do I want to contradict her words whether she has experienced achievements or failures in one or another area, but I want to get to the objective reality that is on the table, and there will be no excuses for any words around it. At present, really and objectively, and all of us on the outskirts and cities feel it, just missing CZK 2 billion to finance social services, that is the fact that is here, and it should probably not completely follow up on your other steps at the ministerial post. We are really talking about finding money a month - half a billion to pay for, for example, fare discounts, half a billion crowns a month, and now we don't have CZK 2 billion to finance social services. I don't want to question the fact that pensioners definitely consume fare discounts or that students consume them. But I'm asking who in this company is really the one who needs money from the state register. Whether these are people who are objectively in a social emergency, they are people who are handicapped, they are people who simply cannot help themselves and do not even have the opportunity to make any profit without state aid themselves. The Minister here said the sentence that it is necessary to arrange for a government consensus, she would like the Prime Minister, Minister Schillerová, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to enter into the meeting. But we'd like that, too. That is why we are calling this extraordinary meeting today. We are calling it to appeal to the entire government, but the Minister has the responsibility for social affairs in this government. That is why she is primarily addressed and will show how strong the minister of this government is, and it will be shown at that moment whether she will be able to reach an agreement with her other partners on the Czech Government to find CZK 2 billion to finance social services. That's just what's going on right now, that's all. Today we are not talking about the reform of social services in the Czech Republic. Today we are really talking about the fact that as the final mayor of Kolín, I had the council on Monday - Kolín is a 30 thousand city and our budget reserve is CZK 6 million 200 000. Of the 6 million CZK 200,000 budget reserves, we had to release CZK 3 million 100,000 to finance the salaries of employees in social services. This is already a matter which changes the budgetary taxation of the medium-sized city, for which I am responsible as mayor, significantly. I see the Governor wondering how low our reserve is, through Mr President. [[to Mračková Vildumetz's Member]] We're a historically very indebted city and we have to go to the pulp, but we're still handling it. However, if such government interventions come into our budgets and we simply unplannedly have to work with our reserve in this way, what is really happening is that we have to restrict other services, and besides that, we need to limit funding from our city budget as contributions to the non-profit sector, which traditionally and long-term in the Czech Republic is a state role in the performance of various types of social services. Then I would say one more thing. We were here comparing some government to the left-right. I don't want to get into it, I was definitely not in politics at the time, and I wasn't even a member of any of the parties that had ruled before. But we will compare the period for which social democracy is already responsible - subsidies for the performance of social work within the municipal authorities to fulfil the legal obligations of municipalities. In 2015, CZK 250 million went to this area, CZK 400 million in 2017 and 2018 and CZK 200 million again this year. Indeed, the performance of the most basic social care is at risk and, above all, the fact that cities will not be able to afford to employ workers to perform these social services, i.e. objectively and completely really, and I say this as mayor, is simply the most necessary, even for people with mental disabilities, will not receive the daily field assistance they need. That's just what we're talking about here. He is not a major political clash of the right - left. We're actually having fun here, that if social services don't finance themselves, there's no funding for the most necessary ones here, and within the state budget spending portfolio, I say there's a place to cut to get to the most necessary ones. Another thing I would like to say is that the time has already to stop when the state transfers responsibility for the social activity in the Czech Republic to municipalities in the Czech Republic without giving them adequate funding for it. We just can't do it anymore, and not just financially, we don't even have an organizational way of doing it in the community anymore. You are exposing us to budgetary tensions precisely because we have no guarantee when the money will be, whether it will be, and we do not, of course, have it announced in advance that money will not reach municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic. That is why we will, of course, join the resolution presented here by our esteemed colleague Výborný, we will join in making a clear term or a clear commitment by the Government of the Czech Republic that the 2 billion crowns will be found within this year's budget. And I would really like to assure the Minister that on my part, there is no political outburst at all. On my part, this is indeed a request from the mayor of a medium-sized city, who currently does not have the funds to finance social services in its city from its own budget, if it is to ensure the functioning of its city. And believe me, Madam Secretary, that I have been very intensive in social services in my city for nine years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u23	I thank Prime Minister Vít Rakušan. Before I give the floor to my colleague Bartošek, allow me to apologize for the negotiations - from 17.00 to 19.00 Mr Karel Schwarzenberg for work reasons, from 17.00 to the end of the meeting day Mr Ivan Bartoš for work reasons and from 16.00 to the end of the meeting day Minister Antonín Staněk. Mr Jan Bartošek and Minister Schillerová will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I am a man who likes happy endings, stories with happy endings. And I firmly believe that when the Minister of Finance comes after me, he will say: I have solved the situation, 2 billion are in the world, there is no problem, we are moving on. If this is the result of today's negotiations, I will be satisfied, because that is exactly what the regions need to fund their services. Otherwise, Minister Maláčová, it certainly belongs to thanks for giving us here a list of social services, how they grow, that you are well drawn from the European Union, that you are doing a lot of good. I'm glad for that. And I'm glad you're doing well at work. The only problem is that this meeting is being convened because there are 2 billion missing in social services and not how you are pumping European Union funds. All I had to do was say the money I had, I gave it to the regions, we adopted the resolution and we could go home. The fact that we've been dealing with this problem since 2008 is nothing new to you. The cows always come as servants and say: dear state, will you help us? And they always come up with a beg and the state decides either yes or no, and power or little. And it needs to be realized that without amending the Social Services Act, this scenario will be repeated every year. I am very sorry that when KDU-ČSL entered the previous coalition and came up with the idea of multiannual funding for social services, the stabilisation of this, say, sector, both of our partners refused. I am sorry, because the problem of stabilizing the financing of social services could have been resolved for five years. I also ask, are you at least thinking that social services spending will become a mandatorial expense? At least this? So that social services can plan. I worked in social services. And I can tell you that it's amazing when at the beginning of the year you don't have three months' money and you don't know what you're going to be from, and then you're hoping and praying that there's a good guy, either at the level of the county or the state, and he's going to give you that money to exist. Of course you can cancel the service, close. It's not a problem. But at that point, no one's asking what happens to those clients, those who can't, at the end of the chain that should be taken care of. Of course, I know that the financing of social services is multi-source, that it is paid by a state that supplies money in some way 27-29 %. The regions give about 5 billion, the municipalities give about 4 billion a year. Yeah, but being a secretary can't act like he finds that the county has a lot of money in their accounts, and he says, that's good, we as a county, we as a state approve a 7 percent increase in wages, but to the regions we send a 5 percent increase in wages, and say, they deal with it, they have enough money. Somewhere it's 150 million, somewhere 200 million. Well, if they have a billion dollars to bankroll, there's no problem with them financing it. After all, no region a year before the regional elections would allow social services to fall apart. I personally feel that this government is blackmailing the region for one simple reason, because it knows that no region will dare and pay for it. And it's just a government that's missing 50 billion that's going to save these 2 billion because it's going to shut down the regions, so to speak. The structure of where what is missing is the non-financing of salaries, the increase in special allowances by decision of mid-December 2018 to some 680 million, individual projects, that is understandable. It is a pity that you did not listen to KDU-ČSL, who said last year when approving the budget, the money will be missing and our compromise proposal of 800 million will not be enough, but at least it will stabilise. You said no, you did not accept the amendment, and we are now discussing what we are going to do about it, even though you had a solution by the end of last year. [[Members of the ČSSD in the crowd at their bench debate loudly.]] Just for practice, you probably know, at the moment, even if the 2 billion were found, they would be sent to the edge, the regions would have to write a subsidy procedure, social service providers would have to apply. It's not like you send money and social service providers have it tomorrow. That's the problem. This means, if you want to deal with this situation meaningfully, it is necessary for the government to be able to solve it by mid-June, to send the money, and for the money to be meaningfully realized and transferred to the providers. In practice, this means that if this does not happen, we will be released at the end of September or October and social services will be closed. And then let this government explain to people why it is not possible... Colleagues on the left, please calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u25	I'll get you some peace and quiet from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u26	... why it is not possible to take care of people who lie at home, field services etc. I suppose you can explain it to them. I agree with one opinion from the Ministry of Finance, and that is that there is a need for reform of the financing of social services. You have my full support. But it must be realized that if everything goes well, such a reform is possible only from 2021, provided that it can be approved in the Chamber of Deputies, and that in practice means that we have two years before us when social services will again be held hostage by the government, whatever they may be. And to be fair, it has to be said that it is not enough to finance social services for $2 billion. To be honest, it should be 3.5 billion. Two billion-- that's a little bit of a conservation minimum. And I ask Minister Maláčová how it looks, for example, to finance over-regional services that are funded by programme B, what is there for example a request, or what will be a fall. If you answer me, I'll be glad. Otherwise a dedicated grant in the village, it is the same story. The moment you leave social work in the village, it means that the whole system becomes inefficient, dear, without control. And all you're gonna do is then you're gonna think, we canceled, or the municipalities canceled, because some of them aren't gonna want to finance it with their money, what we're gonna do. And believe that renewal is always more expensive than maintaining the existing system. The municipalities are currently preparing for this. In the event that the Minister's statement is valid that funding for 2020 is not envisaged, more or less the municipalities will transfer people to other jobs, they will be released and social work in some municipalities will most likely disappear. I respect this government's decision, but I fear it is a highly unprofessional approach. For example, what can disappear - daily, weekly seniors, disabled people, sheltered housing, professional social advice. [[17,00 hours]] Among other things, professional social counseling is a very interesting story. From 1. 6. 2019 enters into force so-called an insolvency amendment where insolvency administrators will propose and, by extension, the regional courts decide on the obligations of the social unions so that the client can be indebted. [[Nesroz.]] As far as I know, the financing of the enforcement of the judgment has not been settled between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. For example, the regions did not have the opportunity to comment on this amendment as part of the comments procedure. I'm asking the County Association, isn't it? This amendment avoided commenting on the Association of Regions or on individual regions? And the MPSV is informed that the capacities that are thus not available will not be available. In the social services in the South Bohemia Region where I work, 3 394 workers are under direct care and all these employees are at risk of underfinancing, which may be terminated because of lack of funding. It should be noted, therefore, that this also applies to services in priority one, which are direct care services that are provided 24 hours on a continuous basis. What's the endgame? The question is basically this. What has this government put towards social services? For myself, I say uncertainty and danger. She has wasted 22 billion of the National Property Fund and is now destabilizing social services. And it is important that the citizens of the Czech Republic hear well that this government does not matter to the most needy and the most vulnerable. Remember, when you lose your strength, this government, instead of taking care of you, will rather raise your taxes and not take care of you. A government that doesn't care about the most vulnerable, like sick, infirm, or seniors, that's a bad government! And that's exactly how this government behaves. Shame on her for not caring for the weakest in Czech society!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Bartošek. Before the speech of the Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Valachová and Mr Nacher are making a point of fact. The colleague takes it back, so Mr. Nacher, with a point of fact. Before my colleague Nacher starts, Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík apologizes from 18.15 hours until the end of the meeting day. Okay, my colleague Nacher has checked out of the de facto remark and the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Alena Schillerová has the floor as soon as the situation in the House calms down. Colleagues who are having a debate other than the critical situation in the financing of social services, may they transfer their debates to the foyer. Madam Vice-President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've listened - I don't seem to be able to sign up with those priority rights - that's happened to me several times, but I've heard an interesting debate again. I'm not going to name the previous speakers because I only feel the feelings I have from this debate. This government is called antisocial! This government, which, in just one year alone, increased the pension of pensioners on average more than the right-wing government in five years? This government? [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] Do I hear you right or am I wrong? The subject of today's meeting is extremely serious, and believe me, as Secretary of Finance, I am aware of this above all. It resonates with public space, it has an absolute priority because it affects those who cannot do without the help of the state. In no way does the government underestimate the issue of financing social services and social work. However, I also believe that our common goal is to clearly identify and name the problem, to free ourselves from politically motivated emotional rhetoric and to find a concrete solution. I firmly believe that our aim is not to scare, kick ankles, or abuse the debate on the financing of social services for attacks on the state's budgetary policy, because we all know that the figures and facts, and I will bring them here, clearly confirm that social policy has never been supported by the state more than in recent years, with the current budget for 2019 being absolutely record-breaking in this regard, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has confirmed. Now let me get a couple of numbers. The funding system, which raises this problem every year, changed in 2007. It's basically funded this year, as my colleagues have instructed me, I'm not an expert in bed. Then this subsidy system was introduced. And I'll read you the hard numbers. The numbers are from the budget. I didn't make them up. And you put in every year who ruled at that time. I guess you'll be fine on your own. 2007 - reality 7,122 billion, 2008 - 7,405 billion, 2009 - 6,102 billion, 2010 - 6,817 billion, 2011 - 6,211 billion, 2012 - 6,373 billion, 2013 - 6,550 billion. And now it starts: 2014 - 7.694 billion, 2015 - 8.570 billion, 2016 - 9,190 billion, 2017 - 11,253 billion, 2018 - 14,895 billion. and 2019 - 15,725 billion Okay? [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] Thank you. Let us not, however, think that the pressure on additional funding for delegated powers due to the increase in public sector employees' salary tables is something new. It's not! This topic is a regular color that we have been meeting in recent years almost without exception. It is always argued that if this does not happen, the money for higher salaries will not be sent to self-government additionally, there is a risk of restrictions, redundancies, and there is a risk of collapse, etc. Finally, it was said here and this year. However, I do not underestimate this in any way. So let me sum up what is most relevant in this case from the government's point of view. I've read the sums here. I have, of course, the amount of growth in the income of the regions and municipalities here, I can also mention these, I have a graph here, I also have sums that talk about constant valorization - and that's good, I don't blame anyone - the contribution to the transferred scope, as many of my previous speakers have said. [[shows]] Tough numbers. The income of the regions is growing, income is rising, these contributions are Valorizing. Yet the state is increasing this grant policy. And most of all this government. She just put the most in there. And what is the result? What is the result? That everyone is dissatisfied! They're all dissatisfied. It went in, I'll tell you exactly, 15,725 billion. and they're all dissatisfied. It's legitimate that as Treasury Secretary, I want a balance sheet on that amount, I want to know what the problem is, because otherwise there might be an ATM in Leten 15 without a PIN, and I wouldn't have to sit there. So, logically, I'm asking where the problem is. What's the problem? Where in particular? Describe. I heard today that it's a two-billion match. I don't have the discretion. The last time we ended up in a debate was about 1 billion, but it doesn't matter. We're able to communicate. I was writing a letter to the Minister at the beginning of May, and we're just communicating, and we're going to solve the problem and solve it. But I want to know what the problem is, because the problem is just every year. And that's perfectly legitimate. [[17.10 hours]] I also very much welcome the fact that the Minister here has committed himself to preparing, or that he may already have prepared an amendment to the Social Services Act. Of course, I'm prepared to cooperate as Finance Secretary because we have a systemic problem. This must be part-financing. This means that we need to be clear about how the financing of services for the future will be ensured. The idea that it will be largely bailed out of the state budget more and more is simply unsustainable. We have to figure out what the rules are. Standardization of services must be established. We need to figure out how big and how good a network the state guarantees, what costs, what is efficient and what is not. All this, I reckon, this legislation will bring. What we do not agree with the Minister - and that is also legitimate, yet we do not always have to agree with each other. It's important to talk about it. What we do not agree on is the irreplaceable competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to adopt a payment decree. I take the view that this decision should not be postponed because, essentially, everything has increased and the payment decree has not changed since 2014. I'm taking a different view here, but it's just legitimate. I would like to point out that an increase in the payment order could bring almost one billion. They call for the region, as I have noted, the chairman of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, Mr Lukl, and the assembly, when I was last week, wrote it to me by various associations and so on. So I have a different opinion here, which is nothing against anything, it's about a legitimate debate. And of course, if I have that balance sheet, I'll know what the problem is, I'll know we're looking for a system solution, so I'm always ready to work together. I was working with the County Association, Mrs. Vildumetzová, when we're dealing with twos, threes. Mr. Prime Minister and I are working together on a number of things. But I say, I just have to have input, and I have to have background, and I need to know what we're talking about. So what I'm saying at this point is, historically as a government, we've put the most into social services, we're not counting on next year's cutbacks, that's what I'm stressing. And I want to have a legitimate debate about it, I want to know how much there's a consensus, I want to know what it was based on, how it's possible that at this extreme amount, we're still where we were, and that's just it. And I think calling us and calling us an antisocial government is really out of the question. Today we witnessed five hours of debate and obstruction at the third reading of the EET amendment. The amendment, which, in addition to the fact that it is intended to straighten the business environment, which is called by entrepreneurs in this country for EET to be for everyone, should also bring considerable revenue to the state budget that there will be a third and fourth wave. Maybe even the funds that help finance a whole bunch of things. I still have a novel parked in the Chamber of Deputies for a year. Once again, we have witnessed the humiliating, humiliating behaviour of the opposition. Thank you to all citizens of the Czech Republic, I thanked them today through the media who have been writing me all these five hours supporting reports, supporting emails that have expressed themselves very much, I would say, sometimes even hard, I would not allow myself to interpret it here, some of the reports, some of what has been going on here, what the opposition has shown for taxpayers' money instead of solving the problems that this country really has and which burns it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u29	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. We have seven factual points now. And even before I give the floor to my colleague Nacher, who is the first to comment, then Marek Výborný and others, I will read the apology to the President of the House, between 17.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work, apologizes to Mrs Tatán Malá. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher, with a factual remark. Marek the Výborný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I'd ask my colleagues, because I'm going to point this at my colleague Bartošek, and I didn't originally want to perform here, but it provoked me. At the same time, I would like to answer to the secretary about the ATM. He's the ATM in Letensky and he's there. As soon as the ODS was with KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, he was blinded, so he didn't spend money on social services. And when they're in opposition, they're supposed to release without a PIN. That's how I would describe it. I had the numbers ready, I won't repeat them, but it's true. Between 2008 and 2013, on average, social services were issued between six and seven billion, last year it was 15,7 billion. I myself have been to three, four demonstrations of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities between 2004 and 2010 concerning the increase in care contributions, regarding the amendment of the Social Services Act. Zero. The first increase, for example the first valorisation of the care allowance was not until 2016, the second was approved until this period, this year, a few months ago. So, colleagues, I understand that this is a political issue, but it has actually lifted me from the chair of a word such as uncertainty, destabilization, this government does not care about the most vulnerable, the weakest. That's just not true in the spirit of the numbers. And remember what happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Výborný, Marian Jurečka, Jana Mračková, Jan Čižinský, Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Valachová will now be prepared. So far, they're logged in to actual notes. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Minister Schillerová and actually to my colleague Nacher. Let's really deal with the present, not history and the past. [[Laughs from around Mr. Nacher.]] There was a completely different demographic situation, there was another system of financing social services. And I would like to answer some specific questions to Minister Schillerová. First of all, you have our support when it comes to valorizing payment limits. We have it, too, it's part of the resolution, we will definitely support you. So I'm surprised that you're here on May 29 asking for where the problems are, and that you want to hear an accurate calculation. For God's sake, what were you doing in the government for five months to get those numbers from Secretary Maláčová? If she hasn't delivered it, I'll read it to you, and you have a clear estimate of where the 2 billion are. It is a blackout from European Union sources for preventive services according to the calculation of MPSV 0.8 billion. CZK, salary increase instead of 5 by 7 %, estimated 2 % is based again on the calculations of MPSV 0.3 billion. CZK, the increase in special allowances is based on the calculation of the Association of Social Services Providers 0.5 billion. CZK and social and health insurance contributions from an increase of 0,272 billion. Crowns. A total of 2,072 billion. Crowns. They're simple numbers. I can't believe you wouldn't have them, Madam Secretary. And I find it really strange that you're asking for those numbers at the end of May. The numbers are clear, they speak for themselves. And no one's questioning that there's an increase. But if you raise the budget and the salaries at the same time, you need to send these funds. And for Secretary Maláčová. When you promise the amendment to the Social Services Act, multi-source multi-annual funding works successfully in the Pardubice Region. At the top of the gallery is the councillor of the Pardubice Region for Social Affairs Pavel Šotola. Run after him, he'll explain to you how he can do it on the level of the county, and I believe the inspiration for the amendment of the law, so that it works in the whole republic, is here on the table. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u33	Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Mrs. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Good afternoon, colleagues, dear Madam Secretary. in fact, I will take the liberty of working with my colleague Patrik Nacher through the President. KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 could never be in government together. That's what it said here. It's just for context. Minister Schillerová, please, that list of yours was absolutely bombastic at first sight, but tell me, is there a ministry in the Czech Republic that does not have a record budget this year? Is there a ministry that hasn't been budgeted up in the last few years? Everyone's budgets are growing! Dramatically, the budgets are growing. So these arguments say that you're brilliant, that you're thinking about those social services, it's just not a defense. [[17.20 hours]] The increase in money is logical - economic performance, higher tax collection, inflation, etc. However, in December last year a colleague Vít Kaňkovský, a colleague of Pavla Golasowská, pointed out here when approving the budget that if the Prime Minister's government declared an increase of 7 percent in salaries and wages, the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not respond. When we look at the data from public sources, the total chapter of the MPSV grew by 12,9 percent, but the part concerning the financing of social services increased by 4.2 % - and you declared an increase in wages and wages by 7 percent. The end of individual projects has yet to come into this. So let's really talk about whether the problem is really solved. It doesn't! It is known for six months that the problem will be here, we have repeatedly drawn attention to it during this year in the framework of the interpelation, during the March meeting, and unfortunately you have not moved an inch. So please, nicely, from your mouth, Madam Secretary, let the directors, the employees and the clients hear when and in what form and in what amount the financing of social services will take place. And I say this as a person who is a representative of the Olomouc Region, where we also dealt with this issue at the last meeting of the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, a colleague of Čižinský will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, just at this moment, my observation and my response, because I will still be speaking in the general debate. Today, in this morning's block by 14:00, we have all experienced 751 amendments that we have to deal with within the EET, which will be 13 hours when we are going to discuss this here. And I think, as it was said here, we have many other important laws that the citizens of the Czech Republic are waiting for. We are now discussing an important topic here - the financing of social services. I am very glad that this topic and this meeting have been convened by KDU-ČSL, ODS, Pirates and starosta. I'm just asking, where are they? Where is Chairman Fiala and Chairman Stanjura? He's said a lot of things on this subject, but none of these people and MPs are sitting here. So the way we're talking about it being some kind of pressure, it seems to me at the moment that it's visibility and that nobody cares about financing social services because there's an important debate going on here, the important arguments that have been made by the Secretary of Finance, but these people are not here in this room. I don't know what to think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mrs Mračková, for keeping time on a point of fact. Now the factual remark of Mr Jan Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would, therefore, turn directly to my previous speaker through the President and wonder a little bit about the applause. If my previous speaker here says there's no one here who's called a meeting, here's the chairman of the KDU-ČSL sitting here, we're the ones who signed it, and you're applauding the claim that there's no one here. It's obviously a false statement because it's not true that no one's here. There are people here who care, there are people who think it's really a huge subject. I'd follow up on the secretary. [[Secretary Schiller off the microphone: which one?]] To the Secretary of Finance. Madam Secretary asked what the problem was. The problem here was quite clear. The Minister of Finance spoke here from the counter and the Minister of Social Affairs Maláčová wondered how the Minister of Finance spoke. It was quite obvious. And this is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is that there is no money for social services, the problem is that municipalities and regions now did not have money for social work as last year. The problem is that it is announced that there will be no money for the institution of social-law protection for children, which, ladies and gentlemen, is totally antisocial. So this is the problem. And the problem is that there's no money that if it's not provided, it's going to cost us dramatically in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Other factual points have been added. Now Mr Vít Kaňkovský, then Mr Ferjenčík, colleague Valachová, Volný, Patrik Nacher, Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for your word. I would like to address the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová through you, Mr President. I think that if we are to have a fair discussion here about how budgets are being developed and what we are valorizing, then we need to look at the other factors too. And I have to say that, as much as I respect the Minister, it is here to say that this government is making a record increase to social services without mentioning any other factors, so I think that is not fair. We all know how the economy developed, we all know how some other factors developed. And I will just remind you - in 2008 the average wage in the Czech Republic was CZK 21,600. In 2018, the average wage in the Czech Republic was 31 000. And I'm asking if it's logical that social services budgets are also increasing. And there are, of course, a lot more of those factors. How many social beds did we have in 2008? How many seniors over the age of 70? And we could talk about other and other factors that affect the need for social services and, of course, the increase in budgets. I could be satisfied as a member of KDU-ČSL because the highest increase occurred at the time KDU-ČSL was in government, but this is not to jerk off political shirts here, but let's talk about the problem we have at the moment. And at this point, we are missing CZK 2 billion for this year. And then I won't forgive myself for one more comment. Madam Secretary here mentioned the achievements that the ANO movement has that they have increased their pension by a record amount. Yes, that's right, the economy is growing, it's high-level, and it would be a shame if the pensioners hadn't joined. But I will remember one summer from the last term, when it was also an increase in pensions, and then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš refused to increase his pension to the government twice, and apart from the pressure of the then Prime Minister and then President of KDU-ČSL, these two people, there was an increase in pensions. [[Time warning]] That, too, needs to be recalled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u41	Now Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Valachová, also with factual remarks. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to Minister Schillerová. First of all, you asked me what the problem was. So the problem is you and Secretary Maláčová are sending letters. I think that's a big problem. People sitting next to each other in the bench need to solve a problem, so when they want to solve it, they don't send a letter, but they make a deal. If they don't agree, they'll take it to the government and try to negotiate with the government, if they don't agree with the government, they'll try it in the House. But instead, you send letters. That's the problem. And then I wanted to respond to this nonsense about obstructions at the EET. There were no obstructions at the EET. Many amendments have been tabled because the introduction of EETs in a number of fields is completely absurd, the introduction of EETs in camel breeders is simply nonsense. And we voted it out today. We were against the EET for camel farmers, the coalition was in favour, but we tried to show you how absurdly absurd bureaucratic measures you are introducing for the fields where it can't really help tax collection, but it will hurt him, because perhaps the part with which he will cancel, the quarry will stop selling cash to small customers, for example. This is what EET is threatening. And calling it obstruction seems completely rude to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Valachová, Mr Volný will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u44	I have two notes. First of all, Mr Bartošek, by your means, Mr President. Mr Bartošek here said that therefore the coalition government is extremely monstrous, something in that spirit, because the special surcharge that the government has actually decided last December, i.e. it has not maliciously incorporated into the budget, and now it has - and that has most amused me - destroyed the regions. I would just like to point out that the regions are dominated by the ANO and ČSSD movement, so we would destroy each other. It's an interesting idea, but it's not likely to happen. [[17.30 hours]] As for the extra charge, I just want to say what's going on. The point is, earlier, if there were big promises about raising salaries for medical personnel, no one cared that we had a large number of health workers in social services who didn't grow these salaries. Nobody cared about them. This is what the special surcharge and the increase in December served to do. At the last minute, it is true, but in December of last year, so that health professionals in social services facilities are also properly evaluated. The fact that if you raise a special supplement to medical personnel in December, you can't construct it into a budget, which I think is perfectly normal, including the fact that it's normal that they're going to be able to get their funding back during the year. We discussed here at the House in March. I'll get to that as part of my proper contribution. We are filling all the points of the House's resolution and all we are talking about in order to send a clear amount to the regions by the middle of the year to finance social services. But at this point, we don't even have the end of May. So really, let's not debate here, let's not panic here. I believe we can agree on that amount and we have until mid-June time to send it. [[Time warning]] Another in the general contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. I'm not an expert in this field. Of course, I am all ten in favour of the state effectively taking care of our fellow citizens who need it. But I was really struck by the list of the rapporteur here when he calculated why he was actually talking about two billion, five different absolutely unrelated numbers, and he said, "This is why we're saying that we're two billion short." In that context, what the secretary said was that it actually increased by seven billion in five years, that is, or eight, from six to fifteen, that was not said. But if you're based on the numbers you've been showing that we're two billion short, I'm really sorry, and it's completely untrustworthy for me. And I am quite concerned that you do not ask other questions - why the number of providers of these services has doubled, because it is also not entirely that the number needed has doubled. I don't think so either. And that is the kind of study that the Secretary of Finance would like to know before making any decisions, and that is logical again. But you should ask that first, because if the two billion were really needed and given to an increased number of providers, it could also be one big black hole. And those really needy ones might not get it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping time. We have nine factual points here. First up is Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to explain what my colleague Mračková, Mr Čižinský, said through the President. You've been blaming us for a while that the Minister or Prime Minister isn't here. He even had it in his own, and I was unpleasantly surprised, in his opening speech, as well as the rapporteur, that he was not here; it is a pity that the Prime Minister is not here when everyone knows he is at the European Council. So, Mrs Mračková just said here, and I think very conveniently, that those who called this extraordinary meeting don't sit here in most cases when you look at the composition. Nothing more, nothing less. And that's what it is. You can see that visually. It's nothing against the rapporteur sitting next to me. But the speakers said it and went away because there's obviously some kind of meeting or something. And that's what we said. You're also making a statement when someone's not from the government coalition. For that statement, I'm sorry, you don't have a monopoly. Otherwise, I will specify my first exit around a blind ATM at the Ministry of Finance, so that this is well understood. When I listed ODS, TOP 09, KDU, I didn't think all three of them were in one government, but that they gradually took turns in those governments to understand it exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. As I have announced, Mr Válek will now be ready and Mr Bartošek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to enjoy it, too. Well, now that it's gotten into that light free tone, I'm gonna try to pick it up. I thought we were talking pragmatically here about the fact that there are two billion missing from social welfare, which should somehow come up in September. So either she's missing or she's missing. If the coalition doesn't think it's missing, just say, "No, you're wrong, opposition." When both ministers - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance - say it, it's not easy, there's nothing to deal with. Then there's another option that came out of my previous speaker's mouth that there's an increase in nursing, and that social welfare is too much. It reduces, then the money isn't missing either. Simple answer again. I understand her. It's okay. But what fascinates me is that from the media and even here, there's a secretary who says he doesn't have the money, and from the secretary that he has the money. Sounds to me like they both learned the script from the Jara Cimrman theater show. You guys talked? No, we didn't talk. They were talking. They didn't. And he wants to ask me, what were you guys doing in that government all over the place, not talking to each other? And we're starting again - talking, not talking. It's simple. Do we need two billion in September? We don't. Either we do or we don't. We do. Where are we gonna get them? Does the Ministry have them? Yes. No. He doesn't. The Treasury will give it to him. Yes. No. It's very simple. A few answers, a few questions. I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mr Bartošek, Mr Čižinský will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A brief response to the ongoing debate. I will speak to my colleague Nacher and Kateřina Valachová through you. They're gonna take over who owns what. Well, the very simple thing is that we're in danger. If it is said that social services will end, that a number of clients, if they do not finance it, will simply end up helping from social services, that they will have to take care of themselves, or that there will be no one who will take care of them, because there is a real risk that money will arrive at the end of September and three months will be left and those services will disappear because some organizations will simply release their employees because they will not have the money to do so, then I personally see it as a threat to end consumers or social services users. Don't be mad at me, I really see it as a threat. Well, I certainly didn't say social democracy was monstrous. I wouldn't dare. In any case, the idea that, if the regions manage the ANO movement and social democracy, that sometimes you would not have the need to do a little harm to yourself, as I can say in South Bohemia, that I might sometimes doubt it. But okay. That's more of a social democracy issue. And the thing is simple. The government knows four months about no money. By constantly explaining that money won't be, it won't pay, go away, we've lost four months. Now it's being dealt with based on opposition pressure. Let's say that. If there's no pressure, the government doesn't deal with it, there's no reason. Well, simple question. The answer is yes or no. And that's going to be two billion by mid-June to finance social services, isn't it? That's what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Čižinský, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Procházková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. So I will take the liberty of responding to Mr Nacher. If no one meant anybody, and no one meant one, it was true, no one was talking about it. But I would like to say again, he responded to Mrs Valachová. Social services shouldn't be those, those providers shouldn't always be in a situation that they're thorny about whether their money comes in the middle of the year or at some other time. Now there's two billion missing. And when Secretary of Finance Schillerová asked where the problem was, the problem is that those two billion won't be enough in September, because if that social service provider doesn't know the money's coming, he has to release those people at the end of August. Otherwise, he won't comply with the labor code. He's not gonna get a severance payment that's legally mandatory. That means the situation is very serious. And please, let's always draw up a budget after that so that social service providers know how much money comes to them that year, they can count on it, they're sure of it, and they don't always have to depend on whether or not the money comes in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u56	Have a nice late afternoon, everyone. I apologize for my voicemail, but I won't be talking long. I'd like to see my two previous speakers who said the two ministers aren't talking, so check out the news.cz , where it is written online and shown that Stanjura had to in the House admonish the chirping minister. I guess they're talking to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. I would like to address my colleague Valachová and Mrs Procházková through you. Yes, the Minister is speaking to each other, we sometimes see that here, but we have last talked about this topic for about three and a half hours on March 27th. There have been some commitments made by both ministers that they will get an analysis, analyse and evaluate and then resolve the financing. As far as I know, the County Association has an analysis. As far as I know, representatives of the Association of Providers have an analysis. So I'm asking you, when the secretary of finance here today said she didn't have an analysis, then I'm asking about the efficiency of the way the secretary talks. And I'd like to offer them that as a gift, I'm going to pay them for a work lunch so they can sit down quietly, they don't have to chat behind our backs, and let them discuss it and find a solution. Because we're waiting for a solution. We're not waiting for the chatter, but we're waiting for the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u59	Next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. I would like to respond to both the Minister and Mr Volný through Mr President. There was a question from their mouth as to how the amount of $2 billion had happened and whether the social services and the providers managed properly and so on. Please be aware that you are questioning the work of your chieftain, who is the chairman of the Association of Regions, where the expert committee, which collected all the data from the individual government, has reached that amount. None of us Members made this up. And then, logically, I don't have to be a great thinker either, and if we say pay and pay raise by 7 per cent, and in the budget chapter of the MPSV we increase the amount to social services by 4.2 per cent, then there's probably some difference missing from the start. And we're not talking about things like individual projects, etc. So please nicely, let us not question the calculation of how it happened, let us not question the work of these institutions, these people, because they have long held the operation of these services, because for many of them it is not a job, but it is a profession and a mission. So, please, let the government's commitment be made here when it's resolved. Here sits the captains, the council of the Olomouc Region, including all the representatives for the YES raised their hand, because the situation is critical that it is to be dealt with. And to Mrs Kateřina Valachová - I ask that my colleague Patrik Nacher not disturb here through Mr President. In four years since we were KDU-ČSL in government, we have never let a social service provider come into such a situation given the date on which we are. That year, I think it was 2016, at this time they already knew that the amount was going to go to them, during the holidays there was an extraordinary meeting of regional councils and the money had already been directed there. Tonight, we're still squabbling virtually about whether they're entitled to it, whether it's justified or not. I beg you, face it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, Mrs Hana Aulická will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have three notes. First, through you to a colleague named Nacher. So the Prime Minister was at the European Council yesterday. He was coming back, he almost didn't fly in because his security guard almost shot him on the plane. So far, the experts have been folk ministers, and now it's with you. That's one thing. The second point concerns the way the Minister speaks to each other. So ask some delegates to the Assembly of Cities and Municipalities. Maybe it'd be an interesting debate. The third thing, the most important thing, to Mr Volný. The calculation I presented here is the calculation of the Association of Regions and the Chair of the Association of Regions sits in front of you and me. There are five other captains sitting here, or four other captains, silent, say nothing at all. So it's not any numbers sucked out of a finger. And the regions can't increase the number of social service providers because they don't even have the means. So again, what you're saying here is really complete nonsense. And the calculation - by the way, the Regional Association last Friday, I think Secretary Maláčová can confirm that, she agreed with her. It comes from a failure to finance the European Union, it has already been said here, and from two government regulations, which just those regions and municipalities have to reflect and comply with. That's all. So it's completely unnecessary debate. Let the government say clearly here - here are 2 billion, it needs to be financed, and we do not need to have any further discussion here at all. But since we do not know this from Minister Schillerová at the moment and it has not been quite clear and we have nine more registered for the debate, I would like to ask the petitioner for a procedural vote that we will discuss this point today and after 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u63	Yes, I'll have the deputies gather for the ballroom. I've already begun. [[We're waiting for the Members to come to the O.R. for a while.]] I apologize to the Members and Members whom I have called to the Chamber. We don't have to vote on this, and we won't, because it's not a law, and we can act within the 21st hour. I ask Mr Bartošek if he has any procedural proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. I'll make this proposal more precise. Standard procedure is within 21 hours. That means I'm gonna have to put a procedural vote in order to act today and after 9:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u65	Now it makes sense. I'm gonna reengage. I'm gonna have to vote that we're still gonna act after 9:00. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 3, registered 160, for 69, against 11. The motion was denied. Let's get back to the actual notes. I'll ask the Chamber of Deputies for some peace. Those who have had important meetings in the foyer can return to them again. Those who want to discuss this press will please keep it down. I am just pointing out that we still have four factual points, nine applications for debate and one priority right registered so far. I think the noise level is acceptable. Mrs Hana Aulická and her two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be brief and quick. I've got the show ready. Anyway, I was forced to sign up for my tech show earlier. I really ask you to focus on the activities and content of this meeting. [[17.50 hours]] I'm saying that we really want to find the 2 billion. Let's not upset -- and I think what was said here too -- the increase. Let us not constantly contradict the fact that there is a large increase, etc. Yes, it does. But the government approves the wage increase. There's been about 43%, now there's actually a 50% increase, and of course there must be an increase in those amounts. There is a constant increase in beds, staffing and so on. And based on that, the costs are increasing. It's not that the government, or the coalition in the government, has been thinking about raising amounts. But it's based on demands, adequate demands, what comes from the regions, based on what comes out of the basic network of social service providers. So let's not pretend that we're going to keep saying how the increase is happening here, but it's always against the current numbers that really matter and what we're supposed to be moving on. I think that 2 billion here have been documented and that it is really necessary to figure out where it comes from. June 15th is the final term for how we can help in this situation. Because then the regions are not adequately going to be able to divide it and we are going to get into really big trouble that some primary, field care and other social service providers are going to end up here, or at least they're going to decrease. So let's figure out what the content is and not throw who's better here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. I'd like to keep the news desk quiet. And the words will be taken by Vice-President Pikal, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u68	Mr President, first of all, I would like to apologize to colleagues who are waiting for them to speak properly in the debate. However, I did not want to perform and respond initially to President Vildumetzová, but my colleague Nacher forced me to do this with his performances. So a comment on when we're criticizing that ministers aren't here. We're criticizing that ministers aren't here when they're not here to interpel, or that they're not here when there's a law under discussion that goes into their agenda. And you may have noticed that when Mrs Vildumetzová was performing, I wasn't here either. I heard it from the office because, of course, we have monitors in our offices, and we can normally watch the debate here. It's often heard better than here in the hall. So much contribution from me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u69	Next in line is Mrs Valachová, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u70	This debate follows up on the debate of 27 March 2019. There we agreed and voted together several steps. If you come to know this resolution, colleagues, no doubt you have it at your disposal, you must find that the government is fulfilling everything. With one exception, or part, when the House resolution was: The House is asking the Government to open negotiations on ensuring the financing of social services in 2019 on the basis of the output of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. This part of the resolution, too, is implemented by the government, and all I agree with you is to say what amount is left and when it will go to finance social services to the regions. I note that I have never questioned this and I have not heard it from any coalition Member or MP that we would question that we must have this matter resolved by the middle of the year. And please don't let us get pushed around all the time, that we don't want to solve this. It's not true. And now for what's really bothering me, and that's the constant subtraction that we have here, perhaps, some bickering minister. I don't see a squabbling minister here. I see the Minister of Finance here as the guardian of public funds, and I see here the Minister of Labour who wants the highest possible quality and broadest possible assistance and care for the most vulnerable. And each of them is doing their own work. Only, frankly, thanks to you, colleagues, for calling this meeting of yours, is happening in public. But I don't mind either. And we'll figure it out. About what happened. In my opinion, several things have come together this year. And I'll tell you that in my general contribution because I have five seconds left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u71	That's right, thank you. Mr Jan Hrnčíř, Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u72	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I just want to say that we all know how difficult it is to work in social services, and I think it's very undignified that people here who take care of our needs, the elderly, must be nervous about whether they have work to do in the fall or the end of the year. And the government, which is said to be working, is sure to know that the regions demanded 5 billion more budget to cover social services. The government didn't give them this money, she gave them 5 billion less. So it was clear by the end of last year that the money was just going to be missing here, and now we're dealing with where there's some $2 billion, and we're wasting our time leaving the people who care about the needy citizens. I think it's shameful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák and his two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u74	Two minutes on the penalty box. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to Mr. Výborný, who said we're sitting here as captains and we're not saying anything. You know, there's nothing you can say in this discussion. This isn't a discussion, this is. I'd like to say we've got what we need on the edges. We know that the $2 billion, not that it's perfect, but that it's absolutely necessary. That is absolutely necessary. And I really want to, since it has already been said here, if there is a surplus in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so please, more important than the information systems is to take care of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. I have Mrs Olga Richterová here with priority rights as the Pirates' MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u76	Madam Secretary - I don't know if the Labor Minister is here. He's great. I'm glad I can talk to her, too. Dear Minister of Finance, dear other members of the government present, dear colleagues, we have kept silent and listened carefully for the pirát. You know that me and the others have been among the callers of this extraordinary meeting, and I believe that you know that I particularly care about this situation. That this is really something that is completely undignified to our country. For what a wealthy society we are, that it is those who work in our social services that are constantly being held in immense uncertainty. The management of the more than five thousand founders is under tremendous stress every year. I know that for you, who are many matadors, you've been here for years, that may sound ambitious. But I'd like to outline some way to get out of this every year. We've had this topic on the table since I started working in the House. It was actually a supplement to the budget, the adopted amendment to the budget, right after the House elections. And it was about social services. It's just evergreen. Let's get rid of him. There's no point in so many people spending so much capacity on this subject all over the Republic for decades. The second thing is that, in addition to those service providers, we really cannot defuse our municipal and regional representatives in this way. That's completely unnecessary, too. Again, the captains who sit here know well. I would like to remind you - of course, much has been said in the discussion. I really tried to listen very carefully. We're not going to repeat ourselves here for the pirát. But I want to add something I don't think was pierced. [[18.00 hours]] Everyone was talking about social services, about the roughly two billion missing from headquarters, and social work was mentioned here. I don't know if it was clear here that there is a need for the 200 million - social work in municipalities this year. This is another 200 million that we really need. And then, in the future, we need to ensure that the municipalities are confident of the state contribution to the social-law protection of children. Why am I bringing this up? It was announced at the Minister's meeting that there could be significant cuts in money in this area as well. In the finals, municipalities would pay for all social work in these aspects, from coordinating social services and their links to protecting children themselves. And I really don't know what it is. And, of course, not just municipalities, but regions. So which way out? Before I can get to the principle that might be the solution, I'd like to remind you of one more number. It is a number based on publicly available data from the Czech Statistical Office and it is about how wages and wages differ, or rewards in the public sphere, in the public sphere of social workers and in those who are particularly non-profit-making in the sector. Private providers are really small. The number is CZK 2,600, which is the difference in the reward between those in the public and private non-profit sector in the first half of the year. I'm telling you this because, according to the first half of the year, the budget is planned. It is something that is actually based on the fact that nonprofits wait for subsidies to come really, and only then can they increase wages, but the state budget is planned on data from the first half of the year. It is made during the summer, so it always relies on a lower number than how much aggregate wages are then for the whole year. This does not seem to be the case, but by the fact that it is 45 thousand workers, so in the finals this difference - CZK 2,600 - and the fact that the majority is in the non-profit sector makes a huge mistake already in the draft budget itself. Well, here's what I wanted to remind you that it can be read from the statistics of the Statistical Office. And in addition to what municipalities and regions have to deal with and what we really shouldn't have to do anymore, just a little more point. It sounded here, but I would like to make a clear statement from Minister Maláčová whether the upcoming amendment to the Social Services Act, the so-called 100, will include a definition of the standard of social services. So I'm asking for a clear statement on this, because without a quality standard, we won't know what we're going to do. We need to figure out what we are aiming for, and then we need to plan, of course, the development of the network accordingly, so that it is effective to cover the regions, but at the same time, so that there are no overlaps, even that can happen, but that there are no holes in it. I will now give you one particular example of what a social worker typically solves in the village I come from, where I was a municipal representative for four years, in Prague 10, which has about 110 thousand inhabitants per population, i.e. roughly the sixth largest village in the Czech Republic. And an example that is really quite common for an elderly person with a psychiatric diagnosis to lose his caregiver. It may be recent, case report - a lady in her 60's, died in her mother's 80's, and a psychiatric diagnosis made it impossible for her to deal with the authorities. She couldn't take any doses. She was in danger of losing the apartment where she spent her whole life. And only because the municipal social worker had enough time for her could that lady have a reasonable relationship of trust. Everything needed to be dealt with by the authorities and in the finals it is cheaper for the whole company. The lady with the illness that needed help -- that's exactly the example of the most needed ones that we're talking about today -- she didn't end up in some residential facility, she just came out for everyone the best she could. Including her. Now I'm getting back to the numbers. However, this one social worker in our country has to handle 170 people per year in such more complex cases, comprehensively implement them to deal with their life situation, and then 236 one-off consultations. It's all about 14 full-time jobs. If we wanted to make sure that only 140 people could deal with a year, 140 such complicated cases, they would have to have 17 jobs. And I'll just mention, according to the methodology, the official methodology of the Ministry of Labour, 120 such cases are recommended per worker per year, which is 20 jobs. In other words, a quarter of people are still missing in that sphere. There's a situation like this everywhere. And I'm going to mention it this way in detail so you can understand that it's not like this sphere is drowning in money. No. These people are overloaded over the long term, the sphere is still underfunded over the long term, and this year it is basically just the 200 million for social work in municipalities. So I ask Minister Maláčová, if she could also express whether the hundred-eighty will address the quality, standards of social services, and answer whether she intends to somehow systemically anchor the financing of social work in the municipalities, so that it is manageable for the municipalities. Second example. Over-regional services. I know my previous speaker, Mrs. Aulická, mentioned that the first threat is that field services will be cut off. I want to stress if you can imagine, dear colleagues, what that means. It means that the situation that each of us can get into, that his loved ones will become addicted to alcohol, involves potentially many hundreds of thousands of people in this republic. That's what our government's official report says. So these people stay helpless. The network of adictological meetings is quality and wide, but is in constant danger. And yet it is extremely important for people to be able to return to society in order to avoid unnecessary infection with really irreversible diseases. It's going to be cheaper for the company in the finals. And that's one more thing I'm going to mention. It didn't say the amount that the Agency for Social Inclusion calculated. I'd ask Secretary Schillerová. Madam Secretary, do you know how much our company costs on various lost profits and costs a person who is simply out of the system? Who's on dosages, maybe didn't finish high school or high school, and he doesn't work officially? Do you know what that amount is calculated recently in a lifetime? It is calculated by the Agency for Social Inclusion - it is CZK 13 million. Thirteen million crowns in costs when we fail to bring people back into the system. Thirteen million. On the other hand, intensive social work that brings back and stabilizes families. And that's, please, the second number. I'll get to the idea of a solution then, but I wanted you all to realize how hot the subject is. The second issue is how much it costs to stabilize a family, one parent and a child, when they get a chance to live, but also the compulsory social work that follows. Most of the time, after about a year, there's a job to be found, and people start getting involved. Their kids are gonna finish school. This is what it costs, now I'm going to say just 55 grand for that whole year, because this really intense social work with the family can only be done by ten families per worker. It's experience from all over the Republic. I have compiled data from Ostrava, not only from Brno, from a number of other cities where they associate social work with services, with housing. So please, we've either lost $13 million or a preventive, timely hit of $55,000 a year and then a gradual return to the system. That's worth it. [[18.10 hours]] And now what about how to make sure that municipalities and regions no longer have to deal with this incredibly painful state of uncertainty every year. Of course, an analysis is needed for this solution proposal. I, myself and a team of experts in the Pirates, don't have enough background, it's the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That is why I will then bring you the motion for a resolution. Of course, I'd like to explain first. The point is, of course, that it is fully in the municipalities and regions how they will make use of the revenue they receive from the central budget in the form of a budgetary determination of taxes. However, it is very difficult for them to plan precisely in the system, when they have the money from the RUD and then the uncertain subsidies. And after many consultations with many experts, I have come to the conclusion that it would be worth checking out - and that will be the request to the Ministry of Labour - whether municipalities and regions should not, thanks to a solid share of co-financing for the start of the social work, say that if they have a problem and they want to work in a difficult location for a long time, so that they can be sure that if they give some part of the money, the rest will actually be financed by the Ministry. I would suggest that to examine the social work, where it really is something that could allow municipalities to do a little bit of precautionary work, and at the same time, the financing ratio would be the prevention of municipalities asking for more than they need. It could be self-regulation. And technically, it could be arranged through how the calls for those special-purpose subsidies announced by the Ministry would work. I think it would be worth checking out how such a system would work precisely for social services. But I am well aware that there are a lot of factors of the size of municipalities, whether or not they have large residence facilities in their jurisdiction. That would, of course, be a nut to how to set the fixed share of co-financing. But my point is to check whether this current system, which gives no one certainty and only actually consumes the human capacity of all of us, this would not be the way out to plan, to develop those networks of services, to the possibility that municipalities can actually make accounts out of their policies. But, of course, there is a need for an agreement with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. I'm sure it's not quite easy to arrange such a thing. However, today's vague way of mixing the funds for municipalities and regions for social services and social work simply does not work. So let's change that. To sum up, of course, the first starting point must be to find out what the real, real co-financing rate from the regions and municipalities is today, precisely in the breakdown of social services, social work and social-legal protection of children. And after this finding may follow some argumentation of any binding percentage, as I have already mentioned, quietly graduated according to the size of the territorial unit or according to the number of clients such as the very stay facilities etc. But there is no way to consider a system that could actually ensure predictability. And that's what's really missing today. And, of course, we fully support the fact that this year we need to deal with the situation acutely and immediately. Of course, for this year and probably not even next year, it will be possible to introduce something even more stable. But for the future, we really can't pretend to have, for example, - and that's the last thing I'm gonna say - some sort of compensation system. Dear colleagues, we don't have one. In the compensation system that would work, it would have to be determined who and in what proportion to whom it offsets a proven loss, and when there are overpayments, to whom it returns as the first such overpayment. It should also, of course, be pointed out once again that the system of fixed funding would have to depend on some more stringent quality of the services provided, whether they were more serious standards for social work or social services. I will now allow myself to read the motion for a resolution which summarises these ideas, and at the same time it is really just a request for verification, a request for analysis. But the first point is the challenge. The motion for a resolution is therefore: 1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to finance social work in municipalities and regions of 200 million by 15 June 2019. Crowns. 2. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to present to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 August 2019 an analysis of the co-financing rate of regions and municipalities in the area of a) social services, b) social work, c) social law protection of children, known from the most recent data available. In parentheses - I am aware that it will probably be data from 2017. 3. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in accordance with the resolution unanimously adopted on 2 May 2019 under No. 110 submitted by 16 September 2019 The Chamber of Deputies, as part of an analysis of the possibilities of stable or multi-annual financing of social services, is also - and this is the new part - an analysis of the possible introduction of a strong share of municipalities, regions and states in the financing of social services, social work and social protection of children, including taking into account the size of the municipality and the different share of high capacity residential facilities as well as excluded localities. Following this analysis, the government should also submit a proposal for the introduction of such a compensation system, which would determine who and in what proportion offsets the proven loss and who is the first to receive any overpayment. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's probably more technical than usual here, but I find it really impossible to continue this general lamentation and blurring. And I just want to remind you of the two numbers. CZK 13 million is the cost of non-solving each person. We have about 1,100 children leaving primary schools without completing them every year. That's a crazy number. On the other hand, 55,000 crowns cost that preventive social work with the whole family for one year. Can't we conclude from this equation that social work is really worthwhile? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologizes from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. With a factual remark, Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u78	I'm a little embarrassed about the beautiful... And it's really the edge of social health is a huge problem. Through Mr President, if I could keep an eye on Professor Adámková, she would surely nod. I can't see that far, but I guess I'm waving it that way. Pragmatically, I will return to three questions that I said in the last technical question, and I am glad to hear a clear and logical answer from the Coalition Members. The first problem, and I'm sorry I had that feeling, is solved. Through the President, Mrs Valachová made it clear that there is total agreement in the government, there is absolutely no dispute and there is money. Through the President, Mr Vondrák, Mr Professor, clearly said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has the money, that it is at least 2 billion, so I have two questions answered. And now I'd just like to ask for a brief answer when the D.O.D. will send it to the edge. Just a month, I don't need exactly a day. And, of course, I'm counting, the year is important, because most of the time, it's exactly the day, it's difficult to say the month and the year, so I would have the year and then I'd have the month. I don't care if it's the first or the last. We've figured it out, and we can basically continue with other important points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I, through the President, would set this right. I didn't say, I certainly didn't say that we had money in the Department of Labour and Social Affairs' budget. I clearly said in my introductory words that the funds are not in the budget of the MPSV, and I said it quite clearly, so there was some misunderstanding. If I can respond very briefly to other contributions, the grant title to social work in 2014 introduced social democracy, that was, I think, Mr Rakušan through Mr President and it was in response to the social unrest in Genoa. So we are very aware of its importance and will continue to develop it. And it is also a response to Mrs Richterová's question through Mr President, in September we are preparing a whole series of discussions on the conceptual grasp of social work itself. Various questions have been raised here as to whether we are planning to take up social services expenditure as a mandatorial expense in the amendment to the Social Services Act. Yes, it's one of the versions. The question is whether there should be a combination of mandatorial spending and multiannual funding, but we are counting on it in one of the versions, and we are also counting on standards, with the introduction of standards into social services in the framework of a social service amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Válek again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u82	I, Mr President, apologize. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm confused. Although my neurons are dying of age appropriately, yet my memory still serves me, and I am taking notes, so I am, by no means, through the President, the Minister, or perhaps directly, if I may, did not suggest that you said such a thing. But one of the Coalition Members, through the President, said something like that. And since your fellow party colleague had previously said that there was no dispute between the two ministries, on the contrary, there is almost a loving consensus, so I thought that where the money is and how many it is is solved, and now all that remains is the date. And now we're back to where we've been with my three questions, and I'm back to that Cimrman. You guys didn't talk? They were talking. What on earth were you doing in that government? And now I am a little afraid, through Mr President, that Mrs Valachová will come and say that the Minister will not fight. So if it wasn't worth the coalition parties taking a moment, let's say, a break, and agree on how the money is, where it is, and when it's going to be. I really don't see the problem. It's simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. At this point, after three hours of debate, we are entering a general debate. First up comes Mrs. Hana Aulická. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if the patience of a rose brings, as a colleague here says. Yes, we'll hope it brings $2 billion. [[With a smile.]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, I don't think that the previous field trip that was here, actually a stalker, our citizens, and, above all, probably a provider, but also representatives of the regions and other affected subjects, I don't know if they've been emotional about it all the time, anyway, I think we should really get to the bottom of this. Nevertheless, I dare say a few more sentences and history. Traditionally, for many years, no matter who is in the government, we have been dealing with the problem of financing growing needs in the field of social services. For many years now, the government has reflected its proposals for a state budget that does not identify financial needs, the requirements of social service providers. It irritates not only the providers and clients of the system, but also the media and the entire public. Useless, as the solution always had to be found in the middle of the year. If we look back at 2005 and 2006, then we'll get to the starting point. At that time, a fundamental change was prepared that started the legislative revolution. For one thing, the contribution to helplessness has been abolished and, secondly, it has been prepared for clients of the system and set-ups as well as social services providers of the market environment, in which each needy or medical assessment service recognised by a citizen of the service is to buy for newly introduced social benefits, i.e. a care allowance. I do not want to discuss the specifics of the so-called market environment of a broad area of social services, where many clients are not mentally equipped or where few providers in this environment do more business than they serve, but I have to say that this project did not go well. Expenditure spent on care allowances has exceeded the cost of a contribution to helplessness several times, and yet it is not enough. Now we're going to move 31 billion in 2020. in the context of the cost of the care allowance itself. The state must spend more money on projects, subsidies, financing, just non-investment transfers. The system is getting considerably more expensive and it is still not enough. And that is yet to come the increased needs associated with demographic development. For years, it has failed to resolve that all the money from the care allowance is not used for the purchase of services, since it is used especially in some cases for clients with lighter disabilities only to improve their income. There is also overuse of services, and this is the use of one service gradually among several providers. The costs for different providers are also significantly different and not always due to the same conditions and so on. These problems should be dealt with more intensively by the regions, which reported vehemently for greater decision-making powers, but also by municipalities. First of all, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should come up with the promised amendment to the Social Services Act and pay more attention to the methodology of community planning, so that it is not just a list of providers' wishes, but it reflects primarily future real needs and financial possibilities. I took the liberty of this brief overview just to point out that the complexity of financing social services is not a new problem and that more factors are reflected in the lack of money. However, I must admit that my colleague Richterová, who spoke before me, really spoke about the issue as a whole, although she was, of course, more detailed in some parts. Today, however, we are to address the maintenance of a functional approved network for 2019, as, in order not to collapse, the State subsidises each year outside the care allowance through the regions of the networked social services provider. Many of them again call for funding, and a number rightly call, otherwise they would have to cease their activities, reduce or end their activities. And believe that not only this non-profit sector is actually such an uncertain hectic business, when not only in the first quarter, but also in the first half, you don't know what you're really up to, if you have to reject clients and fire employees who have nothing to pay their severance payments, or money will eventually be found. However, it should be noted that this scheme is a multi-source financing scheme, not only from the state contribution to care, disability or old-age pensions or disability benefits, which is directly linked to clients, as I have already mentioned, but also from subsidies received annually by providers of their network through regions. However, there are also various projects funded by the European Union and requiring the necessary period of sustainability, grants as well as grants from cities and municipalities, donations from citizens, companies, as well as proceeds from certain providers' own business activities. [[18.30 hours]] Honestly, no one has an overview of how much money can be raised by the organisation in the real year from all those contacted. This will only be shown by the annual report, which will also reveal various accounting transfers between items during the year. We have simply introduced such a system in the Czech Republic, where, alongside the state, regions, municipalities and private sector, the non-profit sector provides a decisive share of social services. Thus, the social services sector has become one of the most dynamically evolving in our country, which can also be expected for the future. Unfortunately, we have 14 regions in the Republic and 14 different approaches, perhaps methodologies, although, of course, everyone should follow legal standards and, of course, they are moving forward. Even if progress is not only still sufficiently aligned (?) and it is not just the creation of a network and the quality of community planning; today I am particularly concerned with the level of responsibilities of cities and municipalities up to a fixed percentage of the co-financing rate. We have regions where they have to, or should give, where they have to give or associate with the cities of 30 percent, somewhere 20, and respectively. then the county, or we can say the state will continue to finance. Different services will also need to be categorized within one network. I know it's hard to hear, but services are really necessary and services that are being used, but they don't have the highest priority, and they often dub themselves in the work of other responsible institutions - for example, a series of free advice. Community plans should then plan more specifically with a view which services will develop, which will stagnate and which may go into a downturn. But not all cities have community planning. On the other hand, we still do not have a solution to the problem of hospice care, which is not included in social services, but we still haven't been able to solve the socio-health barriers, even though there were memoranda of ministers or informal working groups. The transformation of psychiatric hospitals and this area also creates a need to increase capacity. The link between health and social services and remuneration from health insurance companies is another long-term discussed nut. There is much to be done to finally reach a successful end to the satisfaction of the stakeholders, but also to better and cost-effective use of state and public funds. Today, however, we are to figuratively put out the traditional fire, i.e. convince the government of the need for financing. However, we should take a closer look at this issue, and this is what our motion for a resolution is going to do, which I am now going to read: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to submit an analysis of the multi-source financing of social services so far without delay." All I can do is make a little comment. This is because, and I think that my colleagues, or previous speakers, have said that we are talking about the fact that there is an analysis of the multi-source financing so far, and on the basis of this analysis, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is talking about, that it has been processed, this should have been financed in 2019 in line with the demands of the regions, as has been said here. And we're really defending the two billion crowns. "Secondly submit the principles of a new system of multi-annual funding for social services, which will be taken into account in the amendment to the Social Services Act, reflecting, in particular, the growth of minimum wages and inflation. With the partners concerned, in particular the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and representatives of social services providers, discuss, in addition to the comments procedure, the upcoming amendments to the Social Services Act.' We wanted to stress that we are really reminding here that these bodies, or partners, are the most important for the final direction, or the final version of the upcoming amendment to the Social Services Act, and therefore we do not want the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to address this issue only in the ordinary commentary proceedings, but to really initiate consistent communication with them on the upcoming changes, because for that further development not only in the context of funding, but also the other aspects are the most important. Further: "In cooperation with the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, arrange a round table for the draft bill on social services and subsequently a draft amendment to the Act on Social Services to the Government of the Czech Republic." And the last part, and here was also discussed by the payment decree, is: "Start the discussion on Decree No. 505/2006 Coll., which is implemented by some provisions of the Social Services Act." This is an increase in payment limits for catering and accommodation services in residential facilities and hourly rates for operations in field and outpatient services in accordance with the resolution of the Council of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic of 28. 2. 2019. [[ČSSD Members discuss each other loudly in their benches.]] We really stress that we would like to change or amend, I do not know what to call this decree to discuss, because it is a requirement not only for the regions but, of course, for providers. And I have to say, if it hasn't been rated or changed for about six years, then, of course, the costs associated with these parameters have increased significantly over that period. And we're having a really good time that those costs aren't going to fit into those limits that are being put under today. I think that we should trust the providers themselves, especially here, because they are aware that if they have clients who are below those possible payments, they will of course not raise the amounts so that clients themselves do not have to do so, because they could logically lose them. And I myself say how I really perceive it from the field, this is where we should start the debate. And I personally see that I wouldn't be at all afraid of the amendment according to the demands of the Council of the Association of Regions, because it's based on the needs of the terrain. And again, we're getting to the socio-health limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u85	I'm sorry. I wasn't paying attention now either. But I admit the noise from the left side of the hall was disproportionate at the moment. So, madam, at least you can see what it's like to interrupt before. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u86	I won't be long. I understand you're all probably tired. I don't think that day at 9:00 is really easy. And that vote in the morning wasn't easy either, always raising your hand and pressing a button. So I understand the fatigue has reached some stage. But I would also like to say that the two billion are for KSČM, and as part of what has been said here, and of course we are based on the association's documentation, they are really, the amount that we perceive that we must find and find today - today - that path and actually we say until June 15th, so that the two billion really reach the regions by this time, because otherwise there is a risk of overall collapse. I am glad that Mrs Richterová has been mentioned here, and also Minister Maláčová has talked about this, financing other necessary parts, such as community service for OSPOD workers and, of course, for social workers. [[18.40 hours]] I'm just very sorry that - and now take it this is really from me and how I perceive the fact - that we're talking about this at the end of May. I believe that this situation may not have occurred in this part until this time and that it could have been dealt with immediately during the beginning of the year and that we could have found the money so that we wouldn't have to deal with it at some point at the end of May, that the money was missing, and that we would have found the money at least at some point this late. I think that this is unfair especially to the municipalities, but especially to the workers themselves, because they are the most important part of the municipalities, and I find very often that they are dehonestized because they are not sitting in the offices, that they are constantly out in the field and that they really are not fulfilling their, as I should say, official duty, but those are the very people that we need in the field and who are dealing with the first impact issues and are actually catching up with the whole social work issue in the system. So, on the contrary, I think we should think about it and deal with it in a really conceptual way. I will also warm up a little soup and say again that we have really only begun to deal with populist gestures and we have stopped acting systemically so that we not only think of one two years in advance or one term, but to make it a long-term effect. And this, of course, is also related to receiving, for example, an increase in care allowances at level 3 and 4 but only to home care. And when you think that we're talking about financing social services here, where money goes to a greater extent for those social services, we really need to think deeply about making a big mistake somewhere, and we should have dealt with this conceptually and above all, in line with the big change in funding, the Social Services Act. And I would really like to think about it and not make ourselves, and now I'm sorry about it, decent idiots and finally went and helped our company for a long time and no one played party shirts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u87	Thank you, ma'am. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Benda. I'll read the apologies before the microphone hits. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes from 19:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons and Mr Patrik Nacher from 18:30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u88	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely a necessary response to the criticism raised here by Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová at the absence of President Fiala and President Zbyněk Stanjura at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the moment. Well, by your means, I'd like to tell her that I've been trying to find out where they are, and they're in a meeting with your husband.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Next is Mrs Golasowská in the debate and Mrs Valachová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, when we were discussing the draft state budget at the end of 2018, I really had no idea that on May 29, 2019 I would stand here and ask for funding of 2 billion. social services. I know what providers are experiencing right now because I've worked in social services and I've asked for funding every year, and I know what uncertainty it is when you don't know what amount of money you can count on. This situation is uncomfortable and undignified for them. Social workers and workers in social services are already missing in many services, as wages in this field are far from consistent with the demands of this work. In particular, residence services are absent from senior beds, persons with a special regime and various types of dementia. Just for example, I'm going to give you an example of how a stay service for seniors and people with a special regime can work, where two employees are in direct care of 110 people. You can't even talk about the quality of the service here, and the personnel standards are getting pretty smashed. Dear colleagues, colleagues, can you imagine having your mother, your father, your grandmother, your grandfather in such service? Or that someday you yourself, we ourselves will be in such a service and will help us workers who will be on the brink of collapse and burnout? Dear colleagues, can you imagine that you don't get paid or that it's so low that you're looking for a job elsewhere, even if you're qualified in the field of social work? You may say that these are market rules, supply and demand, and who does not like wages can go elsewhere, but these are not just employees, but they are clients, those who are weak, helpless and dependant on helping others. And if there's no one to work in social services, who's gonna take care of the clients? But in order not to talk all about the services of residents, I also have to mention the services of outpatient and field services. And it has already been said from some of my previous speakers that the funds that go to social prevention services are always lower than the funds that we spend on residential services, services that address the consequences of broken families, the consequences of wrong decisions, poor education of children, housing problems, debt, various kinds of addictions. We also know that the social protection of children in municipalities is 200 miles short. In recent years the municipalities have accepted workers, received for the exercise of social law protection 400 million. last year and this year is only 50 percent. So the municipalities will be firing workers again, and those workers will be missing in the field again, they will meet in families with children, they will meet in helping the citizens who are in difficult life situations. Ladies and gentlemen, today she sat for two hours at the gallery of the director of Silesian Diaconia, who is in charge of 109 registered services, and believe that she did not want to make a full day trip from Český Těšín today, it is about 400 kilometers, but she came to hear what the Ministry will do with this situation, when she is already forced to release employees, because she has no funds for them. Silesian diaconia is 30 miles away. Crowns. The Silesian Diacony provides its services to more than 8,000 users from different target groups and has more than 1,000 employees. Maybe for the record, I have a few services here. Of course, I will not present a whole hundred services, how it will actually touch them without funding. So, for example, Home for Persons with Disabilities in Ostrava operates four registered social services for persons with severe disabilities, two of which are resident, have 18 beds. Then it is a stay relief service - 6 beds, two outpatient services, daily staff for 50 people, socially therapeutic workshops for 15 people. For 2019, i.e. for this year, they were already forced to take the following measures for economic reasons: Three posts are vacant in the positions of workers in social services in a home for people with disabilities, they are workers in direct care. Furthermore, the work of a special educator, physiotherapist's capacity limitation, 50% limitation of services providing operational matters and reduction of training costs and external support for workers in direct work as a prevention of burnout. [[18.50 hours]] The next service I'm going to give is the Asylum House for women and mothers with children in Frýdek, which operates four registered social services. It is an asylum house with 37 beds, a dormitory with 8 beds, social rehabilitation. This year they were forced, due to an adverse economic situation, to proceed to an organizational change, which consists in the abolition of the position of head of service. Another service is the service TABITA Český Těšín, Třinec, Jablunkov, which provides six registered field services personal assistance and lightening services. Due to the underfinancing of services from state budget resources, service staff face strong pressure on performance. User revenue is crucial for the survival of the service, and thus any failure in direct work, for example due to the death of the user, changes in health status and the like, causes complications in the form of a loss of payments from users. The service does not have sufficient staffing, both on the level of social workers, where they lack one-time and on the level of workers in social services, again because of the lack of funding to cover their wages and the associated additional costs. Madam Secretary, Madam Secretary of Finance and Labour and Social Affairs. I believe that money for social services and also for the performance of social work in municipalities will be found, so you will give a clear signal that you value the work of employees in social services and agree that their work is to be properly valued financially. Otherwise, I hope that you are aware of all the consequences that a lack of finance will bring not only to employees, but to clients in particular, and to the weakest and most needy. I would also like to say, Madam Secretary through Mr President, that you said that you would be discussing an increase in the amount. But employees and clients don't want discussions and service providers need money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Dražilová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I've had a long speech prepared, but a lot of what I wanted to say has already fallen. In a lot of things, I agree with my colleague Aulicka and I would like to say that I consider it very important that the payment order should be amended. The subcommittee on social services and the disabled will also deal with this tomorrow. It is indeed the first step that must take place, and I think that the argument of some who say that services will then become financially unavailable for some clients is false, because in the present law we have § 73 para. 3 according to which the client must remain 15 percent of his income. And just to clarify, the current decree sets a ceiling of CZK 11,700 a month. If someone has a pension of CZK 11,700 a month, they have to keep 15 percent of it, that's CZK 1,755. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs Valachová will speak in the debate. Mrs Pekarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up, on the basis of the debate that I have been able to hear so far, my opinion on the matter, including the fact that I was discussing on 27 March 2019 when we were discussing the situation on the financing of social services, tried to discuss and across the political parties to find agreement on what the resolution by the Chamber of Deputies at that time might look like to finance social services. Among other things, in order to show, as the House, especially the most vulnerable and most necessary, that their fate is at our heart, they are not indifferent to us and in this case we do not play much on the color of political jersey. Now, to remind you, I really feel that during today's debate, we have forgotten, reminded and read the essential part of what we voted for. Firstly, as the Chamber of Deputies, we called on the government - here I note, I do not see this at all as the difference between coalition Members and Members and opposition Members, because the House as a whole controls the government, so as the House, we called on the Government to submit to the Chamber an analysis of the functionality of the current model of social services financing in the Czech Republic by 30 September 2019 according to the provisions of Section 101a of the Social Services Act, comparing the impact on social services provision in individual regions. At the same time, we called for point II. Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, including amendments to Section 101a and the Annex to this Act concerning the percentage of regions in the total annual amount of funding for social services, which will respond to an analysis of the functionality of the current model of financing of social services in the Czech Republic in order to eliminate interregional differences. I'll stop by this point II. and I must state both point I and point II. The government's in business. If you have noticed the terms that we voted for, and then of course, because we are having parallel and round debates about various proposals, whether it be KDU-ČSL, the pirate party, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, then I would be very happy if the creators of those other resolutions would check out what is going on with the original resolution from March. My guess is about 90 percent of the text. I will continue to do what is no longer covered by, let's say, our debate and action today, and that is point III. our March resolution, I note joint, when we asked the Government to open negotiations on ensuring the financing of social services in 2019 based on the output of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. So where are we in terms of meeting this point? Of course, the opposition can criticise that it should have been faster, better, happier, more united, more coherent in the mutual embrace of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, of course all this can be claimed by the opposition, but the fact is that an analysis by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs exists, negotiations have taken place with the Social Commission of the Council of the Association of Regions. At this point, let's say, we are lacking in having an overall analysis as required by the Minister of Finance in terms of the total amount that has been officially communicated to the Government on the basis of the Social Commission on 23 May 2019 and, of course, in order to have an unambiguous opinion from the Council of the Association of Regions. As early as March, I think we agreed that in order to honestly finance social services, this financing must be carried out in fact and physically by mid-year at the latest in June, so that we can organise the deputies so that we can get the funds to the recipients of social services and, after all, especially the most necessary and most vulnerable, which, of course, is why we are having this debate in the first place. From my point of view, so today, we really should say, and we should see in front of our eyes, especially those in social services facilities, those specific clients, clients, orphaned children, moms in shelters, seniors, seniors in homes for seniors, disabled. We should see these. And from my point of view, and now I say this from the point of view of my best consciousness and conscience, they need to see one thing - that the House clearly states, by when at the latest, that means the term, the funding for the financing of social services will be provided and released by the government. That's all these people need to know. If they don't know, they'll just be scared, they'll read the papers and listen to the opposition from the point of view of all the crazy catastrophic scenarios about crisis developments in social services financing. [[19.00 hours]] So I would like to call on you across the political spectrum to, let us say, cross all the resolutions that we are discussing in the galleys, so to speak. And I would like to propose that a joint agreement, a joint compromise could sound like the House is calling on the Government, following the resolution of 27 March 2019, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for the financing of social services for 2019 by 15 June 2019, based on the output of the Association of Regions - through you not only to the kind Mrs Vildumetzová, but especially to the Chair of the Association of Regions - that is, on the basis of the output of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is what I think is something that can calm the recipients of social services. Everything else doesn't identify them, and I think it doesn't even solve anything here. In conclusion, I would like to make an honest statement on one thing, which therefore does not please me completely, and these are repeated proposals, some say honestly to increase, some hide it and say valorisation of the payment order, i.e. simply accommodation and food in social services facilities. So here I have to say, I don't see it as clearly as the Union of Cities and Cities. Of course, I have registered his recommendations in the public space, and I also do not see it as clearly as the Association of Regions, because I have also noticed their public declaration towards the payment decree, to valorize the payment decree. And now I'll tell you why. I understand, of course, that the Minister of Finance, as a hawk, has also registered it, as well as I have, and as a public fund administrator, of course wants to see some analysis, wants to see how this would work, how to involve it in the financing of social services. And I'll tell you a few facts, because, of course, based on the Union of Cities and Municipalities and the Association of Regions, I've been trying to figure out how it is with the payment decree in practice. And here I'd like to say that it's 36 percent - 36 percent - that's not enough - the clients of social services facilities are already entitled no matter what we're talking about, to a reduced remuneration. This means that their revenues are simply such that even if we invent what in terms of valorisation or increase in payment orders, we will not be able to choose anything else from them. And it's 36% of the beneficiaries. Thirty-six percent. And I think it's fair to talk about whether this whole operation is gonna bring us that much or take something from us. At the same time, this House is discussing an increase in pensions. I think, in general, there is a large part of the Members and Members who think that it is still little. I would just like to point out that, after the common sense of these 36% of seniors and seniors, they will again pay these amounts from the so-called increased pensions, from the two hundred. And as far as the wealth of our social services clients is concerned - I am now heading towards senior homes - so I would like to point out that on the basis of clear statistical data, and I believe that it will undoubtedly be of interest to all the participating members of the government, really only a percentage, for homes for disabled people it is probably only 2 or 3 percent, for the other, let's say classic homes for seniors it is about 20 percent, but I do not think that it would be much, so only this percentage, or up to two dozen percent of seniors and seniors have a higher pension than CZK 14,000. So, on the one hand, I understand that, through the President, I see a colleague, Markéta Adamová Pekarová, that there is definitely a portion of seniors and seniors who could pay higher amounts from old-age pensions, no doubt that such a group exists, on the other hand, I think that 36% of seniors and seniors, as I mentioned, are large quantities that will not pay so much. And let's think about whether really valorising the payment decree is alpha and omega to finance social services and whether it is a signal that we want to send as a government and as an opposition towards social services. To conclude, I believe that we agreed on a procedure in March, the government is following this procedure. The overwhelming majority of the part of the resolution that we are discussing in the proceedings is merely a subset of this resolution. And the only thing we can discuss is whether or not we agree on whether and by what time we will all be able to tell the recipients of social services: until then and then on the basis of the output of the Association of Regions and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the analysis, we will resolve the situation. That would be good for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I have to correct a little bit when I see this troubled face of my colleague Kateřina Valachová. On the one hand, in March, a number of resolutions were not adopted either. We wanted to commit the government to this by April 20th. It was obvious how social democracy really wanted to solve the problem. She didn't want to deal with it, she didn't support this resolution. And the fact that the government is actually acting here, that the Minister has everything agreed and that the resolution is actually being implemented... So it comes true that last week, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was convinced that there was no need to finance the crown at all. When the regions, the opposition, but also the service providers, etc. started to push, things suddenly started to move a little bit and it was obvious that he would have to make a deal. So it is not true, the resolution is not implemented and there is a need to give clear deadlines if it does not sound today that the government is really obliged to present a clear concept of a solution to the financing of services here by mid-June. So that's one thing. And I don't quite understand the idea or proposal that was made here that it should be based on the output of the Association of Regions. I wouldn't bring the County Association into this at all. Here it is necessary for the government to agree on the agreement of the Secretary of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and ideally for the person who has the responsibility to do so, and that is the Prime Minister. Association of Regions, respectively. The Social Commission of the Regional Association adopted a clear resolution last week and called on the Government to do the same as we call it to do. I don't understand why there should be any outputs, because when it comes to the numbers, the 2 billion we're talking about all the time, that's where it's clear. I repeated it here and again for the Treasury Secretary, who told me she didn't know it to this day, so I told her. We're able to give it to her. It's an output from the Regional Association, the numbers are supported, it's very obvious, there's no need to discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u98	The regional association is in the resolution because the Regional Association itself demanded this precisely because it wanted to control it and asked the Chamber of Deputies that the government would not forget its demands. Legally, I would like to point out that the Social Commission of the Regional Association is not the same as the Regional Association. And I, although I want to finance social services, also want to know that all the captains in one line support this amount and will deal with it afterwards. And as for all the malicious reasoning here that nobody would want to fund anything at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs last week, I don't know what kind of aim my colleague Marek Výborný hired, probably betrayed, misheard, didn't have a hearing aid, I don't know. Nonsense. Nonsense. I don't think he believes it, he's laughing already. Like I think the Labor Ministry and the Labor Minister may suspect a lot, but they would argue that they shouldn't get a crown, I don't think Alena Schillerová believes that either. She's probably laughing too. That's really unbelievable. [[19.10 hours]] What happened? What happened was that in March we said to each other from the point of view of the discussions that we had, and please do not pretend that we are also running them round the clock, that in the case of the financing of social services we really need at least - here I want to say, Mr Vondrák through the President, he is right - at least necessarily spending two billion, but also, and that was the question in March, we were based on the fact that the regions can involve more than a billion and a half, which was already secured by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs from the point of view of European funding last year. Yes. And that didn't happen at the moment. It is fresh information from the Social Commission that these funds cannot be drawn up, and that is the change. [[Time warning]] [[Attention on time.]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u99	Mr Kaňkovský, factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u100	I also allow myself to react briefly, through the President, to my colleague Valachová. So we're talking about two billion. At the beginning of this discussion, there was some controversy about whether or not the two billion were needed, that we were missing some kind of analysis. Finally, I think that the discussion here showed that the Regional Association agreed that the Association of Providers and after some peripetia had agreed on the MPSV calculations. This means, in my view, that resolution is no longer important if it is based on the Association of Regions, but the amount of CZK 2 billion is important there. And then, in my opinion, another word is important. And that is that we should not call on the government, but we should impose on the government to present a proposal for a solution by 15 June this year. Because we sat here for three and a half hours on March 27th, and we urged the government to present the proposal for a solution. And, as my colleague Marek said, Výborný through Mr President, we as KDU-ČSL wanted it by 20 April. However, the deadline finally passed by the end of June, but even today we see from the debate that there is no agreement at government level. And we want to hear that there's gonna be a deal, and we want it in real time by 15. 6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u102	Just very briefly. A colleague of Kaňkovský just said that. And the deals and the negotiations. At the Regionals Association, on the Social Commission, last week, the secretary came to say that one billion is enough. Further information that went to the Association of Providers by both Prime Minister and Minister Schillerová was such that it is not really necessary and that there is a need to look for resources inside those regions. So it's indisputable. All members of the Social Commission of the Association of Regions will provide you with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. Mrs Valachová factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u104	There's no point in arguing. Whoever listened to me well heard that from the point of view of the resolution on 15 June, so that the government would clearly set out the financing by 15 June, on the contrary, I would point out that I fully agree with that and that this is what we are lacking and what we should have agreed on. So there's no point in arguing about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. We are going back to the debate. Mrs Pekarová. And I will read the apology of Minister Richard Brabec, today from 18.30 to the end of the day for business reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said here and I would not like to repeat the things that you have heard here in this debate. I just want to, so if I follow up on the dispute that is now here to explain, or to say from the position of member of the Committee on Social Policy, that when we dealt with this area in the presence of the Governor, the Member and Chair of the Association of the Regions of Mračková Vildumetzová, in the presence of Minister Maláčová, there was still no clear agreement on how much money is missing, what the amount is, and it was diametrically different. They differed in the sense that they were literally different orders. So this has been a very dynamic development in recent weeks. And I'd really like us to at least find a match here on the fact that this money really needs to be funded. That it is needed quickly, as soon as possible, because it has really been said here many times what threatens to collapse and how it will affect the most needy and people who really need this help very often, very intense. And this dispute, which is now going on here, if it's going to be going on and on and on and on, soon or a little bit later, I think it's already a thing that's kind of a big deal between the different actors in this discussion. I also want to make a brief and very brief motion for a resolution, which we would like to add to the points that have been said here many times. But I want to bring another perspective to this discussion. Yesterday, I presented myself to the House in the discussion of the agenda of the meeting with a request, with a request for a new point. It concerned the financing of individual projects from European funds, which are now suspended in their reimbursement by the European Commission and financed by the Czech State. At this point, it is CZK 161 million. One of the most famous examples that I have also mentioned is the toast bread line of Penam, where it is CZK 100 million. And in this case, you have rejected - that is, of course, the full right, most have been found to refuse to include this point - to discuss this issue, but I still want to draw attention to it and follow it for a simple reason, so that we realize what the government is able to find money for, what amounts are being sent from the state budget, and where, on the contrary, we are at risk of collapse, because that will is lacking. Here in this case, if we hadn't sent 100 million crowns to the toast bread line, we could afford social services, for example. year-round service in shelters. This means both accommodation, services and operating costs, including meals for 913 clients. 913 people who have specific life destinies, situations. They are mostly mothers with children who have found themselves in a truly unenviable position and whom we can help. No, we have a toast bread line for Penam instead. Or we could finance 4,562 caregivers per month, which is 380 caregivers per year. Specific 380 people who help clients who are thousands. The same could be said of course about the personal assistance that could be in return. And it would be 769 230 hours of such work. Personal assistance, lightening services, care service. It's 32 hours of assistance for a thousand seniors. This could all be for it, but instead, there's a toast bread line for Penam, a company that has billions of turnovers. Here in our... In that debate, another priority has also been raised by the government on which the money is found. It's a fare discount that we've been criticizing from the start, and we're saying it's a nonsystemic waste of money - and exactly with the argument we've been saying from the start, I'm turning to you now. This money is now missing where much more is needed. There's also a discount for those who can afford to ride for their own who don't need it. But those who can't help themselves, those who need help are dependent on helping others, so now it's hard for them to get money. It's one third of the amount that's paid annually for fare discounts. And let's say everyone for themselves, and I think if you're completely honest with each other, we agree that where there is more need, it's quite clear. They're social services. So this debate just shows what priorities this government has, where the money is able to find without any big squabbles. And then it turns out here in practice that when it comes to things that are really needed, like a parent's contribution, such as the financing of the social services needed at the moment, there is no such simple agreement, and the government is arguing, one minister with another - one minister with another, to be exact, where the money is really to be found and who should give it. [[19.20 hours]] I think that we already have quite a choice of resolutions here, but I would like to add a proposal that helped me construct a colleague, Mr Válek, who very often into politics by being here for the first term, brings such a look from the outside and says: I just need to know when the money will be sent to the regions. And that's it. The whole debate is nothing more than what it will ever be so that the uncertainty in social services ends, so that providers know that they don't have to fire, and so that we can calm our clients down, that they won't really lose those services, and that care for them will be maintained. Therefore, this resolution is very simple and very, let's say, targeted, quite obviously. Let me quote: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday 4. 6. inform the Chamber of Deputies of the date on which it will send the necessary funds to cover the financing of social services in 2019 at the edge." It is one simple context that is, I think, all-speaking and will give us a sufficient answer, if of course the term is actually respected, to the questions that have been raised here for several hours within the debate. I ask you to support this resolution so that at this point we can at least, as such, give the providers the assurance that they will actually receive the money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. The next in line in the debate is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Mr. Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, Madame Members, as a Social Democrat, I say that we are concerned about people, whether they are clients of social services or workers who take care of these clients. That is why we have repeatedly increased wages and salaries in social services. In 2017, it was 23 percent, before ten percent, and then also. That is why I also think, at this point, that we must reject the motion for a resolution from the KDU and right workshop, paragraph 5, on increasing the payment of clients. And that is why we will support Kateřina Valachová's proposal, as she put it here, because it gives the framework that social service providers need at this point. Now let me be a little bit wider and still explain our position or my position a little bit in context. You know, I've been getting e-mails lately, but I've been approached by people in person, last night at a film festival in Zlín, people from the cultural industry, and they ask me how long we've been overlooked by a coalition partner. I answer that it is important for me that the social democracy programme is being implemented, that is to protect workers, raise wages, support for families with children, etc. Everything would be different if Andrej Babiš ruled with the right hand or side of the eyepiece. We Social Democrats are concerned about the cause, about people, about children, about seniors. That's more than our vanity. That is why, when preparing the state budget, we asked for the social services already mentioned over 17 billion. Kč. We managed to get 15.72 billion. Kč. From the Operational Programme Employment Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs moved 1.5 billion to social services. Kč. Now it turns out that our initial requirement for funding and the amount of social services funding was justified. And I am really sorry that if we know and hear, and we are already giving it a second emergency meeting, that there is simply no money in the social sphere, and yet we all know that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has 94 percent of its expenditures essentially clearly given, because they are mandatory expenses, it is simply pension money, parental contributions, benefits, etc., and yet no one is discussing the budgets of other departments. I have to ask, even though I know it will stir up the debate again, but wouldn't it really be possible to buy equipment for the army cheaper, note bene when - how did I know today - we have a very strong defence industry in the Czech Republic ourselves? What about building roads and highways? They said we were building the most expensive highway in Europe. By the way, two kilometers of new highway would be exactly the 2 billion we need here. Now put those two kilometers of weight on a bowl of scales and those hundreds of thousands of people involved as clients or employees. He stopped me, and I'll admit that, even the Minister of Health's statement. Health care is a resort that also needs the money, but this reflection is about going to be 7 billion. Plus medical schools. I'm sure I won't question the need for a doctor. There really isn't one against it. But will this money be effective? Will it really add doctors in the field and hospitals? Or just the graduates will improve their business cards with the title MUDr. to be better represented by pharmaceutical companies, where really interesting money is being made? Wouldn't it be cheaper and more effective if we really wanted to get a doctor, for example, to choose a medical student as well as whether these people are supposed to actually treat and work with people in hospitals? Personalists have such a beautiful test, it's called career anchors, and that's where you can tell if this guy's even capable of working with people. We would find similar examples in all other resorts. My previous speaker, Mrs Adamová Pekarová, recalled the money that goes to buy a machine for the company. We would certainly find more such examples at the MIT. [[19.30 hours]] I expect that the situation we are discussing will be borne by the government as a whole, that the government will be held accountable for social financing. The Prime Minister is talking about investment. Even welfare is an investment in people. I'm sure everyone agrees that in a civilized society, this is the most efficient investment that companies always return to. I believe that the government as a whole will handle this situation and will find the necessary money to provide social services. But the government as a whole will then support the proposal for multi-source and multi-annual funding. However, I want to underline once again that responsibility for social services is not only the responsibility of the state but also the responsibility of the regions and municipalities. And I can't condone the note here. Today, at a press conference on the subject of providing social services, there was also a councilwoman for the social area from the Zlín Region. The Zlín Region is led by the Governor behind KDU-ČSL, by the way. And at all costs, our governor is trying to push for a truly controversial construction of a new hospital for 8 billion. And that's the official price. Construction experts estimate 14 billion. Just to start the construction of the fungle new hospital on the green meadow, Mr. Governor says it will take 2 billion. Crowns. He says the county can do it. And I have to ask. If the county has the 8, or 14 billion, it doesn't have what it takes to give 160 miles. CZK for your social services? And I say it on purpose, and I underline my word. Because the founder of these social services is the county. Or they're NGOs attached to the church. The rest of them are minimal in the county. It's just for the record. Of course, as a social democracy, we want the best care for seniors, people with disabilities, but also decent conditions for social services workers. Their work is greatly appreciated, and what we have done for them in the past, I have already talked about it, and I will not repeat it. Again, social democracy is about people. And I believe that it must be the same for the government with the participation of social democracy. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs does not have the necessary money. Finance must be put together by the government as a whole. It's not a matter of two Madam Secretary. This is not just a debate between them, between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. I add that the increase in payments from clients, as suggested by the resolution of the appellants' workshop in paragraph 5, which enforces the right-wing and other appellants of this meeting, is unacceptable to us. This would result in an estimated 8 million crowns and would affect the poorest. This really is not the solution. Finally, I really want to express my confidence that the government as a whole will find the necessary money. That is also the point of the motion for a resolution, which Kateřina Valachová presented here and which I will, of course, support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Before I give time to actual notes, I'm going to introduce you to note cards. Mr Venhoda apologizes to us from 19 to 21 o'clock for reasons of work, Vice-President Hanzel from 19.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Levová apologises to us from 18.45 to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Votava apologizes to us from 19 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Černochová apologises to us until the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Vácha apologises between 19.30 and 23.45 for reasons of work, Mrs Válková apologises to us between 19.15 and 21 o'clock for reasons of work. And now, please, with Mr Jurečka's factual comment, Mr Juránek will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. It did not allow me to react a little here to the Member, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, through Mr President. I think everyone here in this House is about people. I don't think we need to be as reassured about this here as it has been said several times. But mostly why I came here. You started here to mention where to look for the funds, and you started to mention the example of the Zlín Region, the Governor Jiří Čunek and the Governorship and their intention to build the hospital. That's a nice thing to say, if you're using such arguments, then say the whole thing. Because there are two things on the scales. Invest 10 to 12 billion CZK for 10 years in the area of the existing hospital, which is in the flood area, or invest an amount up to CZK 10 billion for the construction of a new supermodern hospital that is not in the flood area? So then let's just say the whole thing about how the facts stand, please, nicely. And you were actually contradicting yourself here because I didn't understand the contribution in the context that you were saying why the Zlín Region couldn't find the 160 million crowns so he could put them in those social services. So why do you, as a social democrat, support this point where we're trying to ask the government here? Then let's say that these regions, these municipalities, can pay for it, and they can pay for a lot of other things. And all those lovely gifts will be given only by the government from its budget, such as increasing fare discounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Please don't look directly at each other. And now, with the factual remark of Mr Juránek, then Mr Benešík, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, then Mr Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u112	Through Mr President to Mrs Gajdůšková. I really must say this time, my dear colleague, that in a very outrageous way you have underestimated the work of KDU-ČSL at regional level throughout the Czech Republic. And I would like to say that I see this as a very personal matter, because we happen to have created certain conditions with you within the South Moravian region. I can say that where KDU-ČSL is, there is even room within the individual regions, there is the possibility of doing multiannual funding. And according to the pattern that was going on until we were in the coalition in the South Moravian Region, which took place in the South Moravian Region, it took place in the Pardubice Region, or is currently being prepared in the Zlín Region, so this method can be taken over throughout the Czech Republic. And I am quite responsible here to say, my dear colleague, that we are already much more social than the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Party, so to speak. [[The President draws attention to the error.]] What did I say wrong? [[President: Czechoslovakian.]] Czech. And I said Czechoslovak, I'm sorry. Czech Social Democratic Party. And I'm just gonna be really happy if we don't apply these things from the level of the county here. The last thing I want to say in this whole thing, so I want to say to everyone who's been around here, and I want to say yes, it's always been hard for the regions since 2000, and no government has been completely in line with those regions, of course. And we always had to justify everything, even though our leaders were in that government. And I think it's just as much a duty for you to explain these things, to put it quite clearly on paper, so that it's as clearly written as it is now in the Regional Association report. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I support the report and support what is written in the financial section.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. Thank you and now, Mr Benešík, again with a point of fact, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also a member of the council of the Zlín Region since 2004, one of the oldest, although I am not the oldest. What has been said here is simply true - and, according to all analyses, the construction of a new hospital will be much cheaper, shorter and less painful for patients and staff than it would be to repair existing ones. If the estimate of CZK 7 billion is new, the estimate of the reconstruction of the existing one is larger. If we compare what it would cost in the end, we must increase the second amount for the reconstruction. That's just the way it is, and I think that the Zlín Region, which doesn't have a faculty hospital, deserves a top workplace for its people. That's what we want in Zlin County. And again, according to all the analyses - and we've had tens of hours of discussions at the councils with experts - the variant of the construction of a new hospital will just come out cheaper. Today, the hospital, or the Zlín Region, will spend over 100 million crowns a year just to solve the emergency and inadequate conditions in the old hospital, and the long-term loan will cost us roughly double. So imagine that we're sticking it like a swallow's nest, making a situation hard for doctors and for patients and nurses, and it's only costing us over 100 million crowns in an emergency, and maybe we can have a new hospital, which we'll pay back, but 200 million a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time, and I would like to ask that we try to hold things when I know that we are responding to the debate. Mrs Gajdůšková, then Mr Válek. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u116	Just really fast. Of course, I did not want to develop a debate about the new controversial hospital in Zlín. Facts, we could talk about these for a long time. Opinions are different, opinions are different. I just want to say that I'm really interested in the position of money itself. On the one hand, we don't mind, in billions, we have as much as a county, on the other hand, we say that this is just a problem, and social services will fall if they don't get it within a certain period of time. I am convinced that the money is to be put there and that there is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u117	Madam, I'll interrupt you, then I'll give you more time. I ask the House for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u118	I don't think I'm contradicting myself. The state is supposed to put the money and give it. And I am convinced that it has to be done so that it is necessary to look for all resorts. And social services must be a priority. However, I responded to the press conference at noon on the part of the KDU, where the Minister, where we were blamed as social democracies, was blamed, and I also responded to what was said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u119	Thank you and now please Mr Válek, Mrs Pěnčíková will prepare herself. Before I give my word to Mr War, there are other apologies. We are apologized to Mr Richter from 19.00 to midnight for working reasons, and Mrs Malá also from 19.00 to midnight for working reasons. I now ask Mr War, Mr Válek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u120	Here, Mr President, I apologise very briefly. Through the President, I am happy to discuss the Zlin hospital, let us no longer discuss this, and if you believe me at least a little bit, there is nothing better that region can meet than when they do this. Really. And I'm gonna be so jealous of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u121	Thank you for the briefness. Please, Mrs Pěnčíková, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u122	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Fortunately, I don't have a voice, so I'll be very brief. I must stand up for my colleague Gajdůšková, although the debate, as has been said, does not belong here at all. By your means, Mr President, to Mr Benešík. Luckily, I'm not in that county council anymore. I only go there to have fun because - I recommend it to all of you, sometimes go there from other regions - it's about the truth of the experience. No detailed analysis and calculations were submitted to the hospital. And to my colleague Jurečka. I am very glad that you are interested in what is happening in other regions, but perhaps you could teach the Governor that the resolution of the council is quite important, that he could start following it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Once again, I will remind you that we should not turn to each other directly, and I ask Mr Výborný with his point of fact, and then Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor. For one thing, I would ask that we return this debate to where it was, and I would really ask that the attacks on our regional politicians stop here. By the way, when you look at who's holding social affairs on those regions, they are in many places the councillors behind KDU-ČSL, in Ostrava, in Zlín, in Pardubice and beyond. And Mrs. Gajdůšková. How can you transfer social services from state to state in 2015 and today say you won't actually give them the 160 million? Maybe I'd like you to take a look at the tape of your performance. Send it to your captain Martin Netolický in Pardubice. I'm curious to know what he's going to say, because it's a complete misunderstanding of how social services financing is supposed to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u125	Thank you for your time and please Mr Benešík. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to another note. Mr Farský apologizes for today's meeting for personal reasons from 7:45 p.m. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u126	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't really a meeting about a Zlín hospital. Anyway, I insist that investment in regional health care, which is smaller than the repair, is a good thing it's not wasted money. It's not the Governor's reprefund, it's not the reprefund of the board, it's just an investment in the health of the Zlín Region's inhabitants, and I'm proud to do it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. That is what we have dealt with at this point in time with factual remarks. Please, for the general debate by Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs Mr Mračková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u128	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I had originally prepared a very long structured speech. Given what time it is and how much has been said here today, I will only try to gloss over the most important things. Maybe I'll start with what I experienced this afternoon, when social service providers visited us here in the House, both representatives of charity, Silesian diaconia and some others. I have to say, the conversations with them were very practical. They told us their practical experience as to how they are at this point in time with funding. For example, it sounded from the mouth of the director of the Silesian Diaconia that she was already forced to release some employees, because the actual prospect of funding for this year is probably the worst for her in the last five years. But when we were breaking up, these providers' representatives asked us - how do you think this is going to turn out today? And I said, I've been through a lot here in the House, but if the representatives of the government coalition yesterday at the press conferences said they'd support the agenda for this meeting, I'm convinced that at this point, they already have a solution, and that basically the opposition will make us look good today. And I was wondering why not. This problem, which we have here today, is really so serious that if the government comes today and tells Secretary Schillerová through the mouth of Vice Prime Minister Schiller - we have a deal, we finally agreed with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs this morning, we will pass it on to the Prime Minister and two billion crowns will be funded in June, so it will be the best that can happen at this meeting. And I believed that the opening words would be here today, and that those - I don't know - eight proper and ten preferential rights would not be applied here at all, and that we would be done at four, maybe five o'clock. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. [[19.50 hours]] The discussion here today was very tedious, it really is no longer worth saying all the arguments here why it is necessary to finance two billion crowns in social services. I'm glad it sounds not only from the opposition benches, but it also sounds from the government benches. And the only task we have left is to actually tell each other the date when the county gets the money. That is why our resolution, which the President will read for our parliamentary club, really begins with the most important, and that is to give us a binding position from the government by 15 June this year on how to resolve the situation, including with the formal steps. Then we will be satisfied and I think that this whole House may be satisfied, but above all it will bring certainty to both providers and their employees, which is important, but even more importantly, it will bring certainty to those who are consumers of those social services. It was said here today by my colleague, Mr Rozvoral - I do not want to touch him through the President - that we are having some kind of promotional meeting here. Well, I want to assure you, colleague, that it is not. One commentator said last week, when the press conference was to convene this extraordinary meeting, that opposition clubs were completely incompetent, because if they wanted to use this subject, they should have done it before the European elections, that the meeting was supposed to take place last week just before the European elections. That would be the politics, that would be the politics that, of course, sometimes happens here. We didn't do it because this problem really isn't that political, but it's factual. So I'd like to ask you, members of the government coalition and, in particular, members of the government, to perform here by the mouth of the Vice Prime Minister, who represents the Prime Minister here today, who is duly excused, let us know the practical solution, say that you are actually able to agree on this by the end of this week. We're gonna be happy, we're not gonna perform here, and most importantly, all those social services clients are gonna be happy. And then I will briefly mention that we have expanded the resolutions, and this has also been discussed here today. We really wouldn't want to experience it, and most importantly, we wouldn't want to experience it by those social service providers so that we can meet here in this mode in the autumn at the approval of the state budget and next year again in the spring. That is why we also want the government to actually introduce us to at least the substantive aim of the amendment to the Social Services Act, to introduce us to how it wants to provide multi-source but mainly long-term and predictable funding. And we think we've already called on the Minister to do that on the Social Policy Committee, that we should actually get this in the order of a few weeks, at most months. Dear colleagues, I firmly believe that the outcome of this meeting will not be just a few hours' discussion, but that at the end of this will be the government's commitment to actually financing the necessary CZK 2 billion for the operation of social services this year. It is indeed the interest of citizens of this Republic, but especially of those who are disabled, elderly, but also of people who care for disabled children and others. And I won't forgive myself for one particular case at a time. I have received, and perhaps you have received it, a letter from the Early Care Society, which is a society that covers organizations that care for disabled children and provides them with a very needed early care up to seven years of age, which can prevent many, or at least reduce the serious disability of those children at a later age. They appeal very much to the fact that social services are actually funded, and so do I. mention some of the factors that lead them to do so. Even today, the availability of early care in many regions is far below the European Union standard. And in some regions, an average of 250 days is expected to provide some types of early care. I am convinced that the families of those disabled children do not deserve this, just as families who care for their disabled relatives 24 hours a day do not deserve to live in uncertainty. So I'm begging you, and I'm asking you, let's really come to an agreement - and it's really towards the government - that we're going to finance two billion, and then we won't have to perform here at extraordinary meetings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. And now, with Mrs Richterová's point of fact. That is the only factual point at the moment. Mrs Mračková then. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. Just very fast. I would very much like to poke out the word "prevention," which was said here by my colleague Kaňkovský. Social services are also a matter of saving and not putting out big fires afterwards. I would just like to add that, as early care concerns prevention, I appeal very much to you, the money is exactly the same if we, as parents, wish that our children should have quality primary prevention in primary schools, quality, long-term, according to good standards provided. I spoke with the director of the service who has 15,000 children in his care today, and it is very difficult for small municipalities to finance this long-term primary prevention. So I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that it is not an abstract two billion, but that it is a very concrete prevention of more trouble in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u131	Thank you. And now, Mrs Mračková, for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have waited a long time for this general debate. I know it's almost eight o'clock. Yet I will try to make a summary, because my name from the position of head of the Association of Regions has been bowed down many times here today. And I hope, then, that as there have been some reactions, that some things may well be brought to the right place. At the very beginning, I would like to say one important thing, and that is the number that has been approved under the state budget, and that is the amount that has been approved for social services of 15 720 miles. At this point, I would like to respond to Mr Výborný's contribution through you, when he said here that he was promising that the regions would deny themselves. then agree and receive additional funds. I would like to say that when the state budget was discussed, the regions knew about a 7% increase. They learned about the increase of special fees in February and they did not know about the increase of special fees from 600 crowns to 1880 crowns. This means that when we discussed the state budget, we knew that there would be a 7% increase, and we also thought that the 15 720 miles. all of it will go to the county. Unfortunately, when the money was redistributed, the county, everyone had a direct number, so only 15,120 miles arrived in those regions. This is because the Minister also sets up social services over-regional and 600 miles. is for the services provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have to say that the last time we were here in the Chamber of Deputies and this point was placed, everyone who was performing here used the numbers that the regions needed 4 billion, 3.5 billion, 3 billion, then somehow it was concluded that it had to happen that the regions had to give some output, some numbers because they were based on the numbers first submitted by the Social Commission of the Association of Regions. There I would just like to set the record straight, though my expertise is, because there are all the representatives and councillors from the social field, so they only have a voice of advice. This means that their output then goes to the captains and they will either confirm it or not. We then had a meeting of the Council of the Association of Regions, i.e. all the captains, where then also the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs arrived, where it was agreed that Mrs Iva Stráská, the Governor of the South Bohemia Region, would send a table to all the regions, where we will finally have the number needed to finance the social services of the region after completion of the data. [[20.00 hours]] However, I would just like to say that there are three things in this issue that the Minister has also been talking about today, and that is an increase of 7 percent, extras and individual projects. On this basis, Mrs Iva Stráska and I, when we received back data from all regions, took part in the Social Committee on 2 May, where the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was also present, where the table was already known, and I must say that it was sent to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on that day as well as to individual requirements of individual regions. This means that today there is not only a table where there are all fourteen regions, but there is also a table that is worked out into detailed numbers. However, I have to say that on the Social Committee, when we had a big discussion about this, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs came forward, we came here because we lack 350 million on individual projects, 1.2 billion on salaries, 623 million extras, and she said that the individual projects are 48 million, 379 million on salaries. and special supplements 638 mil. I also wrote in my letter to the Minister that we are ready to meet the numbers. The Minister therefore chose to meet with the Social Commission on 23 May, where in some way, I do not know if they were emasculating into the details of each region, but the Commission's output was that it was really confirmed that the regions should be able to finance social services and require 2 billion. Crowns. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] At the same time, I would also like to point out what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has said here, and this is that she has managed to obtain another 1.5 billion for individual projects. Crowns. I would now like to give you an example from our region where the social services project will end on 31 August in our region. And the social department has come up with the fact that we are still going to submit the project, and it has known for a long time that on 31 August funding from European funds will stop. And here I have to commend the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs very much, because she has won the 1.5 billion, and now it's just about bringing projects to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have to say that it is also taken at the edge: we are still going to give the project and start it on January 1st. And I say, why don't we start it on January 1st when we can start it on September 1st and keep it on paying for European money? So I think there must be a great deal of clarification on this matter from the point of view of why to draw national money when it is possible to draw European money and the Minister has obtained funding for it. And as I got the information from her, the challenge has been open since this year. So it's about making the regions ready for the project and putting the projects in the challenge. I think there would be a great deal of savings, because if we draw European resources, then we may have national resources left. It's complicated because there are three things in that amount. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the table available today, with 2 billion, where the output was prepared by Mrs. Governor from the South Bohemia Region, so I also see that the regions that are no longer satisfied from these outputs, such as the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Ústecký Region. That number, which, for example, for the Moravian-Silesian region is there, does not correspond to what the county requires. And I would also like to say that if the regions were to receive funds, they would not be redistributed according to the requirements of what regions they have in the table today or, if necessary, what they would want. Each region has a direct number and it will be redistributed according to the reference number. So I want to point out that there are big differences, and once again, a number of regions may not be satisfied, because the numbers are really very different. At the same time, I would also like to set the record straight here, which there is much to be said here. I would like to say that the Council of the Association of Regions has already called on the Minister on 28 February to increase payment limits for catering and accommodation services in both field and outpatient services. I will really confirm that there has not been an amendment since 1 January 2014, and I would also like to say that there is the fact that they receive compensation from the point of view of service providers, but some social service providers receiving compensation are in the network, but there are many providers who do not receive any compensation from the region, and they also have to follow the decree. I think that valorisation and amendment of the decree are really necessary and it is confirmed by the Association of Regions and the Commission supports this. And again, from the committee's point of view, they're all deputies and councillors from the social sphere. [[There's still a huge noise in the hall and very poor audibility!]] It was also said here today that, as the President of the Association of Regions fought for the regions to receive funds to repair the roads of the second and third classes, yes, but I would also like to point out that most of the funds went from the Ministry of Transport to the saved reserves that the Ministry of Transport had, and we got it, of course, through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Last week, the Assembly of the Union of Towns and Municipalities took place, where, therefore, on the basis of the outputs that were made there, and in view of the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has unused expenditure and reserve, I am convinced, and it is still that only the minister decides on reserves and unused expenditure. No one can talk about it, the minister decides where the reserves go. I simply believe at this point that these reserves should go to the regions to finance social services. At this point, I will end my contribution and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u133	Thank you. I am pleased that the House has come true, and I would like to call on my colleagues, if necessary, to be more calm. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Výborný, then with a priority right, Minister Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the question here is who Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová spoke for, whether behind the government coalition and the Minister Schillerová, or the Association of Regions, because I am not sure that there really is a consensus here at the level of all the captains and all the regions. There's one thing I want to poke out, because this is where the impression came from that 1.5 billion. for individual projects it is available and that solves the whole problem or significantly reduces the amount. It's not true. Yes, 1.5 billion. is actually available from August, my colleague is right, but the regions are not able to manage this, except maybe one. Finally, the officials at the committee meeting confirmed this. The funding had already been provided by the regions to the providers, because it was clear that the failure from individual projects would be from August 2019. And here, Madam Governor, you well know, through Mr President, that it is not possible to duplicate funding. So individual projects and 1.5 billion. are a great thing, but to finance from 1 January 2020, which gives us some hope that next year's problem, which we are dealing with today, will not be, or will not be so significant, but say that we have 1.5 billion that will solve the problem of 2019, is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u135	Thank you, too. Now, if President Stanjura will allow, we would give the Minister the room to make a point of fact for two minutes. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. I, Mr President, would like to make three points on individual projects from European funds, namely the relocation of 1.5 billion. I think we can agree that even if all regions manage to prepare the projects for the fourth quarter of this year, they still need to finance the three quarters of this year. So that's what we need to be aware of, and that's exactly what we're calculating with, and that's the difference that we've calculated, and that's why we're calculating the two billion. So that's one thing. Second thing. There's a lot of myths going down here about the payment order. The Minister of Finance mentioned one billion crowns. Please, we as the Department of Labour and Social Affairs know the client composition and their income situation. And I say, according to our calculations, an increase in the payment order - and I say it's an antisocial step over the long term, because on the one hand, we've added to seniors in pensions, and on the other hand, we're going to take the money from them by increasing the limits of the payment order, and now I'm not going to repeat all the arguments - it's going to bring about CZK 8 million. Eight million crowns! The composition of the senior income situation must take this into account. That means we agree that this is not a system solution. And the third thing. One more time. I'm not gonna read here again, I said it in my opening words. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not have 6 billion unused expenses. All these things are earmarked for financing European funds, for investing in IT. And you know that by the end of next year we have a transition from the OK system, and I will not jeopardize this transition, then we have funding for care contributions, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u137	Thank you for keeping time. So now some of the facts have passed away, so with Mrs Mračková in fact. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mrs Šlechtová apologizes to us between 20 and 21 o'clock. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u138	Thank you for the floor. Only the response to Mr Výborný through Mr President. I didn't say it would solve the situation. I was just saying what's going on. At the same time, I would like to point out that each region ends these projects, some regions end the projects this year, some regions next year. And it is extremely important for these regions to draw instructions in quotation marks, because as I felt in my region, I was told in the region that we will be able to use European money again from January 1st, and practically after I had a great deal of communication with these people, so we may have succeeded from September 1st. Yes. But it's about the fact that I'm not saying in any way that it solves the situation. I am merely saying that we should make an effort, and that if it is possible to draw the European money, if it is not possible, then, of course, it must be financed in some way, but that we all make an effort to try and draw the European money. Then there was the secretary's comment from the point of view of the reserve. I really believe that the reserve for new IT systems or investment actions, I think that the reserve should go first and foremost to the financing of social services. And I think that the funds should go there as soon as possible, because we have the council in June. And if the money we're gonna get them for as long as we can, it's gonna be like a huge problem getting it to those providers at that point. And about the payment order... [[Attention on time.]] I'd like to say, I'm sorry that there's a limit in terms of... the client's protective limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u139	Thank you, too. And now, therefore, Mrs Richterová, who reported to me from a position some time ago. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u140	I'm just taking the liberty of summing up. We're live here witnessing an ancient dispute between the central government and the county. It's a common thing. Of course, it is not easy to find a good balance between what is paid from headquarters and what is in self-government. But please, over and over again, it's important to remember that there are real hostages here - clients, but also employees. Those who need to be sure that they will have the work they do and the experts for which they are, and those who need care and who cannot help themselves. I just want to remind you very briefly that this is really a matter for two government parties, YES and ČSSD, to agree on how much this dispute, how much of headquarters and how many regions they want to resolve. And I just really appeal to the fact that both our self-government and social services employees and clients deserve a more dignified approach. I would ask that we not treat social care as something that actually resembles a horse market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u141	Mr Bartošek, then Mr Stanjura, has now reported to me with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just for a little while. Given that my expectation that there will be a promise to be funded and two billion to be found here, and I agree that the later the services will be financed, the worse it will be done in the regions, and there is really a struggle with time, there is no choice but for the Chamber of Deputies to stabilise the situation in social services and order the government to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u143	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u144	I originally wanted the facts, but then I figured two minutes wouldn't be enough. It's like a faucet and a chicken. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, claimed by government MPs from the largest government party, from the most important government party, has 6 billion. Madam Secretary is from the least significant side, says he doesn't have the 6 billion. I listened carefully to her opening performance, where she named what she used the $6 billion for. I think there are things that are indisputable, and there are things that are debatable. If Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová says that it is fully in the competence of the Minister or Minister, I agree with her, but then you cannot complain that the Minister has made a decision and created, for example, a reserve for IT systems. I don't know where they went, but they found the $8 billion. They found 8 billion. It's such a shame you'd put two of those eight you found on those social services, so you'd only be looking for two for next year. And you have plenty of time. In May, of the eight you found, you'd put two in social services, the meeting would take 15 minutes. You'd say we found 6.3 billion for next year and we're still looking for 2 billion, don't worry, by the end of September, before we submit a draft state budget to the Chamber of Deputies, we have four months left. And that would be when we found 8 billion in four days so we wouldn't find two in four months. One. The debate is strange because I have been listening to complaints from the regions in recent weeks, and I would say that there is a legitimate issue with the financing of social services. And now the chairman of the Regional Association says such self-criticism, the money is, but we're not ready to draw it. I don't completely understand. In my speech, I said that the contribution organisations are about 45 percent and 55 percent are roughly non-profitable, and they are not, in principle, affected by the meeting of the council within the meaning of the new individual projects. Or should I understand that when you spoke, through the Vice-President, about preparing individual projects, that they will be planned not only by the region of the established organisation but also by non-profit organisations? Then the criticism has to be said in the direction of the nonprofit, if it is true. Of course, I'm not in a position to judge. We are going back to the debate, when Minister Maláčová criticized, for example, the cost of social services from the state budget in the years of our government and forgot, perhaps unintentionally, to add money from individual projects and European money, because it is really important to have the whole amount to have fun. But unfortunately, the debate is such a ping-pong between the CSSD and the ANO movement. We don't really care. We don't really care. [[20.20 hours]] If the secretary again says that raising the payment order, if I paraphrase it a little bit, will end up in a horrible way with those clients, and then he'll say, and the total yield will be 8 million and the clients are 500,000, so something doesn't add up. That's a simple three-piece. If the secretary is right, he says he has analytical outputs from the ministry where they have individual clients, and that any increase would only bring an additional $8 million, so divide it by half a million, how much per client. [[Minister Maláčová: 270 thousand.]] $270,000 is gonna work if I have 500,000 clients and they're gonna give me $8 million, so it's $270,000 per person, okay? [[Minister Maláčová: 270 thousand clients.]] Okay, I'm not gonna argue with the secretary. 270 000 clients are to bring to the system according to the calculations of the MPSV in increasing the payment decree of CZK 8 million, which quickly everyone calculates in their head how much it is on the client, and at the same time tells us that this will significantly endanger the social situation of these clients. That really doesn't add up. Here I see more ideological bias than trying to find a pragmatic and viable solution. It's the maximum amount. It doesn't automatically mean that everyone uses them. I think those directors or directors know very well what their clients are and what their options are. On the other hand, eventually someone has to pay for it. So it's either simple or complicated. Reliance on individual projects at this point in time seems too complicated, too complicated and too risky. And Petr Fiala spoke about it in his opening act. At the amount that sounds huge - 2 billion, but is not really huge in terms of state budget spending. I don't want to criticize other expenses right now, but I think it's quite solvable. And I think if I were to break the dispute, but split it between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I'd say the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is supposed to solve it. I know that most of the spending in the budget there is mandatory expenses, but who else should be the first to go to MPSV than social services clients. Who else? What IT systems? Perhaps then you can find out who has ever retired, so that you can possibly add a pension to the elderly depending on how long they receive an old-age pension. I heard, Madam Secretary, from your predecessor from the same political party three or four years ago here on the microphone, how the IT systems are solved, how the new suppliers are fixed, how the Social Democrats fixed it all, and after four years, I hear the same thing: we're going to deal with IT systems, we're going to compete again, we're going to solve it all. What have you been doing for three or four years, you as Social Democrats? Not you personally, but you, as a political party, are in charge of the resort with the short exception of the first government of Andrej Babiš for almost six years. And you seemed to find marketing interesting, even though the election results didn't show it completely, the password - choose the YES movement: children or banks. That was their password, not ours. But if I applied the same optics, Madam Secretary, when she was supposed to choose between social services clients and IT systems, she chose IT systems!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. And now I have here with Mr. Juránek's point of fact. I'm assuming that Minister Maláčová will need more time than two minutes, so please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u146	I will take the liberty of responding to my colleague Stanjura through the President, and I would like to lighten this atmosphere that is here. I'd like to suggest why the IT systems are really important. You know, that's a very interesting thing. As the oldest person I ever wished for my birthday, she was a 110-year-old lady. And the 110-year-old lady, because she was still able to communicate, I asked her what was the most interesting thing that happened to her and how old it was. And the lady tells me, you know, the most interesting thing was 106 years of age. So we all wondered what we were there for, because what beautiful thing could happen in 106 years of age? And she says, you know, when I was 106, I got an elementary school application. And that's what the legal thing is that we need to support the IT system that has MPSV here so that this matter doesn't happen again, and then the 106-year-olds don't have to go to school again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. And now, then, Minister Maláčová and then President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Just in a little bit. I'm also very happy to explain why these IT systems are important. Although if we were to invest in social services and not invest in IT systems, we might have a problem with social services this year, but it could happen to us next year, because it is part of a larger transition to new systems, that there would be no pension payment, care allowance, sick leave etc. So that's one question. Question two. There is such a rule, which is called care of a proper economy, and if we did not invest this and next year, we would then invest about eight times each year in the coming years. So that's why. As for the $8 million and the payment order, I'm not going to briefly describe it, it's not a simple proportional buy-in number, but it depends on the revenue mix. That's what I was trying to suggest in my previous post. It's 270,000 clients. Not everyone is in a residence facility etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. Mr Vondrák and President Chvojka are now withdrawing with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u150	I'm sorry, I have to step in. I don't think we can pay all those pensions or anything. thanks to the fact that we wouldn't wait a while to switch to a new IT system. Don't be mad at me, I just don't believe it. And here I would also like to say to clarify the questions that have been raised here. We're here to finance the entire social network, not just the contribution organizations of our region, because there's no other way. We just can't leave these nonprofits without support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u151	Thank you, too. At the moment, these are all factual points, as President Stanjura is still interested in the performance. Please, in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u152	I agree with Mr Vondrák, of course, and I also spoke about this in my opening speech, but the question to the Minister was completely different from what she answered. When three or four years ago, and if you give me five minutes, I'll find it in the tapestry from that meeting, your predecessor from your political party told me that you've solved it, that there are new IT systems, that it's not true that two systems are deployed side by side and that two systems are being paid, so I'm asking if you weren't telling the truth then or today. If you have successfully replaced them all, modernised them, put them into operation in 2015 or 2016, I do not understand with which care the proper economic operator is dealing with the same in 2019 and 2020. And he just can't talk out of that responsibility for the resort! And when we repeatedly intersected here and asked about IT systems issues in the last parliamentary term, at that time the ministers for social democracy, not only the Minister, said, these are alarm messages, that's not true, we competed everything, everything is fine. I recommend that we look into the screen recordings, for example, at the moment when Mr Běhounek proposed a special IT system to the law, which we have now postponed after years because it is not done. And that's when I asked Secretary Marksová if there were new information systems. And the answer was yes, we competed everything. Anyone who wants to read the SAO's report that it wasn't true. So don't answer me like you're evasive. Maybe you do the same thing every year. I think that if we looked at the MPSV work plan between 2015 and 2016 and this year and the next, only the date is different because the tasks remain the same. I don't want to downplay the debate, it really could have been very simple. And I don't know, so who's gonna promise those two billion now? There are only three members of the government left, so I would assume that either the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs or the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Health will promise it. I'm not saying you're supposed to make it out of your departmental budgets, but that's what the meeting was about, and we made it very clear at the beginning that it's supposed to be some kind of pressure to resolve this quickly. And we're still watching the ping-pong that's behind it. Finance, MPSV. We don't really want to judge, but the primary responsibility lies with the MPSV. I think it's pretty obvious. And I'm sure you won't suspect me of any political affection for the YES movement. I don't think my colleagues in the movement or the secretary will suspect me of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u153	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Bartošek's factual comment, then I have received the report from the rapporteur Excellent. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u154	Thank you. Just for the record, we're not dealing with IT, we're not dealing with the construction of a new IT system. Please, we're dealing with two billion in social services. Let's cut to the chase, let's close it, let's adopt a resolution. And whether to accept or not to accept, let's decide, let's figure out how to finance social services. That's what this is about today. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u155	Thank you. Now, therefore, the rapporteur, the Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u156	Thank you for the floor. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am disappointed because last week I foolishly thought that the European elections would help us and that sometime within the week someone will come and that there is only a question of who gets the cream, and that last week someone from the government, probably the Prime Minister or Madam Secretary, will come and say: yes, two billion are, here you have them. Hey, it didn't happen. Then I foolishly thought that today's meeting would take a matter of minutes for the Secretary of Finance to perform, she and her ANO movement with the Prime Minister will be the winners and say, "Hey, we found two billion, it really isn't much - I was amused by the notion that this is one-seventh of one hundredth of the state budget, as it was said here this afternoon - and we're getting out of it. Hey, it didn't happen. I have a feeling that here the desire for a sisterly duel and a struggle within the government has triumphed. But ladies and gentlemen, those grandmothers, those handicapped, those autistics, those moms in the shelters, they really don't give a shit. They don't give a shit about it, and they don't really care about any political issues inside the government coalition. They want to know whether or not they're gonna have those services since September. And you've been here for four and a half hours again today, showing that you don't actually know what you want, and that simple step, saying that we have the minimum amount ready here, the regions will get it, and they can administer it and forward it to social service providers, that you can't even take that minimum step. So I would like to ask you now, when the various resolutions are being loaded, so well that the government, through the mouth of either secretary, has not been able to say it clearly, on the microphone and publicly, so that we can impose on that government within a time frame which corresponds to what is still real, so that those I have mentioned here, that they actually have the certainty, so that we can impose it on that government. That is what the Chamber of Deputies is for, and the government is responsible for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u157	Thank you, too. At this point, I have no factual remarks or any applications for debate, so if no one is reporting from the point of view, I am ending the debate. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word after the general debate at the moment. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u158	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask for a break on behalf of the ČSSD MEP's club by 21.00. And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u159	Please note that we voted after 21 o'clock... that the vote did not pass after 21 o'clock, so that would be the end. Is the rapporteur claiming priority rights? [[Noise and debate in the hall.]] President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u160	I would like to vote here, Mr President, on when the meeting will be interrupted in that case. Now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-29-ps2017-031-01-001-001.u161	I'm afraid I can't do that anymore. In that case, because the ČSSD MP took a break, after which we could no longer act today, this meeting is adjourned. At this point, there is no agreement on when it should be continued. I'll see when I can find the right deadline. Not today, we're definitely not going to continue today. We'll meet again tomorrow at 9:00. And I think there is nothing to prevent us from continuing this meeting, for example, tomorrow after written interpelations. I think that would be an appropriate term. Thank you. I'll meet you tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when the proper meeting will continue. And we would set up this meeting on Thursday after the written interpelations of the proper meeting. Thank you.
