ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-014-126.u1	126. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach Protocol on the elimination of illicit trafficking in tobacco products of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control 215/ - second reading I beg the Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-014-126.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Chamber of Deputies is presented for second reading a proposal for the accession of the Czech Republic to the Protocol on the elimination of illicit trafficking in tobacco products by the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control of the World Health Organisation. This Protocol has been signed by 54 parties to that Framework Convention, including the European Union, and is currently ratified by 51 countries. Therefore, the condition for the entry into force of the Protocol, which took place on 25 September 2018, has already been fulfilled. For the Czech Republic, the Protocol will enter into force on the 90th day following the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification. In October 2018, the first convening meeting of the Parties to the Protocol was held. As is already apparent from the name itself, the aim of the Protocol is to combat illicit trafficking in tobacco products. The most important benefits of the Protocol are the introduction of a comprehensive system of control of the supply chain with tobacco products and tobacco, including its cultivation, and equipment used for the manufacture of tobacco products. An important part of this system is the introduction of a global monitoring regime to be established within five years of the entry into force of the Protocol. This scheme will allow the movement of tobacco products to be monitored from the moment they are manufactured after their sale to the final consumer. The system will contribute significantly to minimizing illicit practices with tobacco products. Manufacturers and traders of tobacco products will be obliged to keep records and cooperate with the authorities controlling such goods, which will reduce the possibility of smuggling tobacco products and facilitate investigations into any related criminal offences. Accession to the Protocol will have a positive impact in terms of greater transparency and control of the entire journey of tobacco products from the manufacturer through retail outlets to the consumer himself and, consequently, a greater possibility of combating illicit trade in such products. Furthermore, the positive impact of increasing revenue to the state budget can be expected, in the context of the assumption that more cases of breaches of customs and tax regulations are detected and the resulting elimination of circumvention of the proper payment of excise duties and duties. The Protocol is an initiative of the European Union which, in the context of the World Health Organisation's negotiations, proposed its development and was the main actor in its preparation. The European Union ratified the Protocol in June 2016. Member States are already de facto bound by this ratification to implement most of the provisions of the Protocol. To this end, the European Union has adopted implementing directives bringing the legislation of the Member States closer together. Moreover, through access to the Protocol, the Czech Republic will take over commitments that will not be implemented through European Union legislation. However, existing national legislation already provides sufficient support for the implementation of new commitments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-014-126.u3	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. Mr Jan zahradník apologizes for the afternoon meeting for personal reasons, and Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 13:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. I would now ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, to justify the resolution of the Committee, which was delivered as the House Press 215/1, and to introduce us to him. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-014-126.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Foreign Committee dealt with this press again at its 26th meeting on 21 February and after the justification of Deputy Minister of Finance Ing. Mgr Stanislav Kouba, Jaroslav Bžoch's intelligence report, and following the debate, the Foreign Committee adopted a resolution: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives consent to access to the Protocol on the elimination of illicit trafficking in tobacco products of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control; [[12.40 hours]] II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-014-126.u5	Thank you. I'm opening a debate that I don't have anyone registered to, so I'll look around. No one's logged in, no one's checking in. I'm done with the conversation. I ask for final words, if necessary. The rapporteur, Madam Secretary? You're not interested. We will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. We'll wait a little while, in case someone's out of the O.R. I think we know what we are voting on - the motion for a resolution tabled by the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 87. Registered 144 Members, for 113, versus zero. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this press. We'll move on to the next press. This is the point
