ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to sign in or tell me who votes with the replacement card. At this point, I have a report that Mr Bartoš votes with a replacement card number 10. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence at the hearing: Ivan Adamec - working grounds, Jiří Běhounek within 17 hours - working reasons, Marek Benda without giving any reason, Ondřej Benešík - health reasons, Marian Bojko - health reasons, Jan Farskýý within 16 hours - working reasons, Petr Gazdík - health reasons, Květa Matušovská - family reasons, Radka Maxová - working reasons, Petr Pávek - foreign travel, Marie Pěnčíková - working reasons, Ivo Pojezný - working reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Bohuslav Svoboda until 16.30 - working reasons, Lucie Šafránková within 15 hours - working reasons, Kateřina Valachová - family reasons, Petr Venhoda from 15.30 to 16.30 - working grounds, Tomáš Vymazal - health reasons. The members of the government apologize: Karel Havlíček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - health reasons. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. It is proposed - paragraph 49, House press 162 - Proposal by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Věra Kovářová, Vít Kaňkovskýý and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, first reading, to place firmly on Wednesday 19 June after the already fixed points at 14.30. On Thursday, June 20, we will discuss paragraph 237 - written interpelation. Then we will continue the negotiations in 10 hours by discussing points in order: 223, House printing 455 - Report on the activities of the Czech Technical Agency for 2018, paragraph 19, House printing 409 - Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on roads, second reading, and paragraph 235, House document 2875 - Proposals by the Chamber of Deputies for the Rent or Grant of State Awards. Then we would discuss points from the news block, suggestions and more. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now, if necessary, those Members who have a proposal to amend the approved agenda may appear. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. I have tried to scream you, but when the individual Members speak, I ask for peace of mind to hear what they are proposing. After President Faltýnek, Vice-President Pikal. Thank you again and I ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. Allow me, on behalf of our club, to propose one amendment to the agenda, as I have already announced on the Gremium, with a slight adjustment, which responds to the press conference by you, Mr President, by Mr Michálek. Although I would like to propose a firm inclusion of a point from the block of the laws returned and rejected by the Senate, item number 10, this is House Press 241 - The proposal for a law on promoting sport, as the sixth point of today's day, that is to say, after the already firmly listed points 216, 220 and 1, 2 and 3. Point 3 is a register of contracts, so that it is fixed after this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. Then another with priority rights, Vice-President Pikal. Then President Excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I didn't want to use priority rights, but I'm not gonna mess it up. I would like to ask purely for the inclusion of a point of change in the composition of the House of Deputies on Wednesday at 12.55. We have a new MP, we want to put him on trial, so let's make this quick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u5	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Výborný. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] If you have something really urgent, please discuss it in the lobby so we can hear each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to ask for a new point at the meeting of today's Chamber of Deputies, a point called Social Services Financing and a real situation. I'm asking for the first item on today's agenda. If this House of Deputies does not approve, then I ask you to vote on a solid inclusion for today at 18.30. Let me briefly justify the reason for this point. Unfortunately, I have to say that the result of these negotiations and what they presented here in the theatre performance for the past Friday, Minister Maláčová and Minister Schillerová, is a matter which, even that day, has endured a very negative reaction directly from the field, from social services providers, from regional representatives and cities, because what has been played here is far from what was originally required by the Chamber of Deputies, in order to ensure the government's financing of social services amounting to 2 billion. from the state budget. Unfortunately, the reality is such - and I must say that in this, even the captains present here will give me the truth, if you look at the reactions of the Governor for the ANO movement from the Moravian-Silesian Region, as well as the Social Democratic Governor from the Pardubice Region, it is absolutely, absolutely obvious. The government only made half the promise. Yes, one billion, half from Minister Schillerová, half from Minister Maláčová, indeed promised to provide social services providers across the region. However, the other half, and that's exactly what doesn't fit the reality anymore, that's what's in the quotation marks of 1.5 billion. individual projects. The reality is that this 1.5 billion. is calculated for three years, i.e. anyone who can count, so he calculates that for this year it is only half a billion, and most importantly, and this is important, this money cannot really go to social service providers at all, for one simple reason that only social prevention projects can be financed from individual projects. This means homes for seniors and other residence facilities will simply remain dry. These people aren't going to be taken care of since November, 'cause we're counting on that one billion, so there's no one to take care of. If I took the law here, I could quote you on what is the duty of the state, as much as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I can also quote you on exactly what can be theoretically, even if they happen to be able to administer it, the one and a half billion, so what can you just use it for? So at this point, I would very much like to hear the clear position of the government, Prime Minister, Minister Maláčová, on the situation that has arisen here, as well as the statements made by the deputy generals and councillors responsible for the social area, because that sounds very clear in their statement of 11 June. And we will also propose a resolution in which we ask the Government to ensure that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, led by Jana Maláčová by the end of June at the latest, provides the state budget with the missing funds of 2 billion. CZK for the financing of social services, because the solution proposed by the Minister on 7 June, to which the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Association of Regions have applied theatrically, which, of course, does not represent the interests of the regions, but rather its own movement, is a solution of partial, not really necessary. [[14.10 hours]] It's very simple. We've just been kind of cheated around here. Press conference - the point was placed at 13.30, previously a press conference, so that service providers - look at the opinion of Prague 10, Mr Horecký, look at the opinion of the Association of Regions, it is absolutely obvious. This isn't about us or some political struggle here in the House, this is about the needy ones who really need the money. You all know that. Who are you mayors, who are the captains here, you know very well what I'm talking about. It's about standing up to it and not wiggling around like the government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u7	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anyone with priority rights. Mr Bauer's written application, then Mr Bartoň, has priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let me propose that I place a new proper point at the current 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I propose to include this new point on Thursday this week as the first point after the fixed points. This item is entitled Implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 31 May this year on social services. Maybe I'd just fluently follow up on my previous speaker. You must all know that the Chamber of Deputies has called in vain in recent weeks for a solution to social services. It is certainly not a futile call, the only one, because we have a permanent solution to this on the Social Policy Committee as well, and we are also addressing calls to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Government to address, among other things, the support of families with children. I just want to refresh your memory. On 31 May of this year, this Chamber of Deputies adopted a total of twelve resolutions concerning not only the current crisis situation in the context of the financing of social services, but also other, other resolutions. I think it is our fundamental duty to ask the Government to ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs how this resolution is being dealt with and how it is being implemented. Among other things, we have adopted a resolution that by 7 June 2019 a proposal for financing social services will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. As we have heard the agreement here in the last few days, from my point of view, rather delusion, even this motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Among other things, the Chamber of Deputies has agreed to call on the Social Policy Committee to submit a substantive proposal to the Government amendment to the Social Services Act by 25 June this year. That too, I think, is a very important subject that we should be dealing with. Among other things, among the twelve resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies, it is a task for the government to instruct the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit an analysis of the multi-source financing of social services so far, which we also do not have until now. I think that not only the Government or the representatives of the Government, but also the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will have sufficient time to prepare for the answers and for the implementation of this resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say that this is not a classic dispute between the opposition and the government, virtually. between the opposition and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is a dispute between the Chamber of Deputies, among us who have adopted a resolution and on 12 points we have entrusted the government, virtually. The Department of Labour to deal with it in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u9	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Ondřej Veselý apologizes from 17.20 until the end of today's meeting day, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes today within 17 hours for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Levová apologises from 14 to 15 o'clock due to a doctor's visit, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from the afternoon meeting due to a foreign business trip. Mr Bartoň.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a counterproposal on the proposal by President Faltýnek, who proposed the inclusion of a refund from the Senate of the Sport Support Act as a sixth point, i.e. on door number three. I would suggest that it be one later, i.e. to be ranked as the seventh point, i.e. the back of the Senate four, i.e. the inland navigation law. In short, my reasoning. The inland navigation law concerns watercoaches. The water season has already begun and the watermen are still dry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u11	Thank you. I see this as another proposal for inclusion, which we will vote on, so it is not counterproposal, it is a different proposal for inclusion. With priority rights, Mr. Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u12	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Dear Government, colleagues, I would like to propose the inclusion of a new point on Thursday morning, possibly following the point proposed by Mr Bauer, that is, after the points already firmly assigned, or after the point which we will be voting on. That point would be called Continuing Illegal Activities of the Financial Administration. Last week, from open sources, from the media, not just me, but I believe that many of you have learned that the famous company, which the Prime Minister said his co-workers had been kneeling on it, has finally won most of their litigations with the Financial and Customs Administration, and to this day we have not seen any liability for this illegal procedure of the Financial Administration. The fact that the former Director or Managing Director of the Financial Administration holds an important role at this time as Director of the Financial Administration of the South Bohemia Region is not a result of any liability. At the same time, I have learned from the media again, and I think that not only me, but also you, that the Financial Administration ignores the Constitutional Court's decision by mouth to its new CEO. So imagine what would have happened if the Constitutional Court's decision had not been respected, for example, by the government or by the Chamber of Deputies. For the sake of clarification, the Constitutional Court has ruled that if the Financial Administration is suing one of the tax entities or wants to sue for some part of the VAT at issue, the Financial Administration has the right to retain the money only in the amount of the part at issue and not in the whole of VAT. That's what the Constitutional Court decided. And what was the reaction of the Financial Administration? They continue to practice holding the total part. I'd like the Secretary of Finance to explain it to us, which Department of Financial Administration belongs to. That is why I propose Thursday, so that the Minister has sufficient time to get the documents from the Financial Administration and to defend, or not defend, the Financial Administration procedures. So the questions that we would like to know on Thursday are quite clear: what responsibility will be drawn for the illegal procedure of the Financial Administration in cases where the final decision by the court has already been made on this illegal conduct? Second, how it is possible that the Financial Administration ignores the Constitutional Court's decision. I will repeat - Thursday after the fixed points, or after the point proposed by Mr Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u13	Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u14	I would like to raise the veto on the inclusion of a new point by my colleague Stanjura on behalf of ANO clubs, Social Democracy and KSČM.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-000-000.u15	Thank you. I'm asking who's next on the agenda. I don't see anybody, so we're going to deal with the proposals, as they've been said over and over again. Mr Faltýnek proposed item number 10, House press 241, the law on promoting sport, to include today as the sixth point after point 3. [[There are objections.]] Sorry, first of all, we will vote on the proposal from the Gremium. We will vote on the proposal from the Gremium, as I said at the beginning. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 932, logged in 177, for 175, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. [[There are objections from the O.R.]] There. First of all, there was Mr. Faltýnek's proposal - point 10... [[A note from the hall that the President was wrong to comment on the result of the vote.]] And I said it wasn't? I'm sorry, I'm reading the next one. Excuse me. [[14.20 hours]] So President Faltýnek proposed paragraph 10, press 247, to include as the sixth point, law on the promotion of sport returned to the Senate, after point number three. [[correct 241]] There was then a counterproposal from Mr Bartoň to include him as the seventh point for point four. So, first of all, we will vote on Mr Bartoň's counter-proposal to include the Sports Support Act as the seventh point today after item four. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 933 entered 178, for 48, against 92. The motion was not accepted. We will vote on the same point 10, print 244, to be ranked as the sixth point after point three. [[correct 241]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 934 entered 178, for 102, against 30. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal from Vice-President Pikal to make a point of change in the composition of the institutions The Chamber of Deputies was placed on Wednesday at 12.55 pm. We'll vote twice. First, on the inclusion of this item as a new item on the agenda. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 935 entered 178, for 143, against no one. We've placed a new point. And so now we're going to vote on his solid inclusion this Wednesday at 12.55 o'clock. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 936 vote, 179, for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal from President Excellent to include a new point called Social Services Financing and the Real Situation. Am I expressing this well? So first of all, the inclusion of this new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 937 entered 179, for 99, against 1. The motion was accepted. We've placed a new point. And now we will vote on two possibilities of inclusion. First of all, the first point of today's negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 938 entered 179, for 61, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is an alternative proposal for this point to be included today at 6:30 p.m. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 939 registered 179, for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted. There is also Mr Bauer's proposal on the inclusion of a new item entitled Implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 31. 5. 2019 on social services. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote 940 entered 179, for 81, against 6. The motion was not accepted. This item was not included on the agenda. We voted on pan Bartona, and the veto of three parliamentary clubs was raised on Mr Stanjura's counterproposal. This has dealt with all the proposals that have been made so far. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. The next point that awaits us is the point at which Mr. Jiří Rusnok, Governor of the Czech National Bank, is necessary or appropriate. Therefore, before we proceed to discuss the fixed points, it is necessary to vote in accordance with § 52 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Initiating vote. I ask, who is in favour of the governor's participation in the meeting? Who's against it? In the 941 vote, 179, for 176, against no one. The motion was accepted. So let me welcome the governor to our Chamber of Deputies. And I'm opening point number
