ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u1	226. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic to address the crisis situation on the D1 motorway We could proceed by speaking first with an authorised representative of the Government, but on the basis of the agreement I will now give the floor to the appellant, this is Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who will state this point. After that, the Minister of Transport will Ťok. I assume that Mr Kaňkovský will subsequently be willing to become rapporteur on this point. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u2	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We have already asked for the inclusion of an extraordinary item to discuss the crisis situation on the D1 motorway at the December meeting. This was in immediate connection with the crisis situation that occurred in the period from 10 December last year. As you well know, the item was placed at the meeting, however, its discussion did not subsequently take place. I would like to stress that the ambition that we still insist that this item should be discussed does not only reflect the crisis situation that has occurred in that week since 10 December, but I admit that it was the last straw that led us to believe that we should talk about this crisis situation and about all the contexts here in the Chamber of Deputies. In my view, it is necessary to start by telling ourselves what value human health is to us and what value human life is to us. I am convinced of this, and I firmly hope that for every Member and for every legislator, human life and human health are the highest value. Or at least one of the highest values. And if there is a gambling that really has been the catastrophic situation on the D1 motorway during that period, I am convinced that it is really necessary to think about it, openly and factually discuss it and to look for solutions to prevent such a situation from happening again, or at least to minimise the risks that such a situation may not occur. I also want to say that the ambition of the KDU-ČSL is not to pursue the head, and now I mean it figuratively, Minister Tžok, is in the hands of the Prime Minister, but we really want to discuss what has been happening on the D1 motorway in recent months and years. This means that we want to discuss aspects of the extensive reconstruction of the D1 motorway with everything that has to do with it. As I have already mentioned, the last straw to ask for consideration was the situation mentioned between 10 and 13 December last year. At the beginning it was the decision of the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways that the closure, which the Ministry of Transport decides on motorways and thus the administrative body, will be allowed until the winter period, i.e. originally until 16 December last year. I want to say that in the course of the summer and autumn, as I have reports from the Police of the Czech Republic and from the Fire Rescue Corps and experts, both the Road and Motorway Directorate and the Ministry of Transport have been warned that this is a risk, and that if the company does not make it to the beginning of the winter period, there will be problems in the most climatically complex section of the D1 motorway. It should also be noted that the section that was planned there had 14 kilometers in the original version. It was between the 91st and 105th kilometers in both directions of the highway. At the beginning, the central corridor began to be repaired at that first stage, when the central guardrails were removed and the selected company began to reconstruct the networks. And in both directions, both in the direction of Brno and in the direction of Prague, there was a narrowing to two incomplete lanes. Personally, I consider that decision only in the light of the fact that it was such a long stretch to be at risk. I don't want to argue about whether it was possible or not. We know from abroad that sometimes they repair longer sections there. But what I consider to be underestimating the situation is that on this relatively long section there were both detachable areas and solutions to the possible approach of the integrated rescue system. And this was a problem not only during the winter season, but this problem in that section was long before winter began. Now I would briefly sum up. You know well that the reconstruction started already during 2018. The selected company according to some - and we can discuss this, of course, and I know that the complexity of the tender also affects transport constructions, and I have to say here that I do not envy the Minister at all, but references to the company were not the best. Therefore, during the early autumn there were serious doubts that the reconstruction by the start of the winter period would be so managed that it would be possible, as is customary, to clear the winter season in both directions of the motorway without restrictions. As I said before, experts pointed out the problem, the Police of the Czech Republic pointed them out, and the Fire Rescue Corps pointed them out. And here we have to ask whether the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways really perceived the problem that way. Again, I understand that the Minister and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways were bound by a valid contract. That is, of course, an essential matter. However, and again, I have to stress here - what is higher? The price of human life, or the contract in force, and the possible problems that would arise if it were to become untied? That's what we need to say in this debate. What happened in the week from 10th to 13th, it was actually even longer, but in those three days from 10th to 13th December? The situation began on Monday, when climate conditions began to change. And I'm not going to forgive myself here, and I hope the Minister doesn't take it extremely neatly, but to say that we didn't expect snow in December and that the snow that came wasn't ordinary snow, but it was a calamity of snow, so I'm afraid the public wouldn't really accept that argument. I'm from the Highlands, so I know the climate conditions in the Highlands. We fought with the snowstorm not so many years ago in the end of October. That means the snow in the Highlands is coming. And if you realize what section the limited part is actually in, for example, there. There was also a calamity in 2008. This means that this really is a climate- very disadvantageous area where the weather changes very often. Very often there are sudden climate changes. Therefore, I stress that it was an ill-considered decision by the Ministry of Transport that it allowed restrictions on operation even to the winter period. And we also need to be honest that the permit was until December 16th. I was on that stretch this morning. The Ministry of Transport, after the criticism that came to it, and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways actually took a number of measures, thank the Minister for that. But there's no way we can judge it that we're actually out there and that nothing can happen at this point. What's the situation today? During the period before Christmas, work began to at least shorten that section, i.e. At this point, it's not 14 kilometers, but only 10. But I'm just saying that very much in quotation marks. There was a shift of approximately 30, 40 centimeters in the remaining section of the 10 kilometers. Yes, the situation has improved. After all, these are already full-fledged or not completely full-fledged, but definitely wider stripes. It's definitely less complicated for the maintenance of the highway. However, from the point of view of those risks, when the weather situation changes or when there is an accident on this section, this measure mitigated the risks only very slightly. [[18.10 hours]] Again, I must point out that there are no parking lots or parking areas in this section. Today we could say that there are some, because they're there in those concrete ligaments where in the event of a crash, someone can shut down the car for a while, but for the intervention of an integrated rescue system, there are simply no safety zones. And it needs to be said that winter is not over, we are half or halfway through January, and we may still have a few climate changes by the end of winter. For this reason, I would like to call on the Ministry of Transport - and I firmly hope that in his contribution, the Minister will introduce us to what steps he is planning further on this section, and I urge that this situation be dealt with urgently. I could see again today that there's work to be done, there's work to be done on the whole section, there's various steps at this point, but to the point where the section would be completely cleared, I think it's still a long way away. Maybe the Minister has some information on how much longer this is going to take. However, I appeal to the situation to be resolved as soon as possible, because otherwise we can again encounter the calamity situation, climate change can come tonight, in a week, it really cannot be estimated. So, at the beginning of this point, I would like to ask the Minister to inform us about why this situation has occurred, why, despite informing the experts, it has been closed to that extent, i.e. at the length of 14 kilometres and for the period up to 16 December, with the prospect that it would not be affected anyway, why the Ministry of Transport, as an administrative body, gave its consent. I'd take that as question number one. Then I would like to ask what impacts and what outputs the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways will make of this, both short-term ones, i.e. what it will do at this moment to resolve this situation as quickly as possible, but what measures it will take towards the future, so that on other reconstructed sections not only the D1 motorway but also other backbone networks in our Republic will minimize the risks that have occurred on this section. And here we can talk about what to do with the ill-advised and often incorrect behaviour of carriers - and here I mean especially truck traffic. It is necessary to ask whether we are able to take an example from abroad and actually plan those reconstructions so that after short sections there are those stand-off areas and minimize the risk that when the crash occurs, the whole highway will stop. And especially to always bear in mind the possibility of an integrated rescue system arriving, because, of course, by day somewhere there is somewhere able to land a helicopter, but at night and in winter it is often not possible. And just to zoom in on that night on December 13th. On December 13, more than 30 kilometers [30 km] were formed there within a few hours. It was freezing. In those columns were crowds of passenger cars, but there were a number of tour buses and regular buses. I got a call from two people from our region, and then I got a few more text messages. And among other things, one of those people stood up for a bus with 56 children on it. The kids were there for six hours, the kids didn't have fluids, they didn't have food. Yes, the bus was drowning, that's probably all they could do for the kids at the time. Of course, the kids were communicating with their parents, who said, well, somehow they're gonna get you out of here... But how? They were about halfway through that column. And I have, I must say, contacted the Minister on the one hand, but repeatedly also Mr. Governor Běhounek, and only after we got in touch with the management of the regional fire department, so after two hours the firemen were able to get to them and at least deliver them fluids and some food. And after about another 1.5 hours, the bus got to a convention near Humpolec, and the children continued home. In total, they spent about 11 hours there. And there were so many more buses. Let's try to put ourselves in the position of the people who were on that highway. I guess we've all had that before on an unmanaged stretch. It's always very uncomfortable, and it's never anyone's fault. But here we really underestimated the risks. And we can be glad that there was no serious disability and that no one died there. That's what needs to be said. And it must also be said that those people who were there - there were seniors, then we found out that there were at least two buses with children, which means that the situation was very, very complicated, very heated. And if we don't deal with this and we don't want to hear it, this situation can happen again if we don't get to D1, so on some other spinal communication. This means, here I would like the Minister to really think about it and to present us with a plan of both legislative and non-legal steps to ensure that future reconstruction of the backbone networks is carried out in a different way, so that those risks, especially in terms of possible security, can be minimized. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I'm sure we could discuss all the other aspects that accompany the unhappy situation in terms of the reconstruction of our backbone networks. I think it's probably beyond this evening, so at this point, I'd like to leave my word to the Minister to give us a look at the situation. I firmly believe that, in addition to the retrospective, we will also be presented with measures that are ready to take in the future. I firmly believe that it will also calm the citizens who were really upset by the situation. And I have to say, a lot of people have been doing this around Christmas, because there really were thousands that were there that night. Finally, when the debate takes place, we have prepared a resolution which will be distributed to you in individual parliamentary clubs. It is, of course, a resolution for discussion. I would like to ask, and then I would like to ask, that we vote this resolution after the points, so that everyone can freely decide which part of the resolution he is willing to raise his hand to. Above all, the outcome of this discussion should not be a political skirmish, but the real planning of legislative and non-legal steps that prevent gambling on Czech roads and motorways from the point of view of reconstruction and other work carried out on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u3	Thank you. Before opening the general debate, an authorised representative of the Government, who is logically Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, will speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to discuss the situation a little calmly and factually. I can see what Mr Kaňkovský, through Mr President, has said here. I just want to start by saying two things. Please, let's not create a public feeling that driving on the D1 motorway is some kind of gamble or situation that can't survive. Because from those emotional expressions that I've often heard, it seems like we have something completely insane that hasn't been anywhere in the world. I just want to say that the D1 motorway is being repaired or upgraded in a way that modernized the so-called Hitlerův Motorway by the Němec from Dresden to Berlin. They did it pretty much the same way, and we copied it from them more or less. So I'm gonna try to get back to the whole subject. I very much appreciate that there is an opportunity to clarify some of the issues surrounding the modernization of the D1 motorway, including what happened in the middle of December of last year on the modernised section 12. Around the calamity of 12th to 13th December, many myths and half really spread either out of ignorance or deliberately in order to use the situation politically. I understand this is a good opportunity. The driver was upset, many were stuck there for many hours. And I am, of course, sincerely sorry, and I apologize to all those who have had unpleasant moments there. In addition to political proclamations, however, we should also use this opportunity to explain further the circumstances of modernization of the D1 motorway, to clarify what really happened on the modernised section number 12 between Humpolec and Větrný Jeníkov, after all, and what can be done to avoid similar situations in the future. [[18.20 hours]] The modernization of the D1 motorway began on 9 May 2013. At that time the construction companies went into the first two sections of Větrný Jeníkov - Jihlava and Lhotka - Velká Bíteš. Until my arrival at the Ministry, these work took place very slowly. After a year and a quarter in the summer of 2014, not a single section was completed. When I came to the Ministry, my goal was to fundamentally speed up the modernisation of the D1 even at the cost of more restrictions for the driver, but the highway would sooner be completed. Of the twenty modernized sections with a total length of 161 km between Mirošovice u Prahy and Kývalka u Brna, 13 are currently operational, which is 90 km of new motorway, and is under construction 21 km. Drivers are limited and troubled. And I understand them. But there is the construction of a new highway underway, by the way, a highway that has been over ten years in its lifetime and should have been upgraded by now. In addition to the fact that the modernization of the D1 motorway began with a huge delay at a time when it had already practically started to fall apart and in many places it was not transitable without restrictions, it must also be noted that the capacity of this motorway is far from ideal and often the load of truck transport is not enough. For many years, the equation has been true here: worsening climate conditions plus accident or failure equals traffic chaos or collapse for long hours. There is no way that the problems on D1 have started with modernization, or even with Minister Took. For many years, we also know that the only way to lighten D1 is to complement it with a parallel route of the D35 motorway. We know that, but no one's done much for it. We started building it practically only now and in the spring of this year it will be built 27 km of this highway D35. Further construction will certainly help to change the laws, especially Act No. 416 on speeding up construction. One novel has already been approved. We've got the second one set up in the interdepartment. Although the first one was approved as a parliamentary initiative, I would like to remind some Members who call it their own that it was also prepared for the Ministry of Transport. Another option to lighten D1 would be to expand it by one lane in each direction. Minister Šimonovský of the KDU promised such an extension, by the way, in response to major traffic accidents, as early as 2005. The construction was supposed to start in 2007 and the completion was promised for 2010. If Minister Šimonovský had at least started buying land, the highway could have really started to modernize on a six-track. Unfortunately, it remained only with empty promises, as did the thousands of new parking spaces for trucks that were promised by 2007. The absence of purchased land is the reason why the D1 motorway began to modernize with an extension of 75 cm in each direction in 2013. And he was a colleague of Stanjura who started this - and I don't criticize him at all - pay God at least for it, because otherwise there was a real threat that we would put a ban on the entrance and not go on the freeway. But let's leave the past behind. Let us now look at the modernisation of section 12 between Humpolec and Větrný Jeníkov, where the Italian-Czech-Kazaš consortium formed by the companies Toto Costruzioni Generali, Geosan and SP Sine Midas Stroy won the public contract. At this point I have to repair one very popular and often repeated myth. It is not true that there has already been an error in the selection of this consortium, as it has decided exclusively the price. Indeed, the Public Procurement Act, which was effective at the time the contract was published, put great emphasis on the price. Of course, other criteria had to be met. And ŘSD, and it is possible to look up in the articles of that time, in the media, for a long time to check whether the consortium had made a mistake in the offer or whether some of the appropriations in the budget were too low. Here, I'd like to say that the evaluation took eight months. Overall, the preparation of the offer was four months, so eight months this competition was evaluated before the contract was made. The fact is that the offer was the lowest but not enough to be an extremely low bid price at which this consortium could be excluded from the competition under the law. I would just say that the first three prizes, or the first three candidates, were in the range of 10% and the difference between the first and the second was less than five percent. So it certainly wasn't the cheapest section we competed and we realized. For the modernisation of the 14 km long section of the association required CZK 1.748 billion, which was CZK 300 million less than the estimated price. At the time, there was nothing special when companies made offers even more advantageous. After all, according to the SAO's findings, he wondered why in the first stage of modernisation from 2013 it had been built cheaper than in 2016. Simply put, we followed the law in force at the time, and it gave us no opportunity to grant a contract to upgrade section 12 to the winning consortium. In this context, it is also good to recall that the public contract continues to be governed by the law under which it was competing, even though it has changed in the meantime. We have a new law on public procurement. It is quite possible that according to him this consortium would no longer have received the contract. But they're only if they have no practical impact. Everyone already knows that the modernisation of section 12, which was launched by the consortium in 2018, began to slip. But that's nothing special. The initial delay was accompanied by the start and start of work on more modernized sections. The ŘSD conducts regular monitoring of these constructions and immediately enters the contractor in negotiations with a view to achieving a remedy in the event of delay. And it works in the vast majority. All the contractors managed to catch up on the delay, except one. Mr Jurečka repeatedly advises me to stand up to this in a manly way, such as he, to the destruction of our forests and to admit that we knew and did not deal with problems, such as legislatively, which is sometimes particularly interesting. One thing is that we knew about the problems, and the other thing is what the law and the treaty allowed us to do. The termination of the contract with the supplier is not possible if we have any feeling or opinion, but only when they do not meet the date of any contract milestone of the construction. This was the winter technological break in this case. From the contract we were also obliged to extend this deadline to the contractor once, which also happened. The work was to be completed by 17 December last year at the latest, with the motorway fully operational in the modernised section. I would also like to mention that when we gave this extended term, we had not only the promise of the contractor to make it, but also the opinion of the experts who confirmed that it could be done. Only at the time when the contractor did not meet the replacement term to which he was entitled to the contract could we terminate the contract without the risk of paying a high penalty for one-sided breach of the contract to an incompetent supplier who had fallen apart in the meantime. Again, I must point out that however the state got into a disadvantageous position, it had to comply with the law and a valid contract. Let us now leave aside Geosan's false claims that he himself withdrew from the contract, for this contract does not allow him at all. The important thing is that the contract was terminated on 18 December and practically immediately we started to implement corrective measures. As early as December 19, we moved between Humpolec and Windy Jeníkov closer to the centre of the guardrail to make this section better accessible to winter maintenance. In other words, the section has really been extended to two full lanes. [[18.30 hours]] On the fourth of January, we had the temporary guardrails removed between 90th and 94th. a kilometer, so that the highway is fully accessible again. Since 10 January we started the injection of those caverens, which were created by unprofessional work on the central sewerage and extend to the roadway, where it is not possible to run yet. Depending on the climatic conditions, we assume completion of the injection of caveren 25. 1. and around mid-February, if the weather allows us, complete all the work that is necessary before the full operation of the motorway and start dismantling the temporary guardrails and about 18. 2. the operation of the motorway without speed limit. According to the weather, repairs of the part of the road that have been taxiing during traffic restrictions will be carried out for approximately two to three weeks, in both tracks. Of course, we do not just correct the mistakes caused by the contractor. As part of the amendment of business conditions in accordance with the new Public Procurement Act, we will adjust the terms and conditions of withdrawal from the contract in other contracts, make it more effective for the building manager to influence the contractor's procedure if it does not comply with the expected timetable, and extend contractual sanctions linked to the failure to respect the construction manager's instructions and allow the termination of the contract before the actual work begins due to the apparent inability of the contractor to carry out the work. I would also like to say that we also want to take advantage of the option that gives us a new law on the giving of such companies that disappoint us in the long term on the blacklist. This is the case under the new Public Procurement Act, but there is a provision that if the company reorganizes or changes the division's boss or something, it can, of course, rejoin the contracts, and the blacklist is not long-acting, that is, if we exclude them for this reason, and they have done the corrective measures and the effective regret, then the UOHS will return them to the competition, and there is perhaps something I would still like to discuss with Minister Dostálová. However, a provision on dedicated supplier change is essential to enable the supplier to change in the course of the performance of the contract. At present, this provision is already applied to the procurement documents as well as the contracts envisaged. Unfortunately, it was not possible to apply it to the modernisation of section 12, since the law on public procurement at that time did not contain this institute. And as I said before, the contract under previous legislation, i.e. Act No. 137/2006 Sb., according to him it is necessary to complete. What I want to say in conclusion. It is said that the problem of the Ministry of Transport is the frequent rotation of ministers. Of course, I can be replaced by anyone, but I will not forgive myself for saying that the practical expression of this rotation was a delay and a slide of the problem into the future. My predecessors probably always said, "I'll be here for a year and a half, so what I'd burn my fingers with decisions that can be postponed, so it's been postponed anywhere. Modernization D1, preparation of buildings, preparation of the competition for myth and God knows what else. And it kind of worked, because whoever doesn't do anything, doesn't mess up anything, and he doesn't even have a realization problem. Having no difficulty is the program for a year and I have decided to have greater ambitions, and I can also say today that we have not only solved a number of purchased problems, but also started construction of 131 km of new motorways, and I stress that without D1, without upgraded D1, these were another 75 km. This year it is set to start another 80 km of new motorways, which the minister in question first saw when he came to open them. It is a sad reality of our country that the last new motorways started in 2010 and then not only construction but also construction preparation stopped. In addition to such delicacies as the slide affected by the part of the D8 motorway which was built for nine years, I could not open anything, only the constructions that we started ourselves. I have noted that some Members have been promising, since today's meeting, that there will be a solution to how to prevent similar disasters, such as those of December, in the future. I am not hiding that the narrowing had its effect and certainly contributed to the situation that happened there, but the calamity for reasons that I have already mentioned will probably happen without it. It is certainly funny to tell on TV that the paramilitary regime should rule on that highway, but fortunately in the Czech Republic there is no paramilitary regime that governs and cannot rule even on D1. But who should rule there more than before is the traffic police. It may be a surprise for some of you, but the Ministry of Transport doesn't have the traffic control on the highways. I was therefore very pleased with the words of Minister Hamáček that the police should be more visible on the road. We have already placed the D1 in the incriminating section with the ban on trucking in the left lane and we can consider other ways to intervene against undisciplined truck drivers. The fact is, if the police don't push the rules any more, there's hardly anything we can do about it. And if this is true for normal traffic, in a crisis situation where police, for example. it can divert traffic from a blocked highway, it's true twice as much. I'd just say two things here. Then there was another accident on this section and another disaster with heavy snow, and luckily, here I would like to commend the police when the police began to divert the trucks, the motorcade started moving much faster. Just in this first critical, catastrophic situation on the highway, unfortunately, many of the trucks got there, and it's true. I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Kaňkovský here said about the police experts warning that this is risky. Of course, we all knew it was risky. I would like to point out that both the police and the fire department are part of the so-called Fire Department. a closure committee that allows every closure panel. They're a mandatory reminder point, and they always say it, but in this situation that we were in, where we had no choice but to give the company time to fix the highway and be clear, in that situation, everyone agreed. So I wouldn't bounce around with some experts who said it was all wrong. I'll admit to myself that I was quite surprised that the company went bankrupt like this. If you look, and I would like to quote from the qualifying assumptions here, these qualifying assumptions are quite interesting and impressive, because if you look at the requirements of the reference orders, one transport construction with a financial volume of more than 750 million was needed, this consortium demonstrated by building a road network of urban type connections on the A24 Rome-L-Aquila-Teramo motorway or Autostrada A1 Milan-Neapol, which is when the motorways really look very good. I don't want to read all these things here, but I would like to point out that if we were talking about the possibility of termination of such a contract, and we really didn't give the deal without giving the bianko check to the company, which we would report to the company illegally, which would get all the money back, I think it would be unreasonable to take that step. Not to mention that we have one experience, we had a company that modernized the section in front of Jihlava, which is also in the area of Vysočina, and unfortunately the revised term changed until the winter period and I think that the road was not working until mid-January. But those contractual terms that are internationally recognised contractual terms under FIDIC, so when the client can withdraw from the contract is: failure to demonstrate the bank guarantee - the supplier has documented this; the contractor leaves the construction site - although they went slower, but did not leave the construction site; he will enter the whole work to someone else - this did not happen; bankruptcy of the contractor - did not happen; It will offer a bribe directly or indirectly - that did not happen either; and then the contractor does not proceed and does not comply with the redress calls - and this was proved clearly only in the 12th month of 2018. So now to say that somebody was gambling with someone, that they didn't react when they had - I think with such categorical statements we should save a little and we should find out first. [[18.40 hours]] So if I sum it up to answer, the Road and Motorway Directorate is currently primarily trying to fix the situation, or we need to fix the situation. There is currently an injection of the caveren, which is already completed to date. There's got to be a watering down of that dug-out. The snow has to be removed, of course, the work can be done to minus 7 degrees. That means if the weather gets us out of here, of course there's nothing we can do about it. But our goal is to take out the temporary guardrails and get the highway up and running by February 18th. Another effort is for a new contractor to get in there from the beginning of the next season, who will be able to continue the construction work to get that section together. We can go back to whether the plan is too ambitious, but I really want to say B here. If the highway hadn't been heavily repaired and upgraded, we wouldn't have anything to ride. The problem is, everyone's been pushing it away for so long, there's nothing left for us but to really get on with it very intensively. It must be said that it is not some risk of the Czech Republic, I would say, two motorways that were very similar, almost similar in a way, even with regard to the length of those sections being modernised, it is necessary to have a motorway between Linc and Salzburg in Austria, which has been repaired in this way for seven years. Many of us used to go there, I remember when we went to the mountains, so this section drove between 60 and 80. And the same thing happened on the highway between Dresden and Berlin, where basically it's a copy-paste, what we do on the D1 motorway. Let's finish this. I understand that drivers are restricted to being indignant, but I'd like to say that more than half of the highway is already in new condition and it's quite different. And the rest of it - the question is whether we should do it slow or fast. I'm still convinced that it's better to have the pain behind you quickly than to decompose it for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u5	That was the Minister. Therefore, I am opening a general debate in which I have a number of Members signed up. So I am the first to call on Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Mr Polanský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u6	Good evening again. I will only respond briefly to the Minister. I thank him for his factual summary of the issue. I'm sure we won't meet in all the conclusions, but I appreciate the fact that he discussed it point by point. He may have avoided some things in part, but I don't think it was purposeful. So I'll take points. With regard to the issue of withdrawal, we both know that this is a very difficult matter. However, if it is not possible to withdraw from the contract, it is certainly possible to discuss with the contractor the progress of the work and, for example, that there would at least be a shift of the guardrails. That's what I think was possible. Of course, we can still say that to each other in this discussion. In my opinion, at a time when the most critical winter season was really coming, at least some of the preventive steps in this section should have been taken, even by an existing firm that didn't finally finish, and at this point it is no longer on that section. When it comes to authorising a lockdown, yes, a situation where it was as it was, you probably didn't really have much left. But as I said in the previous point, at least some of the minimum steps, in my opinion, could have been taken before the situation in which the calamity had already occurred. As far as trucking is concerned, this is another preventive measure. If winter was approaching and we knew there was one full-fledged and one incomplete lane, then traffic signs in terms of no truck traffic in the left lane, it could have just been there from the beginning of winter. And the beginning of winter in the Highlands has been since the beginning of November. It's not until December. As for the intensity of the repairs, I would like to commend you here, Minister. And it's not about that - I really think that the D1 in this situation is one of the most frequent, or at this point it's probably the most frequent backbone communication in the Czech Republic. That means that you've intensified the speed of the repairs, I'm certainly not criticizing you for that. I'd compliment you on that. Yes, it brings negative impressions, of course especially for drivers, and it probably eats the most, or it affects drivers of passenger cars, because today it is from Brno to Prague for some time in winter, summer - you just never know how it will turn out. And here I would stress what we have already announced in December, when I would like to invite you to consider together in the government, for the period of reconstruction, which is still waiting on the D1 motorway, to take legislative or non-legislative measures of this type, so that vehicles with tonnage up to 3.5 tonnes are exempted from the motorway fee in the Brno-Prague and Prague-Brno section. Because if, for most of the season, that highway is now 30 to 40 percent limited, in a limited state, I don't think it's solid for drivers who expect a service, and they don't have the service half as much as they expect, plus they're experiencing stress situations there, so I think it would really help the situation. And then maybe the drivers wouldn't be so jammed up when there's some sort of a calamity going on. And then I cannot mention what you have repeated in the media, and you have repeated it here too, that is the matter of Minister Šimonovský, who - and I do not know if all Members know, and most of them probably do - ruled in the seat of the Minister of Transport between 2002 and 2006, 12 to 16 years before the situation in which we stand today. I don't want to judge at this point if he's done everything he should have done. I think there are certainly positive steps and perhaps some negative ones. But to blame the situation on him right now, I don't think he really belongs here. I've already said the example here, when someone breaks an ankle on an unworked sidewalk and the mayor says, "I didn't, it was the mayor who was here 15 years ago," so I think it's similar. This can't really be done, and I'd like to ask you very much not to make this argument anymore, because I really want to talk to you in a matter of fact, and I think that right now we need to talk about this... You've been sitting at the Department of Transport for five years, and it's time to tell us what happened in those five years. You said a lot of those steps here. I'm not saying it's all critical. You really didn't take over the resort in perfect condition. There really was a problem with land purchases. There was a problem with how the buildings were planned. That means, it's not a voracious criticism of you. But let's talk about what the problem is at this point. And most importantly, let's talk about how to do it better in the future. This means how to really minimize the risks of the situations that have occurred. I told you, it's not just about the winter season. You said you were inspired abroad. I go to Austria and Italy too. There are indeed sometimes closed perhaps 20 kilometers of stretches, that is true, even they are not able to do it in a month. But they're very careful to have, I don't know, a mile and a half away, how in which sections, those safety zones, where the crashed vehicle can somehow be cleaned up in quotes. They're very careful to have access to an integrated rescue system. And these are the measures that we should consider when planning further reconstructions and modernizations of our backbone networks. And that's what this discussion should be about today. That means yes, let's see what happened, but let's see what can happen so that we don't have to stand here in a year with a similar problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u7	Thank you. Now the Minister - with de facto or priority? You can choose. With priority you don't have a limit because no one else with priority right is logged in anyway. So with priority, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u8	I would just like to respond very briefly to what has been said here. You know, it was said here that we could definitely have done something, and we could have narrowed it down. We couldn't! Or expand. We couldn't! The company just left a kick out there. And not only did she leave a kick out there, but everyone who knows the construction work - when you're kicking out, you normally arm him. [[18.50 hours]] They didn't burn it, so all the material that was actually under the concrete ground just went in and made the caverns. If you put cars on those caverns, that would only be gambling on that D1 highway. We just couldn't do that. And we've considered it very much. I pushed the ŘSD, whether there was a full profile, but the risk of a truck falling or something happening there was a risk that was unbearable. As for the section 12 between Humpolec and Větrný Jeníkov, there is a ban on trucking in the left lane from the beginning of the reconstruction, only to enforce it. Of course, the trucks don't follow it, because when they feel there's a stronger lane, and they want to overtake or they feel like they're supposed to overtake, they overtake. This is a question of the fact that there must be some supervision so that these things do not happen or are not tolerated. I don't want to criticize anyone, but let's talk about all the measures, and these measures are complex, and they're not just measures that the Ministry of Transport can take. And the third thing. I wasn't picking up on Minister Šimonovský, and I didn't mean it bad, but I read an old newspaper that just made some claims, and I can only say one thing, that if we were really preparing these things in 2005, when they were written about them, maybe we didn't have this problem and we didn't spread the highway by just 75 centimeters, that's two full lanes in one direction, but we had the opportunity to start doing that third lane, which we basically couldn't, because if we didn't want to let that highway really fall apart, it wasn't possible. So I just want to say one thing. I'm taking every criticism and thing we could have done better, and let's talk about it. Let's talk about if the bays can't be made out there somewhere. But say we could have reacted differently? I would very much like to, I just need some advice on how to do this in the context of the Public Procurement Act and the Treaty that is signed. It's just documents, and in this matter, you all usually know who you're building or building in municipalities or in the public sphere, you're just the public administration or you're the state where you have to follow the law, whereas the supplier isn't so tough anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u9	That was the Minister and Mr Vít Kaňkovský, with the de facto Member. Mr Polanský will then be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u10	Just a little while longer. I was referring to the measures that took place just after the calamity. That means, I understand that the weakened terrain is just in the middle corridors, where the company didn't really do it, and the caverns aren't on the whole section, but they're part of the section, so obviously it wasn't possible to extend it to those full-fledged lanes, but the measures that you did then, that means an extension of 30, 40, 50 centimeters, in my opinion, that was preemptively before the onset of the winter. And that's what I meant. Otherwise, I agree that some things just couldn't be done. I really, Minister, do not want to criticize you, but the measures, if they went after December 16 and went to the places where the caverns are, were to be done preventively sooner in my opinion. But let's really talk about the follow-up measures, and most importantly, let's let other colleagues have the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u11	Thank you for your time, and now Mr Polanský. Please, you have the floor. I'm just pointing out that I've got a deal so far that it'll be over at 7:00. Is she any different? Because I was out. Is it going on? [[Messenger. It's not a law, we can continue.]] It's okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u12	Mr President, Members of the Government, Members, Members, the subject of this evening is the situation on the D1 motorway. However, I believe that if we address the issue of the recent winter collapse on D1 isolated, we will have no meaningful conclusion or solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u13	Sorry, I'm sorry. Please, you may, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u14	The D1 case is just an imaginary tip of the iceberg. This is an expression of much larger and especially long-term structural problems, which, and this must be objectively said, was not caused by Minister Ťok. However, he did not contribute to their solution throughout his time on MD. Today we are not only discussing the unhappy state of the D1 motorway but, in fact, about the trivial state of the investment construction of transport structures in the Czech Republic. A critical situation that culminated in the morning on Thursday 13. 12. 2018, when drivers stayed on the highway, respectively. At that moment rather the D1 parking lot, imprisoned for 14 hours, was the result of a combination of chronically unsolved problems. Their common denominator is management inability or unwillingness to improve where we fail. The state is struggling with problems during the construction of transport infrastructure at all stages of the project management. In particular, careful and thorough preparation of the project documentation including the opponent is missing, which we would certainly appreciate at least at the Prackovická stacade at D8, and a really functional system of building supervision. At the start of the project, the contracting authority must invest in really robust and bulletproof project preparation and its opponents, including clearly defined process control mechanisms and implementation of the construction. What the Ministry is doing today could be characterised by the words: we want to drive cheap and fast, no matter what the cost, and no matter how long it takes. However, we do not only have problems in the area of transport infrastructure construction. Remember how many competitions were successfully challenged, how many projects ended up fiasco because of stupid procedural mistakes. The state's performance in the implementation of investment projects is catastrophically low, not only because of the inability to implement such projects, but perhaps even worse, the unwillingness to learn. Unfortunately, this also applies to this government. The Ministry of Transport, during the 1 510 days when Dan Ťok is in charge, did not come up with an initiative that could actually lead to an improvement in the situation in this area. We've been babbling over and over in novels and partial modifications. What comes from the Department of Transport does not address the causes of this chronic illness, but only its symptoms. Sometimes not even that. Discounts on fare will not solve the structural problems of investment construction. The new toll system, if ever competed, will not solve the structural problems of investment construction. By the way, it is constantly presented in the media, for example by the Prime Minister in his latest questions to Václav Moravec, that the new toll system saves a billion crowns per year. So be it. Let us leave aside that the terms of the tender demand a significantly reduced volume of services compared to the present, so that there can be little talk about saving, and focus on how much human efforts and finances the Ministry of Transport had to spend on this competition, how many months have officials at the Ministry of Transport already spent communicating with the contracting authority, the Office for the Protection of Competition, constantly writing about who uploaded what on which flash drive. Amazingly productively spent resources, isn't it? If it wasn't for this nonsense, for example, the Ministry could have devoted its efforts to the creation of the Linen Buildings Act. Yes, the law that had the government movement YES in the program. In one year in office the former Minister of Transport for ANO Prachař even commissioned the processing of a material intention for this law. However, it was no longer able to be realized. After the accession of the present Minister, this whole initiative has gone to ice and we have almost nothing but a nice material intention. By almost nothing, I mean last year's amendment to Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport and other infrastructure. As soon as we came to the negotiating table in December 2017, we were promised by the Minister that what we are dealing with here today is a band-aid to the most painful places, as they say in IT, called. hot fix, and that a proper system solution in the form of the Line Buildings Act will come soon. We're over a year away from the Line Act and nowhere. Instead, we're going to trade one patch for another. Next, this time, the 40-sixteen government novel is already in the world, and soon it will reach the House. I have bad news for those who want to claim that a 400-sixteen is a full refund for the Linen Construction Act. It's not. For example, neighbouring Germany adopted its Act on Line construction in 1958 and has been continuously improving since then. This really doesn't compare to how hot a needle we sewed this patch here a year ago. [[19.00 hours]] That ZOVs are not what they seem to be, we can illustrate a simple example. Both laws, both German line and Czech forty-sixteen, contain an annex which lists priority buildings for which some provisions of the law can be applied, e.g. more aggressive way of expropriating. So-called preliminary holdings in Germany, in the Czech Republic called interim decisions. Everything's fine at first sight. On the other hand, we find that while the Němec have a carefully developed procedure that... clearly sets the criteria for deciding which building on the privileged list will go and which will not, in our country we put the list together as if, pardonfully, the grocer likes the price of a box of pork. We didn't follow a single rule or an indicator. Everything that most Members felt was important simply went on the list. Let us now look at the next upcoming novel of the so-called. Four hundred and sixty-six. From my point of view, I will admit that for the time being, I can say that even this amendment is unfortunately not heading in the right direction. The state is getting new instruments in its hands, the citizens will lose a little of their rights again, but how will these new instruments resolve the fact that 19 of 21 road construction delays, according to the Supreme Audit Office, have been caused by shortcomings in the preparation on the side of the Road and Motorway Directorate? Let's stay on the D1 motorway. As I have pointed out earlier, a separate chapter in the whole complex problem of construction of transport infrastructure is the control of buildings, i.e. supervision. Now let us ask ourselves the basic question: Does the state use sufficient control tools? Already in 2013, a system of electronic control of the construction of modernization D1 was introduced at the Road and Motorway Directorate on the first sections, so-called. EMAN system. Technical supervision had a recorded program and drawings of the entire construction in the tablets and carried out sending all information from the building - photographs, entries, copies of building journals - on a continuous basis to a dedicated server of the Road and Motorway Directorate. As a result, a continuous inspection of the construction was ensured. It was clear where it was not working and so the requirement of direct documents from the course of the construction was met, which could be used in the case of litigation. Why has this system been abolished and replaced by another simplified system which does not provide this functionality? It is clear to you that if the cancellation of EMAN did not occur, the investor, the state, that is, we all have the perfect real-time information about what was ever being worked on, what was the reason for the delay, whether there were any complications, or what day, how many workers worked on what partial tasks. All the signals about the problems you could have had on the table continuously from the beginning every day. Calls for correction could have come much earlier from the Ministry, respectively. Snap. Once again, the old known rule is confirmed that I can't control what I can't measure. I would like to conclude at this point by recalling the resolution adopted by this House at its last meeting before Christmas during the approval of the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. The resolution reads: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Czech Government to make every effort to improve the system of control activities of transport structures at the Ministry of Transport, the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, including their project preparation, especially by creating new legislative control instruments, sufficient staffing, expert control and its corresponding financial evaluation. What should these legislative control instruments be like? I'm sure it's not e.g. Charging appeals against building permits for infrastructure construction, where everyone will have to post a bail of CZK 1,000 as a flat-rate and another CZK 10,000 for every binding position that comes to mind as one of the proposals of the current amendment 416. [[unintelligible]] However, there is a huge scope in the electronicisation of both building management and linked processes, where reserves are quite clear when the construction of transport infrastructure is accelerated. But back to D1. It is likely that the entire situation surrounding the reconstruction of the critical section D1, on which the disaster occurred in December, will have a judicial endgame. We consider it necessary to find out what role the state played in the whole contract as an investor represented by ŘSD. I will therefore submit in a detailed debate to the House the following proposal for an accompanying resolution: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to carry out an independent audit of the procedure of the Road and Motorway Directorate in planning, implementing and supervising the D1 contract modernisation section 12 - exit 90 - Humpolec to exit 104 - Větrný Jeníkov. Given the helplessness of the government in starting the investment construction of transport infrastructure, we pirates are ready to lift the glove and start to improve legislatively throughout the ecosystem around the construction of transport infrastructure, where there are real problems and not where the acceleration is the easiest. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u15	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared with priority rights by Mr Gazdík. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, colleagues. He won't give it to me, and I have to respond to Ondra Polanský, my otherwise kind colleague, Vice-President of the Transport Sub-Committee. I would like to tell my colleague - I don't know if he wanted to or didn't want to see and know the information he or the person who prepared his speech for him, but when I heard criticism, words like a miserable state of investor preparation, I think they're very unfair arguments. And in a factual remark on behalf of the Department of Transport and my colleagues, I must respond immediately. Ondra Polanský certainly knows that we are introducing progressive methods such as BIM - Building Information Management. He knows we're doing an evel event of training that dialogue between the investor and the supplier. He knows we're gradually digitizing the whole process. The use of yellow FIDIC is introduced, or yellow FIDIC is tested, so-called. Design-Build. We have ourselves heard on the Transport Sub-Committee presentation of a relatively ambitious approach to PPP on D4, i.e. the first pilot project in the form of private and public funding. With regard to the BEST VALUE method, the multi-critical evaluation of contracts, as well as the ŘSD criticised and SŽDC already have the first pilot projects, where according to this, the multi-critical evaluation evaluates those contracts. Coincidentally at SŽDC these are feasibility studies from Brno to Přerov and Ostrava, i.e. the pilot project of high-speed lines. So I understand the political argument, the opponent, but I think that words like a crappy state of preparation are really unfair. And sure, there's always something to improve, and we can certainly pick up a higher pace. And here I would like, on behalf of both my colleagues and my colleagues, to make such an argument. And I don't think that's fair of fellow pirates. And I could remember discussing the last year's amendment to Act 416 when an agreement was made on the charts, for example, and then my colleague Ferjenčík, despite the agreement, disputed it and failed to comply with those agreements. [[Time warning]] So please, this argument I think you could forgive yourself for. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u17	Now, then... I have one more factual one, I'm sorry. So, Mr Ferjenčík and therefore, with priority rights, Mr Gazdík. Please. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u18	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond. I didn't make any deal on the charts, so I couldn't even break it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u19	Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Gazdík. Please. And he will be prepared for the de facto Mr Polanský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u20	Good evening, colleagues. I have to stand up for my fellow Polanský. A trivial state of preparation is something that unfortunately as a user I experience daily. I'm the one who drives back and forth at least twice a week, usually three or four times a week, after D1. And I'd like to ask the Minister. The minister had a nice speech. They wrote it nicely. All honor. But I think that the judge investor and the minister of justice must have known since September that D1 was not feasible at the given time. And that's why I'm asking the Minister. Minister, when did you learn that the D1 action around Humpole - aside from closing 14 km - would not be possible? When did you find out? When did you find it impossible? What did you do to make sure the drivers weren't standing there in the snow and you weren't surprised by the snow? It's something that's unbelievable! Since July, I've been going there, and in those 14 kilometers, I've sometimes counted six workers. That's something this state pays, which we all pay. What did you do to make it through the deadline? That's why I'm asking you, Minister. Please answer me when you found out that the thing wasn't going to happen, and what you did to make sure that what happened in December didn't happen. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u21	Now with the de facto Mr Polanský. I will just ask you how you drew up those resolutions to sign up for them in a detailed debate. You don't have to read them again. And I'm gonna read two apologies so I don't stay in debt. Mr Radek Holomčík apologizes for today's meeting from 19 a.m. to the end of the meeting for working reasons, and Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 19 a.m. to the end of the meeting for working reasons. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u22	Thank you. It'll be very short. I'm just gonna answer Martin Kolovratník. Of course, I know all the methods and new procedures that are being prepared. I attend the subcommittee, I attend the meetings. But what I was talking about was the past, the past 15 years and 10 days in office. Indeed, neither of the methods appointed by Mr Kolovratník through the President is used in real-time operation. It's all in preparation. I'd expect two or four years when my side of the Department of Transport was holding, a little faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u23	Thank you. We will now return to the general debate and I have Mr Marian Jurečka here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u24	Thank you. Good evening, dear colleagues, Mr President, Members of the Government, allow me to respond to some of the things that the Minister of Transport has explained here. I'm going to start by saying that if we had a material performance, even if there were a few unnecessary pushes, Minister Ťok said here in December when we asked for it, we had that point solved in about an hour and a half, emotions would calm down in many ways and it could be played out in a very different way. In the meantime, we listened to various statements for about a month when the Prime Minister said that it couldn't have been otherwise because they only have to compete at the price. I'm gonna argue with that here. I will also contradict what you said, Minister, because it was not necessary to compete for the prize in the last public procurement law. It was about the courage of the contracting authority, what criteria for the subject matter of the contract he was able to put into the contract. And I asked myself, then I checked with the legislatures for the time you spoke, it was not necessary and by far not all the contracting entities at the time we were talking about when this contract was awarded competed at the price. So much for correctness, so we don't have the public. Personally, it bothers me when the Prime Minister says there's no other way but to compete for the prize. The same thing when you were defending some things and you said there was snow, snow and all that. I have studied bioclimatology and at these altitudes in this period of 10 to 15 centimeters per day is not a catastrophic state of snow precipitation. We'd have to talk about him attacking 40, 50 centimeters of snow. Then we can call this really a calamity, considering that other communications within the Vysočina Region during the incriminate period were passable and mobile. So much for correctness. Yes, I explain, if it were clear from you that you would face the House here, answer the questions that we asked in public space, you said you didn't want to answer, in the meantime, your Members rejected the possibility of talking about it at the meeting before Christmas, so we would have moved to a completely different place in a matter of fact. However, some things have been mentioned here in relation to Minister Šimonovský. I confess, I never thought, as a minister, to refer to Minister Zgarba or Minister Mládek or Minister Fencl, that something at the resort is not working and so forth. However, you yourself argued, even the Prime Minister, that you said that the construction period lasted 10 to 12 years with us. When I look at it, you said those remarks in 2018, so we are more or less coming to the term of office of Minister Šimonovský, and again when I look at his kilometers of motorways launched, he was able to start some 112 kilometers of actual new construction. Of course, he was working on preparing future projects at that time. And he may have been one of those who initiated communication with Pardubice, Olomoucky Region, in order to solve the R35 route as part of the regional development intervention. It is also the memorandum signed by Minister Šimonovský with the then Governor Rabas and which you and our government have built on him an agreement which was subsequently concluded between you, the Deputy Government and the Pardubice Region regarding strategic support for the construction of the R35. So much for the correctness of the discussions. However, I will return to what my colleague Kaňkovský has also said. I would love to hear that next year, when the sections are planned, it will be clearly defined that there will be resting places. This should be created on provisional marginal land, which may also be rented by the Road and Motorway Directorate, as it does by some transpositions, such as the category of roads of the first and second classes, where regional authorities may also do so. Because I think it's a necessary solution. When we were talking to the members of the integrated rescue system, they told you, it's problematic at 14 kilometers not to have these resting places here, not being able to guarantee that we're gonna go through, that we're gonna have to take the necessary action, it's a threat and gambling, and these people are just saying that this isn't how it should be planned, and there should be bays to shut down the vehicles. I spent six hours last week on my way from Strasbourg to Prague. I have to say, we drove through the roadblocks on the German highways, and I can say that there were relocations to a whole new land, and more or less those narrowed lanes were in the guarantee of the standard two lanes we have today. The Němec were able to expand it. It was evident that this was also in locations where they temporarily bridged the watercourses, and the road traffic was smooth. You have mentioned here and some Members have also signed a proposal which is supposed to address the situation on D1 by banning overpassing vehicles over 3.5 tonnes per week from 6 to 10 hours. Please, let us not do this flat-rate solution, because I think that if, and you, Minister, had indicated this, it really did well to communicate between colleagues from the Road Directorate and the highways and the traffic police, and there were more variable markings that might even be allowed to happen, so I think that by going the way to respond operationally to traffic developments and to weather developments by reducing speed, reducing overtaking, cars would sooner be pulled off the motorway before those incriminating sections, it is much better, more systematic solution than saying that we are going across-the-board to an overtaking ban on 3.5 tonnes. I really think that this is not the solution that the public, the lay drivers, but, above all, the professionals involved, would expect from us. There is even a study of the Centre for Transport Research, I recommend you to meet it, which shows that when they modeled, this impact was already in 2008, as it would have affected practical transport, so it did not come out that it would have contributed to the solution of the transport situation. They also mention that it makes sense to discuss it locally in the selected sections of such a measure. You also touched my person prickly. I am speaking here on this issue as a member of the Economic Committee and a member of the subcommittee. I don't have ambition to be here in some way irrational. I have repeatedly said publicly that if you describe the problem, you will say what tools you lack, that we are prepared as opposition to help those solutions so that we can move these things forward, for example, to say well, to lighten D1 is key to D35, we need some additional legislative support or budgetary support or any other. We will be happy to help as opposition. None of us, and we all drive cars here, and much of Moravia, doesn't enjoy the development of D1 and we will be happy to help in any way we can. But we don't want to hear that it's the law on public procurement and competition for the price and that it's the fallacy of snow in the winter. I don't really think such arguments are correct. You've also done a little bit of taping on the barker's address. I cannot forget to mention this here, although I do not have the ambition to banish this debate tonight, but I want to say that I have repeatedly submitted material to the government, several materials that pointed to the state that it is. I described what was going on, what options we have, what ways we are voting for, and none of the members of the government who criticized me even after I left said that they didn't agree with it, that it wasn't enough or that he was proposing something significantly better. I took unprecedented steps like you did back then. Possibility of termination of contracts, I made a measure of a general nature for which I was strongly criticised at the time. At the time, I asked for a state of emergency. I was then rejected by the Ministry of the Interior and by the Prime Minister. I tried to do what I wanted to do. And if I go back to D1, I'd really like to stay on that material correct plane. I'll mention one more thing. You described that then Minister Šimonovský could decide that the reconstruction would take place in the spirit of enlargement by another, third lane. I think that you too have in your hands today that there are still sections that are not competed, which can simply be returned at some stage of the project preparation and say we want to expand, and add the third lane there already. Anyway, once every ten or fifteen years, one of your successors will do it. So if we're saying that Minister Šimonovský didn't do anything 12, 13 years ago, today he's still on some sections where it's not until the end of the reconstruction, maybe we can talk about it. I think that would be the point. [[19.20 hours]] Even Minister Šimonovskýý then planned and proposed an extension to six lanes in the section Holubice-Brno. You can find out from public sources that when he talked about it and wanted to get this support, it was rejected for budgetary reasons. He was also in a significantly different situation. Today you are in a situation where de facto ŘSD had a problem in recent years to invest all funds. So much for the correctness of the discussion. And I'd be very happy if you'd just like to comment on the closings next year, the bays, so that the cars could have a better chance of being shut down when there's a problem, and the cooperation between the police, the issue of variable marking, not the area ban for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes in the whole Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u25	Thank you, too. Good evening, everyone. Mr Zlesák is now reporting with a factual remark. Before he gets to the microphone - Vice-President Okamura has apologized to us since 19.15 hours for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u26	Good evening, fellow Members, Mr President. So I must respond briefly to the words of my colleague Jurečka. I think that when it calls for a fair discussion, it should stick to the correct discussion itself. I stood in that incriminate time in that column, and I was riding the Great Beran. I'm from Vysočina, I live in Žďársko, and I know the situation very well. Not only D1 was impenetrable, but all the surrounding roads were impenetrable, both first-class roads and second-class roads. I think that fair discussions should be followed from all sides. The claim that the cause of this column or the formation of this column was only climatic conditions, or narrowing, is very short-sighted. I have spent a lot of time on the D1 in the columns, both in the warm summer months and in the cold winters. And the basic cause is the insubordination of some drivers. And if I'm standing in a motorcade and I don't see the traffic police that do it and allow the smooth operation of both the other participants and the maintenance cars, then the motorcade always occurs when the snow is snowing. This is one aspect of the solution that the traffic police in these situations must be seen on the highway. Let's not forget that D1 is being repaired and it's a construction and we're going through the building. Unfortunately for construction - and no one has built anything yet, no applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u27	Well, thank you. Mr Gazdík is still making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u28	I would say to my fellow speaker through Mr President: Mr colleague, I have also been passing through the incriminating times, and unlike you, I have simply passed through those surrounding roads in the first and second classes. I admit I have a 4x4 car, which is good in the snow. On the other hand, I understand that you are defending your minister. But what is happening in the Humpole section is primarily the inability of the Minister of Transport, and by not being able to estimate how long the repair would look, and that in September he did not yet know that it would not be done by December, or that he simply had to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u29	Thank you. The Minister is applying with priority rights, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u30	So I wanted to respond to the end, but Mr Gazdík's double speech provoked me to react. You know, these emotional statements that I should have known and what I should have done, they're really pretty. I could have thought anything. But if you're building something bigger than it is with forgiveness, then you know that the contractor on this construction, if he has a built-up excavation of eight kilometers and promises you he'll do or won't do something, then even at a time when I'd decided to replace him, for which I had no basis and no right, there was no option that I'd chase someone there, I'd mobilize someone else who would have done it by then. Anyone who's building something knows that the most effective way is to push the supplier to do the job. And I'll admit to you without torture that I didn't even think that the contractor was just kicking him out without arming him, and that he was gonna make a problem there that had to be dealt with in this way. So it's like getting upset here and making a scene that the minister here didn't know he was going to fire someone, so it's cheap populism, and he's very, very far from truth and reality. So your question that we might have known and we should have done it long ago and that it's a managerial failure, so I'd like to see how you would have handled the situation within the legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u31	Thank you, too. I'd like to ask if we could maybe calm down the debate a little bit. I have three factual points here. First Mr. Gazdík. And by the time the mike hits, I have three note cards. Mr Třešňák apologizes to us from 19.30 am to the end of the day, Mrs Langšádlová apologises to us from 19.20 am to 2345 pm for reasons of work and Mr Bláha apologises to us from 19.30 am to 21 pm because of negotiations in the electoral region. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u32	Minister, you'll be surprised, but as mayor of the village, I have built a lot more than a champ, and I know what building supervision is. And I can't understand how it's that on more than eight kilometers, if there's no armpit, as you've admitted yourself, there's no building surveillance, and you're not able to uncover it in time. The contract didn't start in December, it started much earlier. And I'm asking you again when did you find out that the company wasn't gonna make it and that it wasn't okay? And what did you do? You didn't answer that. Sorry, I built more than a smash, and I'm sorry, I think you're an incompetent minister. Please convince me that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u33	Thank you, too. And at this point, I have no further factual points, so we will continue the debate. Please Mr Dolínek, Mr Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u34	Good evening. It became the inclusion of that point exactly what I thought was going to happen. Fifty-five minutes we've been watching an exposé local MP from the Highlands who's been here discussing with the minister about a repair in the Highlands. With all due respect for those who were there in the traffic, with all due respect for how unpleasant it was, but for an MP to take seniors and children into his mouth, their difficult situation, and here he repeated the unfortunates seven times, as they were, it seems immoral to me. It's terrible, of course, that happened. I myself stood on the freeway somewhere: in the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany, two hundred meters ahead of me, there was a bus accident, and we saw how a helicopter had to arrive, everything, there were dead, horribly unpleasant things. This was even worse than the helicopter, not in the face of people's lives, of course, but what the others had to experience there. But I wouldn't put it in my mouth in my life. I think it's wrong. We have a subcommittee on transport here. I would ask the chair of the subcommittee how many times the subcommittee was occupied by all 18 members of the subcommittee, how many times they came there. How many times has someone raised their hand and said they want to deal with this section of the D1 motorway? I'm guessing it hasn't been dealt with once. I appreciate the subcommittee because he had more than, I think, eleven sessions. The topics are not simple. It's really from railroad to PPP projects. It's very extensive what they have to deal with there. But I don't think that subcommittee was involved. And I would like to see these issues dealt with there first next time. Just as I welcome the fact that the subcommittee on justice will first address what is happening in the judiciary and then, if there are any findings, maybe come here in plenary. We might also want to deal with the Náchod bypass here at the plenary. I might also want to ask if the pirates' statements are transparent enough and supportive enough for the Prague Circle to stand as quickly as possible, and that I want it as a topic here, and I'm going to tell you about it for hours and hours and I'm going to deal with the issues here. But that's wrong. [[19.30 hours]] What can be commended here is certainly the fact that the commander did not linger at the given hour, he did not think about how he would score points in the House, but the captain, in cooperation with the police and the Ministry, coordinated with the ŘSD steps so that at those hours the IZS forces began to intervene. And I think that across the political spectrum - and thank you that the MP apparently also called somewhere at that hour - the IRS worked. Those guys, the women just did their best at the job, and they did their best in coordination with the governorship and everyone who works there. Thanks a lot for that. I guess we know that ŘSD isn't in the best shape. On the other hand, in a situation where construction companies can afford to pay double the best, it is always difficult for the state to have the best in its services. In some urban state firms, the remuneration of employees was eased. The S.O.D. isn't there yet. Here I would like to put into consideration that ŘSD should really consider a more shift to managerial salaries, but also to managerial responsibility. What I would welcome is a clear statement that whoever coordinated this section in ŘSD or those who coordinated it will be moved elsewhere. Those in charge shouldn't be doing D1. I don't want them to quit their jobs, but ŘSD has a number of territorial workplaces and they should probably go to other sections of other roads. I think this team, even though he's in a difficult situation, but he should leave, shouldn't drive any further. I'm sure that trust was lost. But while I may have a number of reservations with the Minister, I know in D1 that the work is going on, the effort is there. In the legal limits that are, that's where the work goes. And, of course, if this House has created a law here in the past that says that it wins at prizes and other things, that's just the problem. And the fact that someone can throw someone out of construction - yes, they can. But at one point, there's some courage. And it's not the Minister's courage, it's the directorate of the ŘSD, if he stops the supplier at one point. And I think colleagues know that very well, especially those who were ministers elsewhere, that the Minister does not decide in the woods either. But the forest director has to guess at one point whether - even if the contract could still theoretically run - he's going to put the supplier down and risk the courts or not. Sometimes it pays off and sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes it wins, sometimes it loses. If I'm not mistaken, when the Czech Railways refused to take over from Škodovka trains or pay them, they eventually paid more after the courts than if they had paid at the time. Elsewhere, when Prague refused to pay for Blanka, all the arbitrations in billions stood still. It's always a matter of consideration. But I'd appreciate it. Let's talk about the highway network as a whole. I think that a much bigger problem, even though it is unpleasant again, what happened in the Highlands - perhaps also the Minister could certainly consider some of the comments differently, but in those emotions it is always more complicated. But here I see at least there's repairs going on, it's going to be fixed, it's going to be fixed. For example, I am greatly troubled, and I am not from the region, the state of this highway, the motorway network in northern Moravia. After what happened at Ostrava with the freeway, until now there's no bright light at the end of the tunnel - but I'm not going to deal with the partials here. Let's talk about how we can help develop the motorway network, let's talk about who's going to fund it. Let us please say that we are able to pay the motorway and rail network regardless of whether the European Union will contribute to this in the next programming period or not. That it's just a financial priority for the state, and it doesn't matter how we source it. And it's more for me than doing this show here on the subject of "I'm an MP from one region and I need to say it to the county" But, of course, I offer all the assistance to the honourable Member that I will be happy to be one of those who will call the ŘSD outside the House meeting, and will say something you are not good at. They just do it sometimes. I think maybe the repair, even if it was unpleasant, the road and the highway Benešov on Budějovice. There it turned out to be effective, speeded up the traffic, there are two lanes in places where it wasn't clear before. It's safer, that's where it went. And there's a section where it didn't work out. And I say we punish the planners for the construction, but let's not punish the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u35	Thank you. I would like to ask Members to turn to Members through me. And now two factual points. Mr Jurečka, then Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u36	I'll be brief. I want to respond to Mr Dolínek's speech now. I think that about 16 minutes of Mr Kaňkovský's speech was really very seriously, correctly conceived, it was not a colourful trial. And to say here that he's making up some touching stories, I don't think he's correct for what we've heard. It was not offensive, it was factual and it was to seek a solution for the future. By the way, when I listened to your party colleague, the transport expert, Mr. Birke, on Sunday in Questions by Václav Moravec including Martin Kolovratník, you all spoke there in a relatively similar spirit. Well, now I'm quite surprised by your statement. And a contract can be made. I made that move. It's not just about the director of the organization. If the minister as founder gives the order, for example, from the sanctification of the government, which I also did in the case of bark calamity, it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u37	Thank you, too. And please Mr Kaňkovský, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u38	Good evening again. I would like, through Mr President, to respond to the output of Mr Dolínek. I have to say, I respect him for a lot of his rational performances here in the House, but I have to say, he really surprised me today. I'm a local Highlands MP. I'm not ashamed of it at all. You are a Member from Prague, I will not say local, you are a Member from Prague and I respect you. If we're going to be here often with these completely irrational markings in my opinion - 500,000 people in the Highlands are inferior? I personally think, Mr President, that you should respect the words. And then there's one thing that needs to be realized. There weren't people from the Highlands in that column, there was only a small part of them. But there were people from half Moravia. And they stood 30 kilometers there and 30 kilometers back. Or, respectively, some who went back to Prague again. Seniors and children, they were really there. It's not a lie. And I'm a doctor, and I'm a trauma surgeon. So I'm meeting the people that we're treating from the ravens. And I've also been the director of the hospital for several years. And in every organization like this, you have to set up a very good security measure. Because if you don't set them up, you'll one day become the person who's gonna be charged with criminal charges that you didn't have those security procedures set up. Does that mean we're resigning to minimize the risks on the highways? You can't be serious! And I also mentioned this in my speech - in advance, let us discuss what we will do to avoid experiencing similar situations in the future. So I would like to ask you very much and now just very politely, try to think about the way you're going to attack next time. This really wasn't material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u39	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. And now I beg Mr Dolínek, who will respond with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u40	Through Mr President. I did not want to touch the Member. As far as his professional career is concerned, he's respectable. As far as representation is concerned, I think that Vysočina, as well as the remaining 13 regions, and Prague, are lucky to have Members who, first and foremost, are thinking about their region, but also luckily thinking about the Republic. That's why I'm saying the subject should be wider than just one situation. Especially since we've been a month and a half since what, as you said in the beginning, was very bad for the person who was touched. You know, I have one thing to say here, why maybe I'm a little bitter like this. And my fellow MPs can confirm that I mentioned that at our club several times today. I've only been here a year and a quarter, so maybe that's why I didn't get used to it. But I find it annoying that we have a 20-page program ahead of us at the moment, where there are 230 points that affect the entire Republic. [[It shows the program to the diaper.]] These are often things not only about this Republic, but they are contracts designed to defend the interests of our citizens abroad. And these are things that are constantly being put on the table because of this sort of inclusion of points - I am not making light of your efforts, Mr President - and those points that are being put here are being pushed off all the time. Once it's the University Hospital in Ostrava, once it's this regrettable situation, once it's something else that's gonna make us uncomfortable. One day we'll take Istanbul, then we'll take, I don't know, Morocco, maybe next time we'll get pissed off at the UN, then maybe we won't be happy about something in India. We're just able to figure out what's going on here from Šumava to Tatras. Oh, my God, that's what committees and subcommittees are for! That's what we're able to do, I'm sure, with round deputies. Let's focus on what's here. And if a point comes from the subcommittee on the motorway network, even a colleague, if he wants to report it, I will be the first enthusiast to say yes. If it is a series of resolutions that will lead to something that may also support the powers of the Minister, and it can also be paramilitary, in quotation marks, of course, the regime on that highway, I am all for it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But let's have it with the outputs that are applicable to the whole republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u41	Thank you, and now, please, Minister Took with priority rights. Sorry, there's a factual remark from Mr Benešík first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u42	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, she D1 and the construction of motorways are a nationwide problem. I'm an MP from Zlinsk, and I'm proud of it. And the people of Zlinsko are affected too. And the fact that we are to have a really factual and professional discussion about how to help in committees, in subcommittees, and then come up with concrete proposals is true. But the situation didn't occur to us. She just happened, and it happened because the situation on D1 was just badly altered. At that time in the Highlands, there wasn't supposed to be a limit. And if by chance there were serious reasons, and those serious reasons, in my opinion, were not and should have been removed, the competent authorities under the Ministry of Transport should have been prepared for that. Just ploughs can't be any wider than the limit! That makes sense! So if the DSD did it regularly, and the DSD is set up by the Ministry of Transport, it relied regularly on it not to just snow, and it regularly extended those deadlines, and once it snowed, and I said it once before here - I thought there was a plan, a plan B, that. I was commenting on brexit today, so let's say plan B. And there was no plan B. It just relied on not to snow. And we want to hear what happens next time it snows. If there are thousands of people who are from my Zlin region, they will suffer or not. It is our responsibility and it is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u43	Thank you. Now, please, the Minister. I'm gonna read some tickets. Mr Jelínek apologizes to us until 20.30 for working reasons, Mr Bělobrádek apologizes to us from 19.30 to the end of the negotiations for work reasons, Mrs Golasowská apologises from 19.30 to the end of the negotiations. And Mrs Maříková apologizes to us from 19.30 to the end of the negotiations. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u44	Just for a very short time. I'd like to respond to a few things that have been said here. First, Mr. Benešík: He has ŘSD, and on this section he has plowshares and plows that have entered. That means saying it was surprised that it was snowing, it's just... If we're going to have this kind of debate here, it's not the kind of thing you're talking about that you wanted to do business here. And I'd go back to what Mr. Gazdík here said. First of all, he's got a four-wheel drive, and we're so glad we know that. And that the four-wheel drive through here, where the truck doesn't go through those ones, we all know that. So to say that he passed, so it's not true that there was a calamity. Mr. Ambassador, it was. Whatever you say, she was. The fact that it didn't occur to me in all day, that moment is also indicative of weather conditions. I'm not a guy who's been studying climate science, but if you go from plus two degrees to minus seven in 20 minutes and it starts snowing, that's where the situation is going to happen. And your evaluation. You know, I don't need to say what I think of you. Not exactly on the microphone. You may have been here in the Chamber of Deputies for quite a while, so you know how to provoke someone. It doesn't hurt that much for me. I'd say he knows the situation in Dry Loz and what constructions were done there, so I wouldn't brag as much here as you do. But at least I'd say from my point of view, you're a little short of decent manners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u45	Thank you and please Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words at this late evening about the situation that has already been done. But let me ask, hypothetically, rhetorically: Have we experienced in a new time, the modern history of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Transport, who would be one for us, who we applauded, how many new highways he opened, that he could handle all winters and that cars would run smoothly, that there would be no accidents and so on? Let us answer, and now without political jurisdiction, how many such transport ministers we know. I don't remember any. Even the so quoted Minister Šimonovský walked because he promised to lead the highways, and she just wasn't there! And let's see why she wasn't there. At least he had the honor of walking. As for the situation that has arisen, I would very much like to address the situation once that when it snows, everything will be okay, there will be no crashes and no cars will stand. It's just the fate of traffic that currently works in the dense traffic that it is. On 14 January, I received an e-mail from citizens who were stuck in Germany. There was no narrowing, there was just a truck crashing because it was snowing. And it didn't snow that there was a calamity that was later, it just snowed, the truck crashed, they stood there for five hours. For five hours, they stood there with no help from anyone, cops giving out drinks, taking care of it. No, they stood there for five hours, just blocked, didn't move. This is Germany, the model of transport, the model of the situation that it is. Let us just admit that the basic problem of Czech motorways is traffic density. Let us admit that the basic problem of the winter period of the Czech motorways is the lack of speed and safe distance from this view of traffic! Today, the exception is to see that cars maintain a safe distance from each other and are able to respond to adverse climate conditions as they should respond, i.e. Stop. And if drivers aren't able to do that, let's ask who's trying to get those drivers to do that. Now we focus on the debate only on the Ministry of Transport, possibly. Roads and highways. And I think there's a lot more of this coming into this. And she's been mentioned a lot of coordination here. But I'm asking - how were the road managers coordinated? How were the cops, traffic cops coordinated? How is the IZS system coordinated when these regular annual outages occur on the highway when it snows? And unfortunately, the highway runs through the Highlands. I don't think we're gonna be able to lead that tunnel, and the electrical heating of communications is in the dark, let's just say. How does it work out there when it snows and we all know those truckers just ride those summer tires? How do traffic cops, when these climate conditions start threatening, check to see if there's any traffic violations? How do they control when roadmen report "we're not able to clear the way"? How do the cops keep the trucks out of the way? Am I am amplifying traffic patrols? Does it work that they're shutting down those trucks that are unable to operate in these climatic conditions? Or do they just let them go in there and expect it to go all by itself, that there's nothing going to happen to prevent the traffic? How does communication maintenance work? I would only be interested in statistics on the administration and maintenance of motorways, Velká Beranov and Bernartice, how many techniques they have in recent years. If we take this, since 1988, how many techniques have had for this section and how many have in successive years. I'd be surprised, I'd even bet the technique is the same in the number of pieces on that section. But it doesn't reflect at all that, in the meantime, traffic has become so dense that it is simply necessary to modernise, improve the maintenance of the communication. And let's also ask whether they're capable of securing it or not. Let's talk about how we're going to coordinate these procedures so that the highway really works. And I ask, and that is already a specific question that might be raised, and here it has been mentioned a lot: why the Czech Republic has been in control for 30 years now that the interest of citizens goes sideways where money stinks. And we can admit here that the big companies that participate in the competition are constantly appearing on the blacklists, then they get out of them, they apply again for contracts, they always find a way to get those contracts. There's been a pretty significant building crisis that's only been slowing down lately. And in the construction crisis, these companies started to screw up prices to get those contracts. The consequences today, the constructions that we have problematic, and the Ostrava motorways fell into it, and these constructions, the reconstruction of the D1 motorway and others, are the result of the fact that these companies undercut prices to get those contracts because they had little work to do. [[19.50 hours]] Yes, the state may have neglected building supervision, perhaps taking more care of it and adjusting its contracts. But isn't it also about the fact that there is some aggressive trade policy that the state can't respond to, and we were quietly looking at how these companies operate on the Czech construction market? How do those building chambers work and all those people we like to refer to as the experts who should be here, and we're the stupid politicians and those experts should work after all? How did these authorities, which have different chambers and others, work at the time and point out that there was a breach, that they did not follow the construction procedures and other things? How is it possible that those companies that have already appeared in problematic construction contracts, and now I can aim, even though it has already been said that it is unpopular to report to their region, but in the Moravian-Silesian region to liquidate Ostramo lagoons, how is it possible that the company that failed there is getting new orders and operating within the building division without major problems in procurement? How is it possible that the company - I will say the name - Geosan, who is one of those affected in the consortium of three companies, receives these contracts and within the framework of the construction that is being followed, the section of Nebara, which should connect to the Frýdek motorway the Trinec motorway or the communication of the motorway type and the exit towards Slovakia, how is it possible that these companies withdraw from those contracts? How is it that we allow these companies to manipulate the state? Here I see a slight problem and maybe it has something to do with character traits or the appearance of the Minister of Transport. He comes from one of those companies, construction companies. I don't know how far, maybe he's at the edge, from the other side, that he sees these procedures here. And I might be interested, and maybe it's for a private conversation sometime, just how are these companies manipulating the state into leaving the job and letting the state stand? They won the contract, and they're just gonna resign, and we're not gonna do it, because the prize we competed for, we're not gonna do it for the money... How is it that these companies can manipulate the state like this? In the last 30 years in this country, freedom of business has simply exceeded the tolerable limits of what the state is capable of. And this is where the state's restrictions must occur. And quite strict restrictions of the state towards those who have been here quite well. And it is the task of the state and it is the task of politicians to set the parameters so that it can work. And maybe this is the example, but it's not an example of the responsibility of the Road and Highway Directorate, because every winter there are problems. And when a colleague is from the Highlands, he knows very well that every winter the cars are crashing and the trucks are standing there and that it may not be six hours, but only three hours. But it doesn't really matter if I'm there for three hours or four hours. The problem is just there. How is it that it hasn't been solved yet and we want to solve it quickly, immediately? Let's just talk about the fact that we've neglected something and what's the problem. And I'm going to go back to the concrete that the proposals are to solve the problem, as it was said here. There are motions for resolutions submitted by the promoters of today's meeting. When I look at the first proposal - the resolution of fellow pirates. Is there anyone here who thinks the company that did the job was doing it well? Is there anyone here who thinks the firm is in the right? But we're going to give the company arguments by order of the pirates, if we accept them in this spirit that we're going to get ourselves an analysis, an audit that we did wrong, so that they would use it against the state in the court, which in the resolution is that it's probably going to come to trial anyway. Are you really serious, fellow pirates, that we will damage the state against which we should have a goal in the debate, that he simply caused it? Or do we really think they're blameless? Another motion that we have here as a resolution. We really feel that it has been said here - now sorry, it is not in the resolution, but the idea with the road signs. There will be no toll for motorways in the section where it is repaired. I wonder how I, as Ostravák, will use this to not have to pay there. Try explaining that to me, plaintiffs. If there's a year's grade and ten days' worth of money, how do I make it or how do I get my money back? Well, I'm afraid it's not at all that you haven't thought about it at all, and that it's just a gesture, maybe to the people who live there, and that they're using it, the 14 kilometers stretch, maybe 20 kilometers. But all the others who have to travel there and go there more times a year, they just have no choice but to buy one year. And now that they have it, say that in three months the stretch is free, it helps me when I'm from Ostrava and the highway is somewhere near Jihlava. I don't know what advantage this will have for those citizens. I would like to hear that from the petitioners of this proposal. It's about trucking. There's been a proposal for a flat-rate ban. Of course, it is one of the options, and ČESMAD will certainly be angry, because once there was the proposal, and these lobby organizations representing drivers were acting, that it is impossible that they stop right, drive in one round, stay standing, the slowest one will slow down everyone else. But it was also in those solutions that they were going to appeal to drivers to comply with the regulations, and that these professional organisations representing the interests of drivers, representing the interests of carriers and carriers would cooperate and also do some education on these drivers. Did they keep that word? Do you feel that when you drive on motorways, truck drivers drive better somehow and take into account other drivers and other traffic? I'm afraid not. So subject to the pressures and say "nothing really happened, nothing happened," it just doesn't work. And with this proposal to limit the transport of trucks, when there is a time when those trucks really can cause serious problems in communication, we come in and as a KSČM we will support it, because the solution in the current situation is not different unless there is a three-way highway where those trucks could have their own belt and only when overtaking could turn out, but there is always one preserved for fast transport. Or do you have another solution? But then if we should be looking for a system solution, then next to the highway, let's build a freight railroad and force the transit to cross the railroad. That would be a solution, ecological, and I would vote with both hands to make something like this happen. But unfortunately, these are all dreams that I have been hearing for 30 years from every transport minister who prepares and makes proposals that should be improved in this country in terms of transport, but so far no one has succeeded. I don't know if the current Minister of Transport will succeed. I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed for him, but I've been keeping my fingers crossed for all the ministers in front of him, and unfortunately, I've been disappointed. And maybe those thumbs will stay in those fists when I hold them to him. But perhaps one day we will see that the motorways will really ride and work the way the citizens of the Czech Republic deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u47	Thank you, too. And before Mr. Válek gets the floor, I have three factual points. First of all, Mr Benešík, who is not here, is failing his application. And please Mr Gazdík, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u48	I feel called upon by the Minister's words, which is why I have a few remarks. Minister, there is a fundamental difference between us. While my constructions in Dry Los aren't threatening anyone, so your activity or inaction on your D1 constructions threatens me to live and thousands of citizens. That's a big difference. Second thing. If you're talking about decency, I beg you to be also an active participant in decency. I asked you twice in this discussion, and I will repeat it for the third time: When did you know that the company would not be able to make it in time, and what did you do about it at that time? I beg your answer when you call for decency here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u49	I thank and please Mr Kaňkovský with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u50	I will respond briefly to my colleague Luzar through the President. I've said it quite clearly, and I'll do it again. The KDU-ČSL proposal concerns the section of the D1 motorway in the range of Prague-Brno and Brno-Prague, i.e. 200 km of motorway in both directions during reconstruction, i.e. sometime by 2021, if this is over. [[20.00 hours]] We believe that if there are seven, eight or nine sections of traffic in the course of the year, the driver does not really receive the service that he pays himself. And, of course, it's for consideration. If this person is using other highways in the Czech Republic or goes somewhere further, it would of course not concern him. But there are a number of people who actually commute to work only after these two hundred kilometers. And it's not about 14 kilometers in the Highlands. So it's just to explain. We said that at a press conference. And I call on the Minister to address this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u51	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Benešík's factual comment. Before the microphone comes, Mr Jáč apologizes to us from 20 hours to the end of the negotiations for business reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u52	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly. I don't blame the Minister for snowing. We all know that. That's understandable. Indeed, these situations occur in Germany and Austria. What we blame him for is that there was a permit for construction in the winter period, and it was reliant on the absence of such a situation. And that was a management error. Maybe the management error of the ŘSD, but the ŘSD falls under the Ministry of Transport. And people in those regions, even in the Zlín Region, ask Members what you will do about it. It's my duty to get off here. I'm not attacking anyone. I don't want to run this confrontationally. We, at KDU-ČSL, have made it clear that we are ready for discussion and we want to know and we also want to contribute to minimizing such matters, such situations. I think everyone will understand. And then many times there were the names of Milan Šimonovský, it was said here how many buildings he started. So, actually, according to the Prime Minister, if we take the scale of the buildings we started, he's probably the most successful transport minister. If we take it that way, who started running the building permit, too. Because, as I learned from the experts from the ANO movement and from the Prime Minister, the average length of processing such a building permit is 12 to 13 years. So if you're going to project which buildings the Minister Tók must have started, these are the buildings that Milan Šimonovský started to deal with. But I'm not going to appeal to him. I wasn't sitting here in the House. KDU-ČSL even had a break in this House. And I'm not gonna summon old ghosts. Let's just talk about what it is. And the appeal to Šimonovský, who was responsible in the past 15 20 years or 12 years ago... I hope you don't start accusing us of the railway network, because in the first Republic, the Minister of Railways was the chair of the KDU, or respectively. then the CSL, the Šrámek. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u53	I beg Mr Válek, who is duly signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. You're always staring at where we're gonna get from D1 to that debate. I got a little nervous because I found out that nine o'clock is supposed to be over, so I only have an hour left, which isn't much to say when you have something important to say. Now that I've recapitulated, I've learned that not women, singing and wine, but D1 has taken most of my life away from me because either I'm on it or I'm standing on it, or I'm in a column. My record is nine hours, seven years ago, it wasn't this year. I'd like to say what's bothering me. Of course, it bothers me that there are repairs on the highway that are not always done quickly enough, seriously enough from my point of view. I'm also worried about the planning. And I think it would be good to hear the answer when we actually found out that the construction couldn't be completed. Anyway, most of all, I'm worried about something I experienced last year, and then I got whacked in the paper because I didn't get a vote here, and that was that a Polish truck was on the freeway, and he got... I don't know what, he stopped on the highway, no major accident, no dead, no helicopters, but the highway stopped, there was also a little snow, there was no key calamity, it was three kilometers behind the exit from the highway, and we were standing there for four hours waiting for someone to start organizing that we would eventually turn the other way, and after the convention we drove off. Even then I was a newly elected MP, so full of pride I wanted to go deal with the situation as I represented those citizens, so I communicated with one of the policemen who was there, and the other, who was sitting in the car, and they told me that there were few and that they were waiting for reinforcements. And so it was waiting and waiting. So then we talked to each other in those cars, some of them had tea, so we had tea with each other. Then there were a couple of tougher characters, they took the orange vests and started organizing it themselves. I couldn't take it with my nerves after that. And since, after all, man is a doctor, every one of us who's a doctor here knows that we have a lot of friends from different... So I made some calls, and finally a group of cops came in, started organizing it, got in the opposite direction, got off the crossing. Why am I saying this? These personal experiences are often meaningless to say that. But I'm saying this because it surprises me, and I hope to learn the answer here, not today, but I'm going to find out in Parliament that we regularly train in all the facilities, hospitals, probably everywhere, for fire-like disasters. We practice regularly, and the paramedics who sit here, they know, for all sorts of crap. We're going to crash the plane, hit the train, take the bus around, and there's going to be an expedition, and if we save all these people, we're going to go to the hospitals. We are preparing for a very unusual, unexpected situation, which we firmly believe will never happen. And I'm wondering how we're actually doing training for those teams that should get on that D1 when there's a situation like this where a column starts to form. Because what I want -- those columns will always form there, I don't think there's any minister, any force that wouldn't give it a go. Unfortunately, because there was a revolution in 1989 and we stopped commanding the winds and rains, so the snow will not be prevented. So from my point of view, the only option is to have a freeway that isn't that long, along it are a number of big cities, a number of teams that, in the event of any catastrophic, catastrophic situation or situation like this, are going to get on and start working very quickly, rationally and professionally. That should be trained from my point of view. I don't know who's in charge. I'm in opposition. What am I? I'm nothing. A simple opposition MP. What can I do? But now I would expect a team of ministers to, I don't know, stand on it or sit on it, or I don't know, kneel down and start talking about how to solve this. Because here I see a major problem. Each of you are probably driving on that highway, only after that D1 has experienced the disillusion in that column, when you're standing there, waiting, waiting for an hour, waiting for two, waiting for three, waiting for four. And you don't know why you're waiting. You don't know what's going on. You have no information. It's okay. Well, on your phone, you know you're waiting. But you get to the place where the disaster is, and there's nothing. And I would expect them to get on that highway, and on that D1 priority, a team that will start organizing that motorcade to start melting as quickly as possible, so that the cars that can start going back to the nearest exits, etc., just to get rid of the motorcade as quickly as possible and not take so many hours to solve the crash and solve the problem on that highway. Personally, that's my biggest problem. I don't think there's any point in patronizing the transport ministers on a regular basis. And I'm not gonna do it for the fact that at a time when a large amount of snow is snowed and the stretch is narrowed, a column is formed. That's just gonna happen. It bothers me that repairs are not planned in such a way that, at a time when an impaired traffic situation can be expected, such repairs are not somehow terminated or interrupted. I consider that a mistake. However, I consider it a fundamental mistake that situations like this happen repeatedly, they happen practically every year several times. And they can't be solved quickly. And so I'd like us to start focusing on this. That is why I am extremely pleased, unlike some fellow Members, that today this problem is being solved, that it has come before the other points, because it does not concern a few people on the D1 motorway, but it concerns practically the whole Republic. The D1 is a spinal artery that connects the Republic, and it also affects citizens from other states that drive through it. After all, it's a model problem. My calamity did not occur at that time on the highway between Prague and Brno, but between Olomouc and Brno. So it doesn't matter. We should simply discuss how to deal systematically with this situation. We should deal with it quickly. We should deal with it rationally and consider it a priority when there is a collapse on some highway, when there is an accident and a column starts to form, how quickly a crisis team gets in and it really starts to deal with this situation, and it will be a priority for it. And if we succeed in doing this, I think we're gonna do a lot of good for the citizens of our republic. And I'd like that very much. I'd consider it a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u55	Thank you, too. The Minister is now reporting with the facts. Please. Your two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u56	I don't want to delay all logged in, but only very short reactions. I agree with you. I've been looking twice for how to practice a situation like this on the freeway when a truck bike bursts into model. How do you deal with these things in narrowings? I've come across one problem, and I don't want to make excuses for the police, but the highway section has two vehicles. Most of the time, the two vehicles on that 40-mile stretch are able to sort out accidents that happen there, which means they're doing some kind of prevention, they're not doing that. Here's a system problem. The second problem is, and I want to come up with it in the Chamber of Deputies, we're still lobbied in our law that the car tow isn't in the communication operator's gesture, so when a man comes in and a policeman says, "we're gonna drag your car, get out of here," he says, "I've got a ride." And the policeman is afraid to order him, because if he told him to, that's true of his own. We need legal help here. These steps need to be done and really pressured to have the police there. And to make no excuses, I think I answered that question in the opening speech, but I'll get back to it. The rumor that we should have known and we shouldn't have let it go through the winter, we all knew that, of course. We did everything we could to make sure it wasn't built over the winter. I have to say here that officially, that the company won't make it, I learned sometime in early December, when there was really nothing I could do about it. And here I was explaining that based on the impression, I just couldn't react. Impressions and feelings belong to categories other than facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u57	Thank you and now please Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u58	Thank you for the floor. Good evening. I didn't come here to grill the minister. I will not be in the line that has been debating who is responsible for this, why this has happened, how to resolve this, although I consider this debate legitimate, D1 is a public farmhouse, the roads are financed by taxes from our fellow citizens, and that is why I think that if there is such a problem, it belongs on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I wanted to use the debate to talk about what I wanted to talk about here when the problem on D1 was, in winter and at the end of the previous parliamentary term as well in summer, because it is necessary to admit that the D1 motorcades do not only arise with the first snow or with calamity, but spend a lot of hours in the D1 motorcades throughout the year, whether it is caused by a car accident or in the summer months by some travel of our fellow citizens on vacation. The problem is not just a winter problem, the problem is systemic, and who really has to deal with the fact that they go to work more often on the D1 motorway, it really is roulette and they have to plan very forward and keep a very long time reserve. In this context, I wanted to offer the Chamber of Deputies a debate on the fact that, on the basis of these long-term problems, we would have a debate on whether it is adequate that the Czech Republic, in addition to the fact that our motorists pay excise duty on petrol, VAT on petrol, our entrepreneurs pay road tax, which is quite a large amount that fills the state budget, so if, in addition to that, knowing the quality of our backbone infrastructure, knowing that we do not really know the days and hours when D1 will be impassable, if it is adequate to stand next to the fact that it collects excise tax on petrol and diesel and VAT and road tax from entrepreneurs, it has collected from our motorists annually CZK 1,500 per motorway stamp or highway coupon, as they say. I think that this is simply not adequate and that an apology to our motorists for what they are experiencing only on D1 would be the abolition of the motorway mark until our motorway network is built in adequate quality, to the extent that we know it not only from Western Europe but also from our other neighbours. Those who have experience from Poland know how Polák were able to build a relatively quickly high-quality infrastructure. My discussion was held in the previous parliamentary term, these were colleagues from social democracy and the ANO movement. Before Christmas, it was initiated by the ANO MP's club. I therefore want to take this opportunity to propose a resolution, which I will then repeat in a detailed debate, namely that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Minister of Transport to prepare for 2020 the discount of motorway coupons for motorists, reflecting the lack of quality and transitability of key parts of road infrastructure. I just think that if the state can't provide a public good of a quality corresponding to the 21st century and corresponding to what we know from abroad, it doesn't have the right to charge another fee in addition to taxes. To argue and avoid the criticism that the money that the state collects for road signs goes into roads and road picking and that it could de facto cause their further deterioration, I just want to say to my honourable colleagues that from the total budget of 54 billion. CZK, which the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure has available annually, so the motorway amount contributes 5 billion to this budget. Kč. I will remind you that the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure receives most of it from the state budget as a subsidy, which is 25 billion. CZK, from tolling 9 billion. CZK, from excise taxes 8 billion. CZK, from road tax from entrepreneurs 6 billion. Kč. So the highway stamp is really a very minor part of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure's budget, and even if it was cancelled and the state collected a zero price for the highway coupon, nothing so dramatic will happen to this fund. The state can add billions there by increasing its state subsidy. I also want to avoid reproach for criticizing free lunches, the free fare with which the current government has come, and on the highways we have it differently that we would like to provide them for free. It's not true. I just want to say that the excise tax revenue for petrol and diesel in 2017 was about 90 billion. Kč. Adding to that the VAT that we pay at our petrol stations, when we drink petrol, and adding it up, this amount, which motorists pay annually, goes far beyond 100 billions. Kč. I think that this is a huge price that our consumers pay for using public goods such as roads and highways, that it is a huge amount and that it cannot be said that if we cancel or discount the road sign that we could talk about our motorists riding free highways. They don't, motorists are very important contributors to the state budget. If we just calculate the excise tax and VAT, it's over 100 billion. CZK a year. That is why I think that we should proceed with the poor situation, the poor quality of our backbone road network, to compensate motorists for the fact that we will at least make the road sign cheaper. I, on purpose, do not come up with any number, a specific amount in this resolution. I want to give the government, I want to give the Minister of Transport some room to reach some relevant amount. I think that a significant relief would be at least a third of the relief, i.e. If today's price is CZK 1,500, so if we were to lower it to a thousand grand a year for 2020, I think it's something that motorists would have to experience on our roads and motorways that would be an adequate replacement. Minister Ťok has already responded to this proposal in the media, calling it populist. I must confess that I was very surprised by the Minister of the ANO movement, who here approved free lunches, free fare, by this comment. If the Minister doesn't consider it populist that we want to discount the road sign at a time when the quality of the public estate is really miserable, and at the same time he's able to consider the free fare, free lunches, quotes, because, of course, the taxpayers will pay it differently, I don't fully understand the argument and the logic. But I guess that's for everything. I said, I didn't come here to grill the Minister, I want to make a proposal here that could lead to a discount on the road sign that I think our drivers deserve for 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u59	Thank you, too. Now we have two factual points to make. First Mr. Benešík. Before she reaches the microphone, Mrs Helena Válková apologises to us from eight o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u60	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad that this discussion has come to a material level, that it is not confrontational. I am glad that I have learned the information that I did not have before, about systemic mistakes, systemic errors, problems that, apparently, at least some of them, we will have to correct in legislation. So I am very glad that the speakers, even from the ANO movement, by presenting this, including the Minister, say that today's discussion is not useless. That was our goal to just tell each other what was wrong and how to fix it. Notice, from the mouth of KDU-ČSL, we never said we wanted to call off the minister. It's the Prime Minister's business, we don't support this government, and it's his business. But we want to deal with this situation. And I am really very happy for KDU-ČSL that the discussion is currently relevant and that we are getting information that we needed to hear. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u61	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Vondrák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be constructive. I have a solution for you. We have a public farmhouse, which is a supercomputer in the Czech Republic, where we record the movement of 150,000 cars online and we create a completely faithful and accurate picture of how our travels run. So take your left hand with your phone, your computer, open your browser, and I'll dictate it to you. The address is rodos.vsb.cz and you will find current status on D1 from exit to exit, as it goes there fast, as it will be there for a long time, why it stands there, you have it all at your disposal. It is not a navigation system, but it uses Czech Television, Czech Radio and all other navigation systems including Sygic. So please take advantage of these options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u63	Thank you, too. We will now move forward - in the general debate, Mr Kolovratník is signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u64	Thank you for the floor. I quickly looked at RODOS, it looks really interesting. And I, in fact, wanted to mention some of the web services in my speech. At the beginning of my speech, however, I will respond to Mr Skopeček with the figures he worked with, the 54 billion, I believe he was talking about national resources, it is a little over 84 billion in total, including European funding. Through the President, I want to say, she is a nice idea with which the ODS has already come up once or several times, but I want to say, the 5 billion, in my opinion, my colleague, is not a negligible amount at all. But for example, four billion, these are the funds that the government gives to the regions every year for twos and threes. If we told the county we wouldn't send them there because we canceled or cheaped the road signs, what would we ask? I'm sorry, but I think, and I've been chairman of the SFDI Supervisory Board for several years, that 5 billion is a hell of a sum that we shouldn't lose, which we should put into that infrastructure. But what I was going to say here, colleagues, about today's debate, I'm actually going to follow up on what I mentioned in my point of fact. We understand criticism and it is good to discuss the criticism, to open it, but please, let us be fair, you yourself mentioned in your debates what happened thanks to snow also in Germany, Austria etc. There was a one-day situation here in the Czech Republic. We can debate whether and how it was handled in the media, but it certainly was not such an extreme situation, although I have full respect for understanding, because as an opposition you can request any point and discuss it. But if you're still using those words about the trivial preparation, the trivial situation, then I made a few notes during the debate during the last few years of the ANO movement in the Transport Department: Law 416 has been amended twice, so the final version is the one that has been valid since last September, and thanks to you all for the cooperation where we agreed, all nine clubs. I was talking about modern procurement methods, and I'm not going back to that. You know very well that high-speed lines, the project is no longer theoretical, but it's running. The Minister was recently in Germany. There is an agreement with Germany on precise tracking and technical implementation of the Prague-Dresden arm and the tunnel under the Ore Mountains. We have three high-speed pilots ready to start building on the main corridors in the order of units of years. The budget of the SFDI is over 84 billion, only for new events is an investment pool of around 17 billion. And now, please, I don't want to show you different and different graphs and argue about what is and what is not a new kilometer. Real and hard facts are that this year is ready for construction, or the construction of over 360 km of motorways and first-class roads begins. They say that everything bad is good for something. You are looking at how ŘSD communicates since winter, or since Christmas, it is very active on twitter, on Facebook, gives camera footage, manages a website very well called new D1 or traffic info.cz , what my colleague Vondrák was talking about, an experimental website with a university in Ostrava. So I'm sure you can get that information. Even this, I think, helps the situation or the solution very well to prevent problems. I will add the request that Mr Dolínek spoke of as the chair of the subcommittee on transport, really, he applied there, I do not have it exactly calculated now, about 18 members of the House, we often meet there four, five. Often we are not a quorum. And we're discussing really serious projects like PPP on D4. And it is sometimes sad that there will come a very interesting gathering of guests and unfortunately the participation of Members is what it is. I'm applying to the rest that I promised, and which I want to see this week that we're going to announce the deadlines, the fixed dates of the subcommittee next semester, in line with the House's schedule, so you know about it. I'll be happy to deal with these problems there, and we'll talk about them. So, bottom line, I think we're working, we're working well, we want to work, we're taking criticism, we're taking open, constructive and fair criticism. But please, let's not make this political theater, and let's not chase points at the expense of something that doesn't deserve it. For myself and I believe that I can also say for my colleagues that we are ready and looking forward to working together in the YES movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u65	Thank you, too. I have one factual remark from Mr Skopeček. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u66	Thank you. I will also respond to my previous speaker. I am in no way, and I would like to retreat, not to say that I consider 5 billion crowns to be a small sum or an amount that would not benefit our roads, whether regional or national. I'm sure you didn't. I just wanted to show that from the entire budget of the fund it is a minority amount, that much more of this fund comes from subsidies from the state budget. And I would just like to remind my colleague, through Mr President, that only tax collection has increased by more than CZK 130 billion compared to 2018 and 2017. So what you would get thanks to the extra economic growth of CZK 130 billion, and we'll compare it to CZK 5 billion, which we could return to our drivers for not driving and standing in columns, I think there's an amount the state can handle if you spend that 130 billion on sensible things and not on such stupid things as free fare or free lunches as you're going to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u67	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u68	Mr President, colleagues, I also took the liberty of speaking, because today there was a tractorist, a teacher speaking, a doctor speaking. I'm a miner, and I've been driving for about seven years, so I set off some 150 kilometers of mine corridors. Those are subway tunnels that weren't on the mine. So I think I can also contribute a little bit to the mill. [[20.30 hours]] I am here for the second term and we discussed in December during the first term, if I remember correctly, in 2014 the collapse of České dráhy, or rail transport, when in winter it began to freeze, drizzle, froze trolls and stopped running trains. And some Members - I think he was a colleague of Luzar who was not here - did not reach Prague. He ended up in Olomouc under a blanket at the station in an unheated waiting room and we've been dealing with this place for about eight hours. We spent eight hours dealing with the traffic collapse. It was found that we were short on diesel locomotives because electric locomotives stopped running because the trolls didn't go and it didn't have to be towed. There was some problem with the D1, which I am not demeaning, certainly not, but, of course, the opposition has the aim of pounding and searching for any loophole to attack the ruling coalition, in this case our Minister. In contrast to - I don't know how many Members there are of transport experts, perhaps Mr Kolovratník here, but the Minister is an expert who was the CEO of a large company, I forgot the name, but it doesn't matter, you Google it, so he's just not an amateur. He's a man who, I think, if I understand mining, and that's not flattering, but I think I understand that in 33 years, so I think the Minister understands construction. It's just that no one can put it in his mouth that he doesn't understand. Of course, there's been a difficult situation, and you, as a manager, and I take that minister as a manager, and he makes some management decisions in certain situations, and sometimes he goes into some kind of risk. The manager's handling the situation. Yes, I have a deadline where I need to fix the highway, fix it, and a second term that might be a problem. And of course, every manager is considering it. He went to a certain risk here, which turned out to be not entirely optimal, but after the battle, every general is! Which one of you ran some company, which one of you ran some production, so each one of you as a manager went to risk. The risks may have been 80-90 percent, 10 percent did not work out, but it was always necessary to know if the person had gone into it with his heart, he had strong arguments to put the risk into it, that he didn't go into it head-on, but he went into it with certain arguments that he thought would be relevant. For God's sake, I'm knocking on the wood here, I don't want to brag here - I've got here when it wasn't worth the Řebíček, when it was worth Šimonovský, or it didn't work, so we could play the ping-pong here. But in any case, it must be said here that the situation in the transport department is changing here. And we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the revolution this year. The 30th anniversary! How come we don't have highways here, the whole highway network? Nobody asked that here. How come we don't have a highway network after 30 years? Who's to blame? Where is Mr. Stanjura to represent the ODS here? It's in his arm, it's the debate tonight! And I think of him as an expert who understands traffic. I don't understand her that much. But 30 years! What have we been doing for 15 years? I'm not a communist MP, but we've privatized 15 years since 1989, which means we've been looking for ways to sell this place, how to monetize it. I'm a memorial to the privatization of OKD. Even today, I've been going to the OKD investigation committee for a year and a half, we're still dealing with it, hundreds of witnesses, it's such a difficult situation, it doesn't belong here, but it's just 15 years of privatizing property here and nothing's been invested. Then we joined the EU, so it was settled - and we dealt with what? Instead of putting the money in the grids, the railroads, the roads, we did regional operational programs. To this day, there are still some politicians who, in those - I speak specifically, the Northwest - are going there as they are today. And count how many sightseeings we have, how many bike paths we have, and we, the henhouse champ, don't have highways! We've got one that -- the black Petr fell on the minister here, they've all been putting it off, the black Petr, if Šimonovský, it's gonna be there, we're gonna plan it in 2005, then somehow it didn't work out, then Bárta came in, we're gonna do PPP, we're gonna monitor it, we're gonna figure it out, we're gonna analyze it. Some years went by again when YES came, and I remember the words of the Prime Minister who said, you know, in 2013, the Czech Republic is like an oceanic ship. She's been going for 24 years, he said it expressively, I'll say it in the wrong direction. And now it's up to us to turn the Czech Republic in the right direction. And that's the question of the traffic here. Only in 2013, we filmed the helm with 47 votes. We're 78 today, but we're in a minority government. That means we're not ready to turn the rudder properly so we can turn it around and reverse it so we can just do it, and it's gonna be here, and there's gonna be these roads! The Minister here gives hope to all of us who believe that, and I think that what is important today, and Mr Špidla said it, the resources are, the resources are, and I think that the Minister will have our confidence, will have confidence in the Chamber of Deputies, and I am glad that the opposition Members here are ready to give a legislative hand to the Minister so that we can actually reach the Czech Republic in the infrastructure that is needed so that we do not feel ashamed to go to Poland, because I am from a region that is close to Poland. I'm a bilateral Czech-Polish group. I've been driving there for 30 years, and I'm embarrassed today when I'm going to Poland because I'm going out of Bohumín and I'm going to Warsaw on the freeway. Once if it wasn't for Hitler, with forgiveness, I'm sorry, it was the only highway behind the former Opole regime on that concrete highway. Today it really is thanks, of course, to the European Championship in 2012, when it really is Silesia, the highways are there, and I wish we could catch up with Poland today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u69	Thank you, too. Your performance raised several factual points. Mr Benešík is the first Member to prepare Mr Munzar. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u70	Thank you for the floor. Just a rhetorical question. I really didn't think I was gonna perform anymore, but if the hype wasn't before Christmas, do you think it's a rhetorical question, let's answer it ourselves, do you think that the restriction would have been cleared, cancelled, the company banished from construction? Personally, I don't think so. So I guess the hype was for something. And the other thing. Yes, we're here - I'm not at the helm, there are others at the helm who want to turn the helm. I don't remember, I've been here for the fifth year, or actually the sixth even, I've been here in the previous parliamentary term, too, but I don't remember anyone in the government or the House holding hands with ANO ministers who have been here for the sixth year in key positions to do anything about it. Transport, environment, local development. That's just the way it is! The sixth year is the case. So you can and we can all make excuses for what happened before. Remember what was behind the First Republic and the Communists and when it was better or not. But it's just that it's been a long time since that, ANO colleagues, you've got it in your hands, and that progress is definitely not what you promised people. And I hope I don't have to perform anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u71	Thank you. There's been an increase in notes. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u72	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. I'll take the liberty of responding to Mr. Hájek. I didn't originally want to perform, but when he said what happened in the last 30 years, let's just remember that five years, respectively. Six now, he has the transport department in the hands of the YES movement, and let's look at the SAO's reports. 17 kilometers of motorways were put into operation in 2017, 16 kilometers of motorways in 2016. If we wanted to have a motorway network by 2050, it would take 25 kilometers of highways to get it up and running. Unfortunately, we didn't get to that. And I would just like to remind you that we are all complaining here, including the representatives of the ANO movement, quite rightly that it takes a very long time to prepare such a construction, but let us remember the end of 2014, at the last parliamentary term, when the previous House, on a proposal from ministers for the ANO movement, approved the amendment to the EIA Act, which caused the process to be repeated in dozens of transport buildings, and thus extended by a year for some buildings, for some by two preparations of such motorways. So let's talk about how to speed this up, and I'm asking you to be relevant. The show was emotional, I get it, but let's have some fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u73	Thank you. Mr Dolínek, please prepare Mr Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u74	I only have to respond very briefly to the Member through the President. First of all, I hope that there will never be a time when the YES movement itself will be in government. And two. I think that not only your ministers, but our captains and all others are fully prepared to support any proposal and law. But now I'm gonna dig into those coalition lines - it needs to be brought to the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u75	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, please prepare Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u76	Thank you. I'm here, too, with permission from Mr Hájek. You know, I remember when Mr. Prachař came to the government after five months and said: "I need to speed up land purchases when building transport infrastructure. Allow me to make a legislative change from eight to six times the prices for the purchase of land. We told him at the time that we thought it wasn't a completely systemic solution, that it wouldn't work, but we said, if the Minister of Transport wants it, we'd meet him. And KDU-ČSL coalition partners, the ČSSD allowed him to do this. Did it lead to anything? I couldn't. Everyone waited and stayed 16 times that. So I just want to say that there were just moments when your minister, not the present and predecessors, came in, said, "I want to move it," we made it possible. What bothers me and what I have also criticized publicly is that I do not consider it a proper and managerial approach, because we have had a lecture from Mr Hájek from crisis management and strategic management here, for which I thank you, but I do mind that the key legislation here is simply submitted by the parliamentary proposals. I just don't remember, like, four years from now, as a minister, making some sort of proposal through Members. Bypassing those inter-resorative commentary procedures, bypassing the RIA, it just isn't right. Even if the paperwork solves the legislation at the Department of Transport. I would like Minister Tok to say simply: I need you and these things and in a quarter of a year, you've got them here in six months, I'll come to the Economic Committee. I want to discuss these intentions with you so that there is maximum support. We'd be happy to support that. But what bothers me is that these things here, when this house is full of people, they're going this way. Here you go, Members. Work it out. Mr. Kolovratník will circle you, we love him, because we love him, so we will be happy to accommodate him in this. But I just don't consider this a system management approach if I have the problem described and I want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u77	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Kalousek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the Minister's outrage. Anyway, he's been in that position for five years. A lot of ministers took turns in front of him in a few months. Whatever Mr. Bárta was, whatever Mr. Prachař was, whatever Mr. Šimonovský was, whoever he was. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And the only thing left unanswered. It's just that the vision isn't here... [[A silence.]] It's not possible to blame everything on your predecessors, especially those who don't exist here anymore. Just, Minister, sign up for your responsibility and say that no matter what your predecessors did, you are unable to secure the basic transport infrastructure in this country. Sorry, there's nothing else I can say at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u79	Thank you. That's all the facts at the moment. And so have we exhausted the written applications for the debate. Mr. Chairman reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u80	Thank you for the floor. I cannot not respond to colleague Hájek through you. When he was spinning the wheel so beautifully around here, I thought, "We're familiar with the term." History knows one great helmsman, Mao tung. And as it turned out, when the helm was spinning, we could talk about it. You need to respect your colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, because you never know who you need for mutual cooperation. Well, since you've defended yourself here so much as the Minister is an expert, the subject of transport is much more complicated. For example, I am interested in how the debt of the Czech Railways will be refinanced in March or in the summer for eight billion. Those are the little managerial failures or the questioners I personally have. And I wonder, if the Minister did not know until December that the situation was there, how it was possible that the consequences had not been drawn from it to someone else who should have watched it much sooner so that we would not be surprised by the snow in December.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u81	Thank you. Once again, that is all at the moment, all the debate. Looks like no one else is reporting, so I'm done with the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u82	Dear colleagues, I will just briefly sum up as rapporteur for today's debate. Despite the fact that this subject has been questioned here by some colleagues, particularly Mr Dolínek, it has been shown only from how much has been involved in the discussion that this topic really interests more than the Vysočina Region and perhaps some of the regions around it. So I want to thank you for sticking around here and for really discussing it. I want to thank the Minister for summing up his view here. I can say for myself that I am not satisfied with everything, I mean in terms of answers. However, I appreciate the fact that he was on a material level. I'm just going to sum up the discussion briefly for myself. Of course, you can have a slightly different view of it. The discussion was not merely conducted by the catastrophic situation between December 10th and 13th. That's what I said at the beginning, and I insist. The discussion - I said right in the opening word that it was the last straw. The issue of reconstruction D1 is much wider. It turned out here - and here I will agree with the Minister. Of course, this is not just about the Ministry of Transport, as he said, it's about synergies with other departments. And also the point was not named Information of the Ministry of Transport, but Information of the Government of the Czech Republic to address the crisis situation on D1. This means that I believe that the Minister will open this issue at the Government's meeting and that he will also discuss his activities with the police, with the transport police, with the Fire Rescue Corps and with other IZT forces. So it's just that the debate really wasn't meant to be just about those three days of calamity in December last year, as I also said in the opening word. The output should be some solutions towards the future in order to minimise the risk of similar situations. And I also said that this is not only about the winter period, that it is about the general reconstruction of the backbone roads and the problems associated with it. Some proposals have been made here, whether it concerns improving the planning of the reconstructions, the acceleration in the preparatory procedure, and perhaps the Minister here would argue that this is indeed also for legislative changes. There were public procurement issues mentioned here. Although we have amended it several times, unfortunately, it is still not in a form that would always help these situations. We discussed improving coordination of work, improving cooperation between the Ministry of Transport, ŘSD and implementing companies. It was also said here that building supervision on these major reconstructions needs to be improved. I don't want to mess with the Minister any more now, but if on such a long stretch where the central corridor was being repaired and dug up within a foot or a meter at least, and there wasn't an arm, it really seems impossible to me as a transport and construction layman that the building supervisor didn't reveal this in time. I must say, I consider it a mistake. There's been talk of security measures. Those security zones are really abroad on those reconstructed sections, even if they're provisional. And I think that, in fact, given the safety of the drivers and the improvement in the resolution of those crisis situations where there is an accident or a vehicle failure, this can be a concrete measure that can improve the situation. [[20.50 hours]] There were two suggestions on how to relieve drivers who actually use the D1 motorway, or some other, where reconstruction works are carried out to a greater extent. We mentioned the possibility of freeing drivers on the section Praha-Brno, Brno-Prague and this is possible only by means of traffic signs, which we know, for example, in the surroundings of larger agglomerations. The ODS club mentioned its motion for a resolution so that the government would elaborate the possibility of discounting motorway signs for the period of reconstruction, which is still at least two to three years ahead. So that's about as much for me as a summary. Thank you again for the discussion. I believe that the subcommittee mentioned by colleagues will also address this situation, and I firmly believe that the government will also address it towards the future in terms of planning major reconstructions of our transport infrastructure. As I have already announced, I will then make a motion for a resolution for the KDU-ČSL Club in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u83	Thank you. I am sorry that I may have said that we are ending a detailed debate. I am ending the general debate at the moment. The Minister has applied, but I will ask you, Minister, to open a detailed debate first so that we do not reopen the general. [[A deal with the Minister.]] Do you want the final word? I would now open a detailed debate, and Minister, if you are interested in speaking at the beginning of a detailed debate, please. I have started a detailed debate and you can speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u84	I just wanted to conclude by thanking you for mostly constructive debate. I would like to promise that we will deal with the things that are here. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Just two short notes. I haven't been in the Ministry in five years, I've been there for four years. YES, it's five years old, I agree with that, and we're doing everything we can to get these things fixed, and they're in my opinion. I wasn't making excuses for the past. I just want to say here that we started 133 kilometers of new highways without D1, which is a number that is comparable to Mr. Šimonovský, who was mentioned here, but I'm not mentioning him in any other direction right now, just in terms of statistics. Just one note that came out here. Let's see if we can do those bays on those sections. It's not easy, but I'm going to put the task of ŘSD into new sections immediately. And what did my colleague Jurečka say here that we could do three stripes in these new sections. We'd have a big problem. Because if we were to design three lanes, we're going to the EIA territorial decision, land purchase, and basically we'd shift the reconstruction or modernization by about five years. And I don't think we can afford to go to D1 because those sections would fall apart in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u85	Thank you, too. Now, then, a detailed debate. I have three applications. Mr Kaňkovský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u86	Good evening again. As I have already announced in the introductory words, I will present to you the motion for a resolution on behalf of the KDU-ČSL MEP, stating that I would then ask you to vote on the resolution after the points so that everyone can decide freely which item will be supported by the resolution. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on an extraordinary point Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the crisis situation on motorway D 1. 1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways failed to ensure the transitability of the D1 motorway during the winter period. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure without delay through the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways such steps as will result in an accelerated renewal of full operation in a limited section of the D1 motorway, at which time it is a section of 94 to 105 in both directions, so that further closures are allowed at the earliest from 1. 4. 2019. 3. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to propose legislative and non-legal steps by 31 March 2019 to reduce the risk behaviour of truck drivers. 4. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of backbone roads in the Czech Republic by 30 June 2019 with an emphasis on minimizing the risks associated with restrictions on operations in repaired sections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u87	Thank you. Please submit the motion for a resolution and gather more. Mr Polanský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u88	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members of the Government, Members, I will repeat the resolution I have already read in the general debate: the Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to prepare an independent audit of the procedure of the Directorate of Roads and Motorways when planning, implementing and supervising the D1 contract, modernisation of section 12, exit 90 Humpolec to exit 104 Větrný Jeníkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u89	I, too, thank you and please Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u90	Thank you. Good evening again. I will also repeat my proposed resolution, namely: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Minister of Transport to prepare a discount for 2020 on motorway coupons for motorists reflecting the lack of quality and transitability of key parts of road infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u91	Thank you. Those were all the applications. Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u92	As vice-chairman of the MP's club, I would like a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-003-226.u93	Three or four? Three. Thank you. However, I do not think that within one minute after that we can be able to catch either the final words or the vote, so I would like to conclude today's meeting, interrupt this item, and meet tomorrow over the proposed programme.
