ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - First Reading We re-interviewed this item in the general debate on Thursday, 20 December at the 24th meeting. I'm repeatedly asking you to remain calm in the room so I can at least hear myself. Thank you. I ask that the seats be taken by Minister Alena Schillerová and rapporteur Mr Jan Volný. We will continue with the interrupted general debate. At the moment, Mr Ferjenčík is the first member of the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, I suppose, for the last time at first reading, I will try to persuade you to vote in favour of rejecting this proposal, which does not really bring anything positive and, on the contrary, burden tradesmen and small entrepreneurs with a completely excessive bureaucracy, which will not bring extra money to the state budget. For this reason, I had an analysis of the alleged EET revenues operated by the government, boasting how many billion EETs in the first and second waves allegedly brought. I must stress that there is a huge difference between the first and second waves and the third and fourth that the government is trying to introduce now. Two huge differences, as a matter of fact. Firstly, the third and fourth wave was abolished by the Constitutional Court as an unconstitutional and disproportionate intervention in the freedom of business in the Czech Republic. That's the first factor. You are trying to enforce a law that has already been abolished by the Constitutional Court as a violation of the Constitution. And secondly, while retail and restaurant facilities are actually really possible to control the compliance with the EET Act in some way, it is not possible in the case of the third and fourth waves at all. The moment a room painter paints a room, it will be really difficult for the tax administration to make a fictitious check that he will be fictitiously painted a room to verify that the painter issues a receipt. Same with the plumber. A whole range of free professions where one-on-one transactions take place, indeed, those control options are absolutely minimal on the part of the state. And the only people who really make a massive profit on this are EET accountants. This is the only group in the Czech Republic that actually makes money on the third and fourth waves, because all businessmen will pay a flat fee completely senselessly, with the honest people who admit all their sales today just having to buy an extra EET box and pay money for it, cost nothing at all, and it doesn't turn out to be the dishonest ones because they just don't issue the receipt. Even today, according to the law, they must admit all sales, so the control option of the state does not really expand through the introduction of this law. So I'm going to try to make a statement as to how many billions are said to have been brought by the first and second waves. I had the opportunity to analyze only the alleged benefits of EET for 2017, we will certainly analyze the alleged revenue for 2018, but we really did not have time for this. However, the basic problem of the Ministry of Finance methodology, which claims that EET brings some billions, namely I suspect 5.7 for 2017, is that the whole methodology consists in taking autonomous growth in VAT collection, that is to say the VAT that the Ministry of Finance claims is due to growth in the economy, and then taking real growth in VAT collection, the two figures are deducted from each other. And the Treasury claims that the difference between these two numbers is automatically the influence of the EET, and in no way does this claim provide any other data. The main problem with this approach is that this autonomous growth is determined by the government's estimate of consumption, according to an estimate of consumption growth. Where I see the problem: Firstly, the growth in consumption is just an estimate of the Czech Statistical Office. The moment it changes by a few hundred million, which happens normally, suddenly it's like the alleged EET yield is going to change. This itself seems very strange to me that according to the government's methodology, when the statistical authority's estimate changes, the government's estimate of EET's yield changes. And secondly, what I consider to be a bigger problem is that this autonomous growth is determined by the government itself. It's just how many quotes should have been chosen because the economy is growing, that's what the government determines according to how convenient it is. That's why I'm operating on this infographic of how we're actually calculating the return of the alleged EET at the Ministry of Finance. [[It shows a photograph of Andrei Babiš with a finger on his lips. Under the photo it is written: Calculation of EET yield.]] Just because the government will freely determine how much autonomous growth they think is, and then it will say that everything else is due to EET. Why do I think this approach is problematic? First, in no way does the government take into account any further effects on the EET's return. For example, as the economy grows and inflation grows, more entrepreneurs fall into the category of VAT payers. It's just because entrepreneurs make more money because the economy is growing, they're going to go over one million and fall into the category of VAT payers. And logically, then, they're going to pay more for VAT. And it could be more than the increase in economic growth. Likewise, inflation has a similar effect. So when we have more VAT payers, logically, more will be collected. But in no way did the government evaluate how much this effect does, for example. These effects are a number of: change in the pattern of consumption, difference between foreign and other payments. And the government didn't evaluate it in any way, and it didn't take into account in its justifications how the alleged EET influence helps. Furthermore, when we use gross value added growth instead of consumption growth to estimate this autonomous growth, we see that the EET effect was minus 2 billion. And with this parameter in other fields where the EET was not implemented, that explains better the increase in VAT collection. And that's probably my main argument. According to the government methodology, if we use the government methodology to estimate the impact of EET on VAT collection, EET earned CZK 5.9 billion in fields where it was not implemented at all. Which is quite obvious nonsense. Just when we take the government methodology according to which EET's influence on VAT collection is estimated, EET "works" supposedly also in fields where EET was not implemented at all. Of course that's nonsense. It's obvious that the methodology lacks meaning. The Ministry should redo it and actually give us the relevant numbers, because we have no other choice but to think that the Prime Minister actually pulled it out of his finger. [[9.20 hours]] So much for the alleged EET revenue. In my opinion, the government is clearly overestimating them. And in that third and fourth wave, there's nothing to be expected at all. That's really just extra bureaucracy. So I repeat my proposal to reject this completely unthinkable law. For the last time, I appeal to you to support my proposal to reject the expansion of the EET for all tradesmen. Furthermore, if this proposal is not adopted, I propose that the time limits be extended by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u3	Thank you. President Kalousek has entered the debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. At the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies, we have committed ourselves to the various clubs that we will not proceed in a way that could be interpreted as obstruction. You don't have to worry, my speech really doesn't exceed 120 minutes. We are consistent in our opinion on electronic records of sales. I think his previous application has shown that there has been no promised settlement of the business environment. On the contrary, it has shown that although the current VAT collection is very often propagandistically highlighted by the Ministry of Finance, its real contribution will not exceed the costs borne by both tax administrators and entrepreneurs. It's just a cannon on a sparrow, dear, very little effective. On the contrary, what he has contributed very, very provenly to the disposal of hundreds of small establishments, especially in the countryside, has narrowed the availability of a wide range of services for rural life. It's quite logical, because big business, big corporations, let alone chains can deal with such burdens quite easily, while for a small businessman with a small turnover and often at retirement age, it was the last drop of government bullying against small businessmen and simply decided not to go on bullying and shut down their establishment. I believe that the only way to really meet the declared objective, i.e. to straighten the business environment, is to close this whole blind road and abolish the law. We will vote in favour of rejection at first reading, so we will read in second reading the amendment that would disturb the entire law, including the first and second waves, and finally we could breathe a little more freely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u5	Thank you, too. Next for the debate is Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am aware that I have performed here several times. I don't want to repeat myself. Yet some questions have not been answered, so I will repeat them. To begin with, allow me once again to summarize the general view and to follow up on the previous speakers, my colleague Ferjenčík, then my colleague Kalousek. This proposal does not really align and the EET does not align the business environment. EET, on the other hand, destroys smaller traders in places where there is a small purchasing power, because the costs associated with EET, for which the businessman must earn. In addition, with a planned label of a fraud who must be permanently controlled and monitored by the state. Economic growth, as we can see, is slowing down, and the government and Prime Minister have already noticed, even though we have been drawing attention to it for a long time and we have long followed reform steps to prepare ourselves for times when it will not be so good. But the foundation of the state's prosperity is not the growth of state power. There is no permanent mistrust and tightening screws for small businessmen. Private activities are the basis of the state's economic prosperity. And we will be happy for any person who can take care of himself, his family, earning money, offering his services to his surroundings, giving his surroundings a job, contributing to the state budget, social security of the state, and not dependent on the social support of the state at the same time. With this proposal, the government has been tearing down this natural model in the long run and planning way, showing that businessmen are being humiliated only to a mere source of revenue in the state budget for the massive increase in operating expenditure and the redistribution of recent years, where, moreover, businessmen need to be monitored and controlled permanently. As I say, EET for me, I've said it here before, is a symbol of distrust, which has been artificially motivated and fed by representatives of the government and the Ministry of Finance to create a social demand for EET measures. Moreover, this symbol of distrust is supported by disproportionate checks, fines and punishments for employee errors rather than for planned non-recognition of income. For example, later entered goods in time. For not changing time from winter to summer. Tens of thousands of crowns for violating the strictness of the law, but not for hiding, but only for trivial mistakes. According to the explanatory report, the income, which is the only summable, reached about CZK 78 million from 1. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By the way, you can see on the explanatory memorandum that we are being presented with alleged revenues for 2017, but with fines for the next period. But back to the numbers. 78 million crowns out of 7 677 fines, out of a total of 119 thousand and some checks. Average fine of CZK 7,000. It's such a tough explanatory note. It is on this number of controls that shows what kind of financial administration has gotten into the hands of the disproportionate whip on entrepreneurs, and the question remains whether it has approached it adequately, because in the other cases that we see in the Financial Administration procedure, we see absolute inadequacy and lack of investigation of the interests of tax entities. EET is a tool to be monitored online and supervised permanently and with a sense of distrust that entrepreneurs will pay for themselves. And how much is it going to cost, and how much is it going to cost? The Ministry in the explanatory memorandum foggy and RIA in this is insufficient. But indeed the EET is actually a symbol of the fact that the cost of my return, in this case, to the state's return, is paid by someone else, in this case by entrepreneurs themselves. In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry claims that it cannot be quantified, but gives quite specific figures as to how many billions it supposedly brought and will bring. I will not repeat here the thesis, which was actually said by my colleague Ferjenčík from his analysis, just repeat the thesis that I keep saying that every EET return is actually a virtual reality, because you cannot say with 100% certainty that the crown that is attributed to EET's influence is really a crown that was previously hidden or is an extra crown, rather because we are still in economic growth, that we came to the entrepreneur with a new customer, or maybe more so. [[9.30 hours]] I had a very conservative estimate here last year of the cost of businessmen, which I calculated at CZK 4.5 billion. There's a similar calculation on the State Watcher server. I am not even happy that I have come close to the truth in this. But another question I haven't been answered. How much does all this cost? Not just software. How many people are involved in EET in the state administration? Not just the new employees who were hired. What are the total wage costs, the cost of office equipment, the operating costs, and the total cost of these costs to taxpayers? We have not read this from the RIA, and it is a key question that points to the effectiveness of similar measures. So the questions to the Minister are: how much were the real, not estimated costs of implementing the EET? Complete. How much were the current costs for its operation and not only for its operation, but for all employees involved in their activities? How many civil servants did EET not only have to accept, but how many EETs are involved? My questions regarding the special regime, which is actually an EET paper equivalent, also apply. So we're introducing a new paper bureaucracy for businessmen, or the government is proposing it. How much is expected to yield from this special scheme, and how much will be the cost for all those officials who receive the receipts in boxes and paper reports? Of course, I am heading towards the adequacy and effectiveness of this regime with these questions. It's a burden on the smallest, not electronic, but paper bureaucracy. Wouldn't it be better and more effective to cancel the special regime and the entire EET? How much will be the cost of managing the special scheme, the paper record, when a small businessman with a CZK 200,000 in a year will be carrying boxes of paper receipts to check on the IRS every quarter of a year? I think it's completely nonsense from the point of view of efficiency. And the last question: How is the confidentiality of EET treated? Are there somewhere unique data where you can identify exactly according to the establishment, can you evaluate the customer structure, what the establishment makes most of? These are, of course, sensitive data that can play a role in a competitive struggle. And I want to ask you how we're treated, that data won't escape, and they won't become valuable and well-paid information in business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u7	Thank you. Mr Skopeček will be next in the debate, then President Fiala with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u8	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary's been whispering to me for ten minutes, so I promise her it might even be shorter. I have, of course, spoken to the EET several times, the discussion was interrupted, so I would sum up only the most important arguments and the main principles why, of course, I will vote in favour of this law being rejected at first reading. The first argument is that EET is an instrument that makes entrepreneurs automatically suspect. So it turns around the principle where the state has to prove that somebody hasn't paid taxes, so businessmen have to do it every day, 24 hours online to prove that they're actually innocent and that they do the taxes well. The second argument is that this is, of course, an administrative and bureaucratic burden. This is not only true of entrepreneurs, but it also applies to a state that had to employ hundreds and hundreds of employees. I wonder, Madam Secretary, how many people it was that are newly in Financial Administration thanks to EET. The third argument is that if we want to eliminate tax evasion, we must do so through a completely different path, namely the way of simplifying the tax environment in the Czech Republic, which is complex, and which is also complex according to many international organisations. The World Bank, which every year counts the number of hours that entrepreneurs have to use to meet their tax obligations and pay taxes, so it is more than 200 hours, and we are one of the worst or the worst not, but to a sub-average point in international comparison. Thus, if we want to eliminate tax evasion, we must focus on a completely different type of entrepreneurs, because I believe that here in the Chamber of Deputies we agree that tradesmen are not those who should dominatingly implement the state budget, that they will never be those who will dominantly implement the state budget, no matter what repression of entrepreneurs will be imposed on them, that tax evasion and tax optimization, although legal, is taking place not with businessmen, but especially with large corporations that can pay very expensive lawyers and in this complex tax system that we have been putting together for decades, they can move and find that advantage for their client. I'm sure that's not what businessmen do, but they don't have the resources for specialised tax advisors and lawyers, and they're undoubtedly worried about the administration that EET puts on them. I also reject the fact that the EET would result in a levelling-up of the business environment. No regulation has ever levelled the business environment anywhere in the world. We have to let the market operate without any regulation or minimum regulation. This is the only way for equal conditions to prevail on the market and that one type of businessman does not have an advantage over another type of businessman. After all, it is clear that this EET administrative burden will fall more especially on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because large business chains can only install some supplement to their software system, their sophisticated cashiers, which are long ago in those stores, and EET can easily handle. However, for a small businessman who has to buy the cash register, but does not only cover the cost of purchase, there is also a monthly cost of internet connection or software license that is needed for the EET, which, of course, has a dramatic impact, especially on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, not on large ones. And finally, maybe just a sigh of what it looks like when we have a dominant party that's not ideally anchored, but it's a marketing movement. I'm talking, of course, about the YES movement. Last week we registered how the ANO movement is beginning to stand up very much for businessmen, inventing the removal of bureaucratic burdens, once again the tradesmen become the centerpiece of the ANO movement world. But the problem is, the tradesmen are only interested in the YES movement at the ideal conferences. When we are talking about real legislation here in the Chamber of Deputies, we see one and one other bureaucracy rolling on the tradesmen one after the other. So the YES movement had an idea conference last week, and now this weekend, it's going to have a sort of convention where it's going to vote for the president and its leadership. There is no doubt that we will hear the way the ANO movement wants to focus on businessmen now. Maybe it'll fill the pages of the newspaper again, maybe it'll be headlines on the web. But when we act again in the Chamber of Deputies, the ANO movement will bring further regulation and further restrictions on our business environment here with its socialist government. I would like to draw my attention to this: Let us not look at the marketing of the YES movement, let us look at what is being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, what is actually being presented to the Chamber of Deputies, and this has nothing to do with defending the tradesmen. EET, its third and fourth wave, is another restriction on businessmen. And as they say, you can tell by the fruit. YES, he simply does not like tradesmen, he chose them as his target, he may do 20 more ideal conferences where he will stand up for them, but the legislation he will approve in the Chamber of Deputies will go against the interests of the tradesmen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u9	Thank you. The next one will be presented in the debate by Mrs Kovářová. Sorry, with priority rights... [[A Member of the Fiala of the Board prefers a Member of the Blacksmith.]] So the final order - Mrs Kovářová, then with priority rights, President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a number of arguments here that there is no clear evidence that the EET brings a really significant increase in VAT revenues. There have also been a number of arguments that talk about the burden on the smallest entrepreneurs. We have to agree to that. All the more surprisingly, after five years of repressive measures against small businessmen, the Ministry of Finance suddenly woke up and said that it wanted to make life easier for small businessmen, that it wanted to reduce the bureaucratic burden on small businessmen, and that it was beginning to consider introducing a so-called flat-rate tax for businessmen - VAT payers. [[9.40 hours]] Of course, a flat-rate tax, if this subject opens up, is a subject that the opposition has been talking about for many years. It must also be said that, of course, the government does not tell businessmen that if they introduce a flat-rate tax, it will be a relief for small businessmen, but at the same time it is considered that health insurance or social insurance would be raised. So if the government and we Members really want to make business easier for small businessmen, let us cancel the EET obligation for VAT payers, i.e. for those who have revenues of up to CZK 1 million, and let us start talking about flat-rate tax at the same time. That is why we have put an amendment into the system that says that entrepreneurs - VAT payers will be exempt from the obligation to have an EET. The Mayors and Independents Club will vote in favour of the proposal to reject the amendment to this law. If this does not pass, we will be pushing for the amendment I was talking about at second reading and we will be asking for your support for the reasons that are quite legitimate here. In conclusion, the state should be a good servant and not an evil master. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u11	Thank you. Mr. Fiala's priority right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, after all, a few more words for the SPD on the EET. First of all, I want to remind you that the SPD movement for the EET has never voted. No wave. And he's not voting for any wave. So let me give you a brief explanation. Of course, it is the availability of services, trade and other things mainly in the small municipalities we are losing. We may still remember a time when there was a barber shop in every village, there was a pub, there was a butcher, a sausage man. All we have today is multinationals. A lot of political parties here in the House have a mouthful of how they support small businessmen, entrepreneurs. But this law shows that it is exactly the opposite. This law destroys small businessmen, small businessmen, even medium-sized companies and records large multinational companies. He's just recording globalization. And I ask if this is a good thing for the Czech Republic. And it certainly isn't, because those multinationals are raising 300 to 500 billion crowns a year from the Czech Republic. So that's definitely not what we want. Furthermore, I want to say that those multinationals are definitely paying the highest tax numerically. They have the most employees, the highest turnover, the highest profit, and the highest tax probably pays. But you may not know that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the ones whose sum of taxes makes most of the revenue in the budget. And we're starting to lose it. Now let's say one thing. I sat several times, for example on Czech television, next to the Minister of Finance Pilný for the ANO movement, who said there "it's great, we'll collect twenty billion or over twenty billion." Today we know it might be a quarter. And I keep saying that even one quarter will be due to economic growth. But that's just one side of the coin. Where's the other side of the coin? How much tax have we lost on those small and medium-sized businessmen, the sum? How many must have ended? And please, there's no way to figure that out. So we only have one side of the thing, but we can't even figure out the other side of the thing. But of course, each of you gets the e-mails. The fact that in that village, in that village, it's not that or that there's no service, that they have to commute to the county town to buy anything at all. I mean, try to remember yourself, where in those villages around the cities or where you live, if there's a small shop, if there's a hair salon, a barber shop, a pub, if there's any chance they might have closed it. These are all the reasons why we will not vote for the EET. We just won't support globalization in the SPD. We want a small and medium-sized business to start up here again, and we're serious. One thing, of course, is criticism, though constructive criticism, but few offer solutions. We've been talking about this solution from the start, and that's, and it's been mentioned here today, a flat-rate tax. Everyone would have a clear flat-rate tax. If he's a hairdresser, a butcher, an innkeeper, everyone would have a flat-rate tax. We wouldn't need another civil servant to collect this tax, we wouldn't have to have other employees to control the complex collection of these taxes. And of course, all those civil servants have to sit somewhere, they have to shine, they have to drown, they have to have materials and other things. So these are things that, of course, we can't support. Because in 2017, for example, the government increased by 18,000 new employees. These are the huge billions that we are literally going through in the state budget. Which we can solve differently and constructively. So, in conclusion, let me tell the SPD that we will join the motion for rejection and vote in favour of rejecting this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u13	Thank you. Your speech raised one factual remark by Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u14	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to ask the Minister to respond to our reservations in the debate so that we could comment on them. I don't think anyone in opposition is going to go any further today, but I think it would be nice if this debate could actually take place here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u15	Thank you. Another for the debate is Mr Krejza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think all the arguments have already been made, it is not worth repeating, just briefly. I don't trust numbers about a huge increase in selection. And I don't blame the Treasury. Probably anyone who presents something is trying to make it look good and the results are good. So that's it. What I would like to advise you, however, is that you quickly repair all your gas lines, electricity, paint them and do all your masonry work as quickly as possible. Because it is obvious that the coalition of ČSSD, KSČM and YES will accept this law, and the consequences are white. All the craftsmen you're about to meet, or most of them are at the age of fifty plus. What can we expect? So either the honest ones will learn to work with EET and the services will get more expensive, but in most cases they may retire and not do it. In any case, you can't get them, just like it's a problem today, and if you get them, you'll pay much, much more for them. And the contribution to the Treasury? Well, in this case, I don't trust him at all. We will vote as the Civil Democratic Party to reject this law. I believe that this is in favour of all our citizens. After all, ideas have already emerged that the village pubs, which, thanks to the ban on smoking and the introduction of the EET, ended up subsidizing them. That, I think, speaks very well of what will happen to our businessmen. So please use your head and reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u17	Thank you, too. Let me read you a few apologies. Vice-President Tomio Okamura apologizes from 9.00 to 9.30 for reasons of work, Minister Lubomír Metnar apologizes from 15.15 to the end of the day for reasons of business, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes from today's meeting from 9.00 to 11.30 for reasons of health; Mr Lipavskýý apologises from 15.15 to the end of the day for reasons of business; Mr Onderka apologizes today from 17.00 to the end of the day for reasons of employment. Now President Bartošek has waited and has come to the debate without prior rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we all agree that taxes should be paid. This was also the reason why, in the last parliamentary term as members of the government coalition, we started talking about the introduction of the EET for one simple reason - because the SAO talked about tax evasion in these areas amounting to approximately CZK 40 billion. Of course, and I think we agree, it is right that these 40 billion, or at least part of them, should be part of the state budget, from which schools, roads, or health care are then paid. At that time, as a KDU-ČSL, we pushed for the introduction of the EET to be staged into four stages, with the fact that we said that we wanted a thorough analysis to be carried out after the introduction of the first and second stages, and only on this basis did we decide whether we would even introduce the third and fourth wave of tradesmen. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance has not submitted a relevant analysis of whether tax collection is linked to the fact that the economy works well and that taxes are levied on this basis or whether higher tax collection is related to the introduction of the EET. For this reason, and this is absolutely crucial for us, we cannot support the introduction of further phases of electronic sales records and we will vote in favour of rejection at first reading. Since the government coalition has a majority and this law will most likely be released for further reading, I say in advance for the KDU-ČSL club that we will put forward such amendments, which, for example, in the first and second stages will remove from the EET businessmen who will have a turnover of up to CZK 1 million. We will also insist that the introduction of phase three and phase four is nonsense. So much for the KDU-ČSL club to know how we will proceed in the case of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u20	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, members of the government, colleagues, some of you have complained that we have been discussing this for a long time - first reading. And I think, and I'm optimistic that it wasn't unnecessary. I'll tell you why. In the long run, we put up with arguments as to why we think that the law is not good, that there is no need for electronic sales records, and in the end it turns out that the biggest government movement is already hearing about it. He filled me with optimism, and now I'm gonna keep the irony and sarcasm sideways, the ideal turn that the ANO movement has now announced, or a few days ago, that he's gonna start taking care of businessmen. I'll keep my irony and criticism, and I won't talk about what's been going on here in the past few years towards businessmen and small businessmen. Today's our first chance to prove it. If you're serious, support our motion to dismiss. Believe me, the tradesmen will appreciate it. Or maybe it's just a marketing trick. You're gonna say you support businessmen, but you're really gonna adopt laws against businessmen in this vote. And since I take this seriously, when the Prime Minister or the Treasury Secretary says it, how businessmen are now at the centre of the ANO movement's attention, I welcome it. It is evident that our long - term patient reasoning brings fruit. Aside from the fact that you're picking things up from our program: flat-rate tax, reducing the number of checks - that's good, because in the end it's not important to drag on who said it first, it's important to find the votes, get the majority and enforce it. And I'm totally serious. So today we have a great chance of helping businessmen, small businessmen, really craftsmen, craftsmen who are the foundation of our economy, and together with us vote, let us reject it, and then we will believe that you are able to promote some support towards businessmen, not just to talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u21	Thank you. Next for the discussion is Mr Válek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u22	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm a little hoarse, but I couldn't do it. I learned at elementary, high school during socialism about class struggle and the fact that the capitalists eat up the little ones and so on, I guess you learned the ones you are plus or minus my age, the same thing. And in Slovakia, I experienced something similar a time ago in health care, when PENTA, using its political instruments, essentially liquidated the state health sector or put it on the hunt. It destroyed academic health care and the result is that Slovak health care is private and this also corresponds to the quality. I really appreciate this not happening with us. However, I understand that Agrofert, using its political instrument, is destroying small competition with the help of the EET, so that it can spread gradually to these areas. What I don't understand is that those who have always claimed to protect the workers and that they protect the small businessmen, that is, the communists, support this. This means that I wanted to ask when those tradesmen, through Mr President's Communist friends, became your class enemies. When they became your class enemies, that you want to put another package of duties and taxes on their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, even without priority rights, President Farský is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, not only in the election campaign, we said that the state should serve, not interfere. We say that after the election, and that's how we act. I must say that the consistency in opinions is needed and that it also benefits the entire political culture. I have at least two crucial moments here that I would like to ask how to understand. An ideal conference of the ANO movement, which says that it will now help businessmen, will not throw sticks at them, will treat them as those who are the good soil of every society and help them. We have a law here today that's gonna make their lives very difficult, but the essential thing that he tells them all: we look at you all without distinction as cheaters and as those who are supposed to meet our state budget. That is the main message and the main rule of this law. So an idea conference against what's happening here today at first reading. The second moment, which was not overlooked, is the statement by President Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister, about the fact that there are no tradesmen in the Czech Republic, in this case I think it was about roofers, that few of them are studying and dwindling and who knows what will happen next. But please note that there are many businessmen who are today, approaching or already at retirement age. And if you give them another duty, which makes them even more suspicious, they'll stop doing their job. They just say, "I don't need to be here to prove myself to anyone, whether in paper or otherwise, risking someone sitting on me, kneeling on my knees and making my life difficult." On the one hand, to despair of the lack of craftsmen, the lack of tradesmen, and, on the other hand, to refer to them as cheaters, as those who are responsible for not everything in the state budget are finances, simply contradicts themselves. And these incoherences, these contradictions in at least two cases in the last 14 days, they don't leave me calm and I have to ask them here. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] We believe that it is not that there are tradesmen for the state, but he is here to stand for businessmen, to stand for citizens. In the past, people, perhaps many with rising positions and positions forgot it, have created a state in the past to serve them, to serve them, not to work for them, and to blackmail them with taxes that are equally valid, which, if they don't pay today, will not pay even after EET, but will be referred to as cheaters and those who try to avoid taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u25	I'm gonna cut you off for a second and ask your colleagues and colleagues for some peace in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u26	This situation, this atmosphere of distrust, is simply harmful to society and it is a pity if this proposal is also spreading. It would still be acceptable and justified if the figures supporting the first and second waves, if these figures were somehow verified and their implications for the budget were indisputable. But as we have heard, and as has been demonstrated, it is not so. I would just like to remind you that the comments that were made here in the enforcement of the e-booking of sales - in that final part, the debate was closed precisely because they were questioned, downgraded - then they were accepted by the Constitutional Court, thanks to the ODS proposal, and just part of the EET Act was abolished. Let us listen, really make arguments and please be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u27	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, in speaking to my colleague Farský, I was thinking, when he compared the state to the dragon - Mr President, please tell my colleague Farský that the honest one should be the friendly service, but the dishonest one who is dishonest at the expense of the others, not only the fictitious depersonalised state, so let him be the hard work to bring back to honesty by legal means. As for Professor Válek's touching concern for the Communist Party and its direction, let him really leave this concern to us through the President, we can manage. We have the amendments prepared, and we will put them forward, towards small businessmen, such as Christmas carp vendors, etc. etc. But, above all, the law must be passed at first reading in order to make amendments. I'm not thrilled that they have to be this way, we also said that EET is a good idea, but a worse execution, and now it's just that the implementation is being corrected. So we're not going to vote for rejection, and we're going to try to adjust the material to suit the honest ones very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u29	Thank you. There are a few more factual points. First of all, Mr Farský, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u30	A colleague who approached me. We didn't quite understand each other. I think the state is supposed to focus on its activities, but it doesn't have a lot of activity and some groups to intervene by distrust and by saying that some of them cut taxes, so to overwhelm them all with administration, throwing sticks at everyone and discourage them from doing business. Entrepreneurs are those who feed the state, those who allow social benefits to be distributed, those who allow education to be paid. After all, it is extremely important that these people who may have been active in order to be successful in their professions, to feel support from the state, and not that if they want to start a business, they will learn that they will be waiting for the first year after they have arranged dozens of stamps and permits, so they will be waiting for dozens of checks and from day one they will become cheaters. That's what I'm criticizing. The air raid that's completely useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u31	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u32	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to Mr Kováčik through Mr President. The honest ones are the ones on whom the third and fourth waves will fall negatively and bring them nothing at all. When a businessman pays all taxes properly today, logically he doesn't need an EET box, the state can't earn anything on it, and the only thing that will happen is that he will have higher costs, but it has absolutely no benefit for him. That's the first thing. Indeed, the honest third and fourth waves will be the worst. And secondly, as far as you're concerned that there's some kind of carrier that can be reduced by EET, that's why we have put forward a proposal before all six opposition parties, and now we've only put it on the table as pirát, just so that you can't make excuses for it, that the EET is being cancelled for non-VAT payers, which doesn't introduce a third and fourth wave, within which we can deal with things like the sale of Christmas carp. However, I don't think that would have been necessary if we hadn't implemented a third and fourth wave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u33	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u34	Reactions to the last speaker, too. I mean, the financial authorities already had tools for the dishonest ones before the EET was introduced. All we're talking about here is whether it's supposed to be a surface tool that automatically makes suspects even from the vast majority of honest businessmen who are honest. Of course, the financial authorities could have wiped the dishonest ones before. And, of course, the ODS and all normal people will say and confirm that it is right for financial authorities to prosecute those who do not pay due taxes. But here we make suspects automatically out of all honest businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u35	Thank you. At this point, I have no application for a debate on this point. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I've already said about everything here in three quarters of a year, the arguments are largely repeated. So let me only respond to those where I think maybe something new has been said. It really didn't sound much new, but where I feel like I should say something. To analyze the pirate party. I assume and hope and believe that the law will be passed to second reading and that I will be given the opportunity to participate, I will actively participate in all the guarantee committees, where this amendment will be ordered, and we will discuss these matters in detail. However, the pirát did not provide any specific alternative analysis. This means that it is only criticism and criticism of the Ministry of Finance's estimates. Of course, this does not change the fact that I am prepared to discuss them constructively in the context of expert discussions on committees. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Pirate comments claim that MF estimates were based on real growth in economic variables... I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm gonna be able to do it in voice today...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u37	Everyone in the room, please. Move any debates to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Pirate comments that MF estimates were based on real growth in economic variables, which would, of course, be wrong if that were the case. But it's not like that. The MF was based on nominal growth and VAT is quantified as a standard. This means that pirate comments consider it more appropriate to quantify the use of the variable so called. gross value added, however, this aggregate corresponds less to the VAT base, i.e. its use is inappropriate. Of course, it is difficult to estimate the growth of individual sectors, especially after only two waves work. There's certainly something right about the argument that there would be a statistical method... or a large-scale statistical inquiry directly from the subject would probably be very, at least, interesting, but it would mean, of course, in addition to the direct cost of the state, the burden of all the subjects examined. I have a detailed analysis, and I am ready to debate it on expert committees. [[10.10 hours]] Now it's just fast to a few things that have been said here, and it's all over again. The Constitutional Court did not cancel the third and fourth wave. He's given time to think about exceptions. He only canceled the government's orders. Penalties - just for your information, and I will submit accurate statistics to the committees - have been imposed only on one third of the errors in the EET Act. Two thirds of the Financial and Customs authorities dealt with a warning or agreement on the spot. That means the sensitive approach they're calling for is here. As far as the novel is concerned, the amendment introduces a system, a new offline system for the smallest businessmen who ask for it and meet the conditions, and it doesn't burden them at all. This means that the receipts can be collected at any local workplace and basically today those who do not have an EET, on request, if you go to the hairdresser, the hairdresser must give you a receipt and must send a receipt on an ongoing basis. Those are the things they're basically doing now. I'm not talking about confidentiality. We have a special workplace here. There are twenty officials who have the NBU's clearance and who are the only ones who can access all the data from the control reports and from the EET and in aggregated form provide them for use for the control activities of the Financial and Customs Administration. This means that data trust is absolutely alpha and omega for us, and no one has shown that it would be any different. Not even historically. There has never been any data, it has not been proven that it has been misused or used in any other way. I repeat again, who cares about costs, you will find them on the website erzby.cz. There will be no increase in officials. I repeat the question several times. Three hundred officials of the Financial Administration and a hundred officials of the Customs Administration were recruited for EET's control activities. And a little point, Mr. MP Skopečka. Again, I've said it several times and again, if you're interested, you'll find it on the Ministry of Finance's website. The World Bank - and now I speak for the part of Doing Business, which concerns the activities of the Ministry of Finance - has been showing improved results since 2016, we are moving on to better partitions. Within the V4 we are in the best place in terms of administrative complexity, even in 2017, when it already worked for a particular segment, this means for the first EET wave. Of course we are working on reducing tax evasion, look at the European Commission's data on VAT Gap, where we have moved, and I am not giving our estimates at all, I am telling the European Commission's figures how we are reducing VAT Gap. Since 2014 comparison, we have European Commission figures for 2014 and 2016. You have six percentage points. That's a huge success. And, of course, the data is improving further. We're working on simplifying taxes. We have Project Dana. I'm not gonna jump into rhetoric here at all. I've said it in the media several times, if anyone came up with what. We have a flat-rate tax in the government's statement. It doesn't matter. So let's get together and put it together. It's good for our businessmen. And we'll do it. Last one. Let me take one last sigh. Please release EET to second reading. Give a chance to the Association of Czech Traditional Trade, which represents 7,000 stores. Give a chance to the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, which represents 260,000 business entities. Give a chance to the Trade and Tourism Union, representing 6,000 entrepreneurs, the Association of Hotels and Restaurants representing 1,500 entrepreneurs and the Association of Industry and Transport, representing 11,000 entrepreneurs, let their representatives come to the Committee of Guarantees, where the amendment will be ordered if you release it for second reading. Have them tell you their experience with the introduction of the EET in the first and second waves. All of these associations cooperated on the amendment, supported it and offered me this participation and promised it. And in conclusion, let me share one very powerful experience that I experienced three weeks ago in Olomouc at the SAMOŠKA event, perhaps you have heard it in the media, where I was after two years, two years ago, when the EET was being implemented and now after two years. There were 400 representatives of retail stores, all of whom have already had an EET for almost a year. The moderator spontaneously asked them - who's against EET? Five hands up. Then he asked - who cares? About four of them went up. Who supports the EET? The rest of it went up. That means retail dealers who have an EET and sat there, so they raised their hand to support the EET, but at the same time they called out to me: But for everyone please! For everyone. So give this novel a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u39	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. The rapporteur is not interested. Priority right, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u40	I'm sorry, but the Minister didn't speak until after the debate. I have no choice but to react like this. A hundred times repeated lie doesn't become true. It is not true that the Constitutional Court did not cancel the third and fourth EET wave. If he hadn't canceled it, he would have paid already. We can't say from the microphone here, Madam Secretary, that the Constitutional Court didn't cancel when he canceled. Then the debate is completely out of control. If he didn't cancel it, how come he's not paying?! That's a simple question, Madam Secretary. You said in your speech, you'll find it in the tapestry that you refute the repeated argument of the opposition that the Constitutional Court didn't cancel the third and fourth wave. If you're right, it's a long time ago, and we're not discussing anything today! So don't have businessmen and entrepreneurs. First of all. And two. The strong Olomouc experience you described here is the key last sentence. If I did, so did he. What kind of attitude is that? We have to, so do they! That's the strong message. And we say no one has it! That's the way to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u41	Another priority right, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, of course I wish you a strong experience from Olomouc three weeks ago, but I confess that I have had many very strong experiences when I talk to retailers in retail or restaurants about EET and they are very complaining about the system. How heavy it is and how expensive it is. And I'm always begging them to write me a few lines. If I could not simply quote the experience of one or the dealer at the retail store when discussing the EET. And everyone's telling me - I'm sorry, Mr. Kalousek, I'm sorry, but I don't really want to be bullied by the IRS. I'm not saying that this may actually happen, but they speak under the influence of the fear that you have provoked with your politics. They just feel the fear, and they vote under that fear when the host asks them, but the finance secretary is there. It's just so common. But enjoy your experience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u43	Thank you. We have finished the general debate. The final word has been given, and at this time it is time to vote on the proposals for return and rejection, as was said during the first reading. I'm registering the check-out request, which I just did, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. [[Gong.]] At the same time, I will call our colleagues from the lobby. At the 19th meeting, Mr Zdeněk Munzar presented a proposal to return the applicant for completion. We will therefore vote on this proposal first. Who is in favour of returning the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 196. Registered 179 Members, for 79, against 95. This proposal was not adopted. [[10.20 hours]] Furthermore, at the 19th meeting, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík presented a motion for rejection. We will therefore vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of rejecting the motion? Who's against it? Voting number 197, entry 179, for 80, against 95. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking if there's another proposal for a guarantee committee. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u44	I would like to propose that the guarantee committee be an economic committee, because the budgetary implications are only virtual, while in the real, real economy and in retail it makes problems great. So I propose an economic committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u45	Thank you. Is there another proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. So, first of all, we would vote on the counter-proposal, that is, on the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the proposal being directed to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Voting number 198, registered 180, for 81, versus 88. This proposal was not adopted. We will now vote on establishing the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 199, registered 180, for 127, versus 26. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking who's interested in doing this. Mr Munzar, Mr Pávek, then President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u46	Thank you. Given that it affects the business environment, I propose the economic committee next, because it has a business environment in mind. And let me just make a small point, Mr President. You said Zdeněk Munzar made the proposal. If you said Luděk, it would be a great honor. That's how I roll because I'm Vojtěch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u47	Did I say last name? No. I said the MP. [[Member Munzar: But before that.]] Before. I'm so sorry. The President withdrew his proposal because he also wanted to propose an economic one. There was also Mr Pávek, then Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u48	I propose assigning the committee to constitutional law, for the sake of preventing what we have already been through, namely the abolition of the law by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u49	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík. [[More Members report to the right of the hall.]] There was a tie. Mr Kupka, then Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna propose two committees. A Pávek colleague beat me to one. However, the second I propose to the Health Committee because it concerns doctors. I am afraid that this will lead to early retirements, especially for those who are serving doctors, who, in the sense of hundreds of times, have died a donkey simply hangs a trade on a nail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u51	Thank you. All dobře, Mr Klaus, then Mr Kupka, then Mr Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u52	We're here to discuss the law on free lunches and stuff like that. Well, I'd like to discuss the EET and the school committee because you and Mrs Valachová have already destroyed the school buffet with a delicious decree and other crazy things. They don't exist. And now the kids won't even be able to buy snacks at that little grocery store in front of the school because it won't exist. So this concerns the nutrition of children in schools and, please, the assignment of the school committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u53	Yes. I've registered this proposal. Mr. Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u54	Hello. I would like to propose that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development should also deal with this law, because, as has been said, this, of course, can have a very serious impact on regional development, which we are all calling for. But this is actually clearly a stick under the feet in many ways and in many areas of regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u55	Thank you. Now, Mr Kalousek, Mr Jurečka, and Mr Holomčík has yet to report, I think I am mistaken. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u56	I think he should take care of it, and I dare suggest it, even the Environment Committee, because when you see those piles of unnecessary paper, we just don't protect our woods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u57	I've registered this proposal. Mr. Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u58	Thank you. I would like to propose and ask really seriously now that the agricultural committee should also deal with this, because it also concerns a large part of farmers and food professionals. It is not quite as funny as some Members here are laughing. But I really think that to assess the real impact it will have on small farmers, farmers' markets, but also for the said area of pre-Christmas fish sales, where I think they deserve to be dealt with by the agricultural committee as well. Thank you for complying with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u59	Thank you. Of course, I automatically assume that all proposals are meant quite seriously. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u60	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Since this is actually a control of financial flows, I would like to propose a committee of auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u61	Committee of Auditors. Mr Gazdík, then Mr Peksa. Let's see which committee we have left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a mandate and an immune committee, because, once this law has been approved, there will certainly be attacks on us by politicians and on those who have approved it, and that is why we should look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u63	Mr. Peksa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u64	I would like to propose a foreign committee, given that many of these businesses are operated by foreigners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u65	Thank you. [[This is Mrs Cernoch. The President with a smile:]] Let me see which one it is, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u66	I have to, Mr. Chairman. [[He's laughing.]] Dear colleagues, colleagues, as my colleague Klaus has already announced here, the introduction of EET will definitely affect low-income groups. And I'm sure we can agree that neither in security nor in armed forces are there people who would belong to high-income groups. So I propose a Defence Committee and a Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u67	Thank you. I'm asking if there's another suggestion. Mr. Ferjenčík has yet to find a committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u68	Thank you for the floor. Since a number of businessmen end up either at work or in early retirement, I think it is quite appropriate for the Social Affairs Committee to discuss this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u69	Social Committee. So we have a closed set? Can we proceed to the vote? So first of all, we're going to vote that the next committee should be... [[Members are still reporting in the right side of the hall.]] We're closed, Madame. I will ask for peace in the hall and propose to the other committees. First, it will be the Economic Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 200, registered 182, for 84, versus 56. The motion was denied. [[10.30 hours]] There was also a motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. There's an interest in signing off, which I just did. I'm going to ask you to re-enlist and re-enact the kvorum. The number of applicants has stabilized, so I will vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 201 is 179 Members, for 83, against 73. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal was the Health Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who the health committee is for the commandment. Who's against it? In the vote number 202 is 179, for 80, against 83. The motion was not accepted. The school committee was also proposed here. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of the Education Committee as the next committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 203, 179 Members voted in favour of 82, against 83. The motion was not accepted. The Public Administration Committee was also proposed here. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration as the next committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 204 registered 179, for 80, against 77. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal was the Committee on the Environment. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment to this committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 205, 179 Members are still registered, for 80, against 85. This proposal has not been adopted. The next proposal was the agricultural committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the commandment to the agricultural committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 206 is 179, for 82, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Then there was a motion for a supervisory committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is next to the next committee for the commandment to the Supervisory Committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 207, 179 Members voted in favour of 82, against 83. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there was a proposal for a mandate and an immune committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 208, 179 Members voted in favour of 76, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal was made by the Foreign Committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of this proposal to the Foreign Committee as the next committee. Who's against it? 179 Members voted in favour of 75, against 86. The motion was not accepted. The next was a motion for a defence committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote 210, 179 Members signed in, for 77, against 83. The motion was not accepted. And the last one was proposed by the Social Committee. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the Social Committee's commandment. Who's against it? In the vote number 211 entered 179, for 79, against 80. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The voting statistics have improved significantly for all present, and no other committee has been designated to discuss this proposal. Furthermore, in the general debate, there was a proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days by Mr Feri. [[Ferjenčík!]] I have Mr. Feri's comment here. I hope that's voteable. Anyone with priority rights? President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u70	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, Mr President. I'd just like to say maybe. Now I've been watching the secretary shake her head like that. Here, less than ten minutes ago, the Minister said in the final words, how he invites all those representatives to committees, and where we can all discuss this and comment on the social aspects of small business. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, through the President, shows me the answer from the Ministry to discuss this matter here at the House plenary, and then we did not assign this government proposal to the Economic Committee in the vote! I would, therefore, if this is no longer done because of the media and because the videos are being filmed here, the speeches, then actually this debate, which the Minister here spoke about, both desirable and final, will not take place in committees that actually have relevance to the bill. I find it at least inconsistent with the previous statement made by the Minister, and it is a pity that it will simply be limited to the committee that we have approved here. This is not really the open debate that has been announced here by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u71	Another priority right, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u72	I would like to express my embarrassment at the vote, particularly on the Committee on Constitutional Law. We are discussing an amendment that was forced by the Constitutional Court's finding because the original proposal was found to be defective in terms of constitutional law. Not only was he found to be defective, but the whole proposal, which simply did not abolish the whole law, had five dissenting positions of constitutional judges, i.e. important authorities in the area of constitutional law, so it is clear that we are moving on the brink. We're on the verge of constitutionality. The novel is trying to accommodate the discovery, but does it really suit him? And who else would judge and guarantee this to the House other than the Constitutional Legal Committee? And you don't care! Madam Secretary ANO says he invites everyone to the debate, but she just doesn't want it. You don't care about talking about it in the Economic Committee, what it does in retail, and when it does something in retail, what it does in trades. It'll do something about the trades, and the economic committee should do it, but you don't care! You don't want this discussion. You're just friendly talking about how you want to talk, but then you just want to lead, and you want everyone else to shut up. This is not a parliamentary debate! So I would like to address at least the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee and at least the President of the Economic Committee, so that when the House behaves in this way ignorantly to the parliamentary debate, which should be important, at least they take the law on their own initiative and discuss it in the House of Deputies' body, so that they can tell us, as the Chamber of Deputies, what the opinion of this parliamentary body is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u73	Thank you. I was informed that Mrs Černochová also proposed the Security Committee. We're in a phase where we can let this vote, we're not gonna vote short... And the honourable Member confirms that by noding my head, so we will still vote on the commandment to the Security Committee. Mr Stanjura, then Vice-President Kubíček, then President... So, please, let us now vote on the commandment to the Security Committee. I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 212, 181 Members signed in, 78 against 90. This proposal was not adopted. Mr Stanjura, then Vice-President Kubíček, then President Fiala, has now claimed the first priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u74	I would only correct my colleague, President Kalousek, who said that the House does not wish to discuss this bill in other committees. So the House is a bad name. The whole united left doesn't want it. From communists to socialists to the ANO movement. They're afraid of the debate. The rest of the House wanted to debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u75	Vice-President Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, the budget committee was elected on purpose because he is sitting here. Each of the Members shall have the right to take part in the deliberations of any committee and, of course, may, if the Committee allows him to do so, speak and speak. On the other hand, it was said here that any committee chairman may propose on his committee to take the press voluntarily to his committee. So any of these Presidents can vote on this in economic, budgetary terms, so it is, Mr President, through Mr President. So I don't know what that was supposed to mean, and you've done such a beautiful theater that we've assigned it to all the committees. That was really just a theater. If we were to propose an economic committee and a constitutional committee here, perhaps the vote would have been different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u77	Thank you. President Fiala, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u78	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll follow up on my previous speaker. I'm going to be the chairman of the Economic Committee here now. I am actually convinced that this law is very relevant to the economy of the Czech Republic. After all, we've all talked about this a few times. As Chairman of the Economic Committee, I will propose to this Committee that this Committee, although not approved here, should devote itself to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u79	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We'll continue with this point. And now I see an application with priority rights from the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u80	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but even purposeful arguments should have some level. To say that this has been assigned to one single committee, not because of the issues it deals with, but where it sits, I really do hear that for the first time in 28 years in politics. It means that when we discuss the amendment to the Constitution, which, of course, will also interest all of us, it will be allocated to the Committee on Budgets, because it is sitting here. [[Laughter from the right, applause.]] Otherwise, I thank President Fial that the Economic Committee will take this at least on its own initiative, and I also ask Mr Benda to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u81	Thank you. If no one else is reporting, we have one vote left before us in the debate, and that is an extension of the deadline by 20 days. That is what we will decide in voting number 213, which I will begin, and I ask who is about extending the deadline by 20 days. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 213 of the 181 Members present for 81, against 76. The motion was not accepted. This has exhausted all the proposals that have been put to the vote. And I can thank the representatives of the plaintiffs and rapporteurs. I'm ending this point. And the application - if it's for a vote, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to question the vote. It's just that I voted yes, and I'm stuck on drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u83	Which vote, please? For the stew.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u84	The last vote that just happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-002-032.u85	With the extension of the deadline, yes. Okay. Thank you for your comment. And now I can really, with a calm conscience, release from the rapporteur's table the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur and end item 32. Before we begin the next item in our meeting, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the House, from 10.30 to 19 pm by Mrs Langšádlová on a business trip, further apologize from 12.30 to 15 o'clock for working reasons by Mrs Eva Fialová. Another apology is from 12.30 to 13 pm due to a business meeting by Mrs Ivana Nevludová and we have here Mr Jan Bauer's apology from 15.30 pm due to a foreign trip. We will continue with item 11 of the approved agenda. This is an interrupted point. We interrupted him 1. 2. at the meeting of the House and before the beginning of the detailed... Sorry. I remind you that we are still in an open general debate, in which the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is now signed, who is also the petitioner, but is duly entered into the debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] Minister, I'll give you my word as soon as it's quiet in the House. If you're still debating the EET, please be in the foyer. We'll focus on the point.
