ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws /German press 545/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal is made by the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u2	Have a good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present a government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u3	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! I can't hear you, please move your actions elsewhere, if necessary. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u4	Furthermore, the law on judicial executioners and enforcement activities. I would like to submit that this law was developed when I came to the Ministry of Justice this April and took over this legislative activity, which was in full effect, after Dr. Kněžínek. I have acknowledged the need for a new law, because the current regulations do not work as they should, and execution, at the execution, is a lot of people waiting for a solution to the question of execution. We have about 840,000 people, half a million of them even have multiple executions. It needs to be resolved and in some way meaningful. The aim of solving this problem is, in particular, the problem of multiple executions, so that measures are proposed to limit the number of execution proposals applied and, at the same time, to ensure that unsuccessful execution procedures are terminated at an appropriate time to prevent the accumulation of such executions. In order to achieve this objective, several measures must be taken. First of all, it is proposed that the concentration of enforcement proceedings be brought against the same mandatory one judicial executor. In principle, all such proceedings should take place in the case of a judicial executor who conducts proceedings which were initiated first against the compulsory person. In general, the possibility of choosing a judicial executor for which he is filing an execution proposal would remain open. However, if, upon receipt of the application from the register of executions initiated, the judicial bailout officer finds that another enforcement procedure was brought against the compulsory execution procedure at the time the execution procedure was initiated, he should be required to refer the execution order to the judicial bailout officer who is in charge of the proceedings previously initiated. The transitional provisions on the proposal are based on a different principle. On the basis of transitional provisions, proceedings initiated after application should be concentrated on the local nearest judicial executor in charge of proceedings initiated prior to the effectiveness of the application. The application further provides, in principle, instead of a judicial fee, for the reimbursement of the costs incurred in connection with the newly adjusted executor's activities in the first phase of the execution, which should be paid to the judicial executor entitled. As a result of the introduction of the concentration of proceedings, the fact that the compulsory of multiple executions will only be able to communicate with one judicial bailiff and will therefore be better oriented in its procedural rights and obligations. The principle of one bailout - one mandatory will also simplify state supervision and supervision of judicial bailouts. First of all, it should be pointed out that, as a result of the concentration of the proceedings, there should be an increased concentration of enforcement procedures, which are conducted by the same competent authority against the same compulsory one judicial executor, thereby reducing the costs of execution. Against the introduction of the local jurisdiction of the judicial executor, the most associated link between the judicial executor and the territory, the individual areas of which may differ substantially in terms of the level of income and property generally on the part of the debtor and the degree of debt. At the same time, all executioners would be assigned a similar number of executions. Secondly, we propose the introduction of a compulsory advance on the costs of execution. Exemption from the payment of the advance in the case of execution is envisaged for the recovery of maintenance against a minor child, compensation for damage caused by an accident at work and so on. According to the applicable regulation, the commencement of execution for authorised persons is free of charge. The bailout officer will be able to satisfy the costs of execution from the advance in particular, but if successful, the costs will, where appropriate, be met from the advance to the beneficiary from the recovery. Thirdly, the cessation of the effective execution after three years, which must also be stressed that this instrument is important. Stopping such execution will be the duty of a judicial executor, who will decide even without the proposal and consent of the authorized. The effective execution will be stopped if it has not taken place during the last three years or the partial satisfaction of the enforced obligation. The rights of the entitled are protected so that he is given the opportunity to lodge an additional advance on the costs of execution at the judicial executor's request, thereby averting the cessation of execution. This will be possible repeatedly, for a maximum period of nine years. Furthermore, the proposal addresses some of the partial problems arising from practice, e.g. it provides for the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the payer in the execution of wage reductions and other income. A flat-rate compensation of CZK 50 per calendar month is expected to be payable to the salary payer in respect of one employee. The proposal is in line with the case law of the Supreme Court. Newly, it provides for the enforcement of the management's decisions on severance payments and similar income. It specifies the rules governing the interaction of the payer with the salary provided to the bailiff or introduces the duty of the Executive Chamber. In the course of the development of this bill, I have noticed a lot of opinions that some executives prefer so-called. territoriality. I do not resist any possible changes if the House decides and wishes for a combination of these options, because I believe that both variants are possible and passable. However, they need to be perfectly aligned so that they work in practice. In this situation, I am asking you to support this government proposal and its launch into the legislative process, and I believe that all other ideas should be discussed within the constitutionally-legal committee, subcommittees and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u5	I, too, thank you, and now the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Chvojka, should take the floor. Before arriving at the microphone, Mr Kalousek apologizes to us between 18.45 and 22.00 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, Madam Secretary, colleagues. As for the substance, the material aspects of the press 545, the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and the Enforcement Order, I think that the Minister of Justice has explained it very extensively and comprehensively, and I do not want to repeat what she said because she said it in principle as it is. I'd point out that we have two prints here that concern executions, executions, civil order. There's the government here, the so-called one. A snowman, and then we have a point 50 here, which is a parliamentary proposal signed cross-cutting across representatives of various political parties. I believe, firstly, that we should merge the debate, because the press is logically related, even if everyone wants something different. [[19.50 hours]] Certainly, the debate, as the Minister rightly said, should be directed to the ground of a constitutionally-legal committee, or to a subcommittee on insolvency and execution, or perhaps to another working group. There is certainly no point in conducting any hourly dialogues or monologues about whether territoriality is good or not, whether regional or district, whether snowman is good or not, it really belongs on the ground of a constitutional-legal committee, where I think we're going to debate this definitely long and wide, because it's not a very simple issue. Therefore, that would probably be all for me, with the fact that I dare once again to propose a merged debate with regard to this point and the following point. [[Gong.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-009-049.u7	Yes, thank you. [[Gong.]] I've recorded the proposal, so I've called my colleagues to the O.R., and we're voting on the merger. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out, please log in with your cards again. For those who are coming, we will vote on the merger of the general debate on paragraphs 49 and 50. We already have enough presence in the room, and it looks like our numbers are more or less stable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of merging the debates. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 107 Members and Members of Parliament in the 249 vote, for 106, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we have merged the debate with this. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mrs Richterová apologizes to us from 7:40 a.m. for family reasons, the treatment of a family member, and Mr Skopeček apologises from 7:30 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. So now I have to open point 50 so that we can merge the debate.
