ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws /German press 326/7/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 326/8. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Mikuláš Bek among us. He's here alone, no coworker escorted him. [[There's noise in the room.]] I would like to ask the Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík to comment on the amendments for the plaintiffs. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you. First the Minister, then the Senator as a representative of the Senate. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approved the draft law on 13 September 2019 at the 34th meeting, as amended by a number of amendments, and the bill was forwarded to the Senate on 8 October 2019. The Senate subsequently discussed the bill at its 12th meeting on 30 October and returned it to the Chamber of Deputies with two amendments. The first amendment interferes with the rules on cutting trees and consists in releasing a sentence that defines a tree that threatens the smoothness of rail transport or the operability of the runway. According to the petitioner of this amendment, by leaving this sentence in the proposed legislation, there is a risk that healthy trees, which do not pose any real risk to running on the runway, will be cut precautionaryally. At the same time, it can be feared that the preventive area application of the provision would lead to an uneconomical use of the funds of railway operators. [[14.30 hours]] The Ministry of Transport does not identify these arguments and does not agree with the deletion of the definition. I note that the vast majority of the incidents caused by the fall of trees into the track were caused by the fall of completely healthy trees. The concerns of the surface felling parties throughout the runway protection zone are also not justified, as cutting should only be subject to trees which are at an impact distance from the runway, not all trees. Account must be taken of the fact that, in addition to the interest in protecting the environment, there is an interest in protecting human lives and in preventing serious damage. As regards the interest in conservation of nature and landscape, it should be recalled that the proposed legislation was also approved by the Ministry of Environment. The second amendment consists in releasing part of the data that the Ministry of Transport could lead to in the information system of uniform travel documents. In particular, these are data for buyers of the single travel document provided when purchasing it. The Ministry of Transport does not agree with this amendment, as registration of buyer data is important for the possibility of issuing an invoice and a tax document, establishing an account within that information system, fulfilling the transport contract and checking the electronic travel document. Entering personal data into the system by the buyer is completely voluntary. There is an alternative to this process and the system records only what the buyer enters. Although it is possible to admit that without data relating to the buyer, the system will be functional, but without the possibility of registering these data, customer comfort will significantly deteriorate. It can therefore be summed up that the Ministry of Transport proposes to approve the bill in the wording in which it was referred to the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. For the record with the replacement card number 22, Mrs Němcová votes. And I'll ask Senator Mikuláš Bek to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present the amendments with which the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has returned the amendment to the House of Railways Act. The first amendment concerns § 10, which regulates the protection of the runway. The Senate proposes to delete the second sentence of the House proposed by the new paragraph three, which reads as follows: "The operator of the runway shall have the right to remove and reduce tree and other crops which threaten the safety or smoothness of rail transport or the operability of the runway where, following prior notification by the railway operator, the owner has not done so within a reasonable period and to the extent specified in this notice.' And now the incriminating sentence: "The trees and other crops that can hit the track gauge in their fall are trees that threaten the safety or smoothness of rail traffic or the operability of the runway." In this case, the Senate agreed by a majority of votes across the majority of Senate clubs to dismiss the second sentence on the proposal. Before stating the factual reasons, it should be noted that this phrase, by defining tree and vegetation that threatens the safety or smoothness of rail transport, effectively enforces their removal from the railway operator. Although the first sentence declares that it is only the right of the operator, this definition of law makes it de facto an obligation. What kind of operator would risk not removing what the law directly refers to as a threat? It can therefore be assumed that, in the case of the approval of the House text, the removal of the crops will take place across and through mass. The first and most appropriate factual reason for releasing that definition is that, according to the declared wishes of the actors concerned, such as the Engineering Federation, this adjustment was originally intended to cover a railway which is clearly specific in terms of safety of operation. However, the proposed amendment seems to be an omission of the authors of the amendment about the runway, which, within the meaning of this law, includes not only railway, but also tram, trolleybus and cable lines. In particular, it is quite common for urban tram and trolleybus lines to be surrounded by nearby trees which, according to the proposed version of the amendment, should be removed. For example, it would be an alley according to the tram line at Prague Castle or a large part of the trees in the park on Moravian Square in Brno. I doubt the authors of the novel intended such a thing, but the wording adopted by the sněmovna implies such cutting. Therefore, it would be a good idea to remove the problematic sentence from the novel. Most senators, however, doubt that the proposed text is suitable for the railway itself. The role of Parliament is undoubtedly to articulate the partial interests of the various actors and then to find a functional compromise between them. The newly proposed drastic flat-rate adjustment for the removal of crops along railway lines is undoubtedly in the first place in the interests of the Railway Infrastructure Administration as a railway operator, which would significantly simplify the agenda and relieve the existing need for assessment and demanding consideration of each particular case of threat. It can also convene, for example, for engineers who are rightly concerned about their safety and passengers, because the current neglected state of the area around the lines raises general concerns. However, in the Senate's view, it is necessary to respect other interests in the search for legislative solutions, especially the rights of owners of adjacent land for their use and the interest of environmental protection. In particular, in the current situation of drought and bark sludge, the insatiable cutting of the extreme trees along the tracks can cause extensive damage to the forest vegetation at a distance greater than the distance defined in the amendment. Moreover, following the commendable acceptance of climate neutrality commitment in the last week, the role of forests as a natural tool in the absorption of carbon dioxide increases. The rights of landowners along the lines should also be respected as, in good faith, they have been able to use these land in good faith and the insensitive intervention of felling would, in particular, result in a drastic fall in the price of wood due to bark sludge, cause them considerable damage. The Senate therefore considers that the short-term legislative solution is the adoption of an amendment without an incriminate sentence. The amended wording would still allow railway operators to intervene in justified cases of threat. And many senators believe that it is necessary to work quickly on a new, more detailed adjustment to this issue, which, in addition to the option of felling trees, would open up a positive solution to the safety of rail traffic, particularly in the direction of better technical transport by warning systems. It is also worth considering what I call attention to by the engineers themselves. While in Germany, in the case of weather warnings against storms, railway transport is halted with regard to safety risks, in the Czech Republic, drivers are forced to drive even in risky weather conditions. I am convinced, however, that the adjustment of the crops around the lines should be made from the Ministry of Transport's pen, not by the way of parliamentary amendments. It should respect the aspects of transport safety in a balanced manner, take into account the interest of environmental protection and intervene as closely as possible in the rights of private owners. The second amendment concerns the treatment of personal data. I will remind you that the amendment to Act No. 194/2010 Coll., on public passenger transport services, introduces a central database operated by the Ministry of Transport in connection with a single ticket. It requires the collection of data which do not have the character of personal data and which are therefore smooth and useful to be centrally registered. Secondly, however, the proposed modification also requires that information on people travelling with a purchased ticket, as well as those who purchased the ticket, be sent to this central database by the terminology of the bill of the information system of uniform travel documents from carriers and ticket vendors. The content of the Senate's proposal is to release the mandatory collection of a number of data on ticket buyers from this central register, both natural and legal persons. However, the Senate did not find any real reason for centrally registering those buying tickets. I would remind you that at European level, with regard to the privacy of citizens, we are debating the abolition of the so-called abolition. PNR - Passenger Name Records, a system that collects personal data about airline passengers in this way. The original purpose, quite strong, namely protection from terrorism, did not stand up in the eyes of the European Court of Justice, especially for its surfaceness and untargetedness. Just to be safe, she was collecting data about everyone. Two years ago, the European Court of Justice decided that agreements on the introduction of PNR between the European Union and Canada were contrary to primary European law. It is therefore clearly inadequate for a system of registration of passengers and ticket buyers to be introduced also for electronic purchases of train tickets. [[14.40 hours]] Moreover, according to the petitioner, the only reason for the central registration of ticket buyers is that they have the possibility to exercise rights from transport. This reason is, on the one hand, much weaker than that currently reviewed PNR and, above all, not valid. Even today it is possible to buy online tickets anonymously with most carriers and it is also purchased and travelled anonymously when buying a physical ticket at the ticket office. For the purchase of physical tickets at ticket offices, anonymous purchase and travel will also be preserved after this amendment, as the Minister in the Senate also said. And even today, of course, it is possible to claim traffic rights only on the basis of the presentation of a travel document. The identification of the complainer is then usual during this particular complaint procedure for contact during the complaint procedure. However, it is certainly not necessary in advance at the time of purchase of the ticket. In this context, it is not possible to recall the Chinese system of general control, which includes, inter alia, the travel of individuals on railways. We would not like to create unnecessary collection of citizens' data only theoretical possibilities of similar models or even simple misuse of data from the database. After all, it is a sad fact that misuse of personal data from a more secure database is only a matter of time. I conclude that the reasons for the central registration of ticket buyers according to the Senate are not clearly given, and therefore the principle of minimizing the processing of personal data incorporated into the legislation on the protection of personal data must be taken into account, but that is essentially the embodiment of the constitutional principle of minimizing public intervention in the lives of citizens, as enshrined in the Constitution. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for a kind assessment of the changes proposed by the Senate and I hope for their fair assessment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u5	Thank you, Senator. I ask whether the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, wants to comment on the proposals tabled. Are you interested in commenting on this point or not? [[Not until the debate.]] You're signed up for the debate. Excellent. Then there was the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Marek Novák. I don't see him in the hall. I am therefore opening the debate, and Mrs Matušovská is the first to sign up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to comment on the change made by the Senate in the amendment to the Railway Act. I have to say that the issue of felling trees has been discussed with length, not only at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, but mainly at the Economic Committee, where we have actually heard the representatives of the Railway Infrastructure Administration, but also the Federation of Engineers, colleagues from the Railway Inspection, and on the subcommittee for firefighters, this issue has been discussed due to the interventions of the company firefighters of the Railway Infrastructure Administration. In this discussion, we all agreed that cutting trees in the runway protection zone is absolutely necessary. I don't know if the Senate colleagues had that information. It is a pity that fellow senators did not find time to find out more about this issue, because they would find out that Mendel University of the Forest Faculty actually has a certified method of felling trees that is favorable in the interests of nature conservation. The purpose of the proposal was to create as simple a procedural procedure as possible under the Railway Act as possible to ensure the safety of rail transport from unexpected falls of damaged trees, but, as the Minister has already said, but in particular, I stress healthy trees to the track and subsequent train ride on a fallen tree ending possibly by derailing the train. The aim of the proposed modification is to protect the safety of passengers and train operators, because after the fall of the tree into the track, this means, of course, endangering lives, health, without any claim to compensation. As well as the issue of uniform fare, which is currently a big problem, especially after the Sunday start of the new train traffic graphics, when the performances after the Czech Railways were taken over by private carriers on long-distance connections in regions as well. Here I hope the Department of Transport and Regionals realize that they have taken innocent passengers hostage. And I wonder to the regions that have mostly approved public transport quality standards, that they did not find out if their selected carriers had sufficient fleet to meet these standards. I also have to say that it was a mistake, and these days it also shows that the Ministry of Transport in the amendment, which is part of the Railway Act, is a law on public passenger transport services, has not heard the demands that we have requested and which we, as a party, draw attention to in the long term, on the non-existent implementation plan for the liberalisation of the rail passenger market for a transitional period, as set out in the fourth railway package. We could forgive ourselves and save passengers the problems they are currently facing. The fourth railway package for the state-established railway carrier has set up a so-called ten-year transitional period in which States have the opportunity to implement the liberalisation of the passenger transport market gradually and managed precisely in order to avoid structural shocks on the railways that we are seeing these days. Finally, colleagues, I would like to ask all of you to support the parliamentary version of the Railway Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u7	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Kolovratník. I'm sorry, with priority rights, I have overlooked President Stanjuru. I didn't look right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u8	I know you're used to looking left, but sometimes traffic doesn't hurt. I would like to respond to the part of the Minister's speech where he spoke about data collection. I find it incredible that the government's bill contains such a tool to collect more and more passenger data. There is only the color of the eyes, the size of the shoes, or the state of the bank account from which someone paid the ticket in the e-shop. I don't understand at all. Is this how we imagine digitalization? There's no argument for that. There is no rational argument for that. Only the state, in this case České dráhy as a 100% owned company want to collect more and more data. I'm almost sure those passengers will be included in a lot of action offers from all the carriers who will have the data at their disposal. There's no rational reason. That is the main reason why we cannot vote in favour of this bill. I say very often here that the state behaves like an insatiable fang. Try explaining to me, Minister, what the carrier needs this data for. He doesn't need them for anything. To tell me not to go on an electronic ticket repeatedly, that's bullshit. I'm sorry. Ask someone who wrote at least a simple program how difficult it is or how easy it is to prevent it. So stop collecting more and more data about our citizens. You don't need it for anything. Such assurance as to how data will be protected, I think many of the citizens of the Czech Republic have experienced the fact that even more renowned carriers from Western Europe have stolen a complete list of all bank cards and so on. Also, these airlines are being sassed by the fact that it will never happen to them and that it will be 100% protected. And it happened. It happened repeatedly. For example, British Airways, if you would like to know the example of someone losing millions of credit cards and data, and then being fraudulently paid for those cards. Why do we want to increase this risk in the Czech Republic? Because someone's using online shopping, so they don't need to use the classic stone cash register, so we're punishing them? Or are you planning on buying a cashier, and I'm gonna give you an I.D., and you're gonna collect numbers? What's the difference between a paper ticket and an electronic ticket? Why do you even want to keep saving the data? It doesn't make any sense. But the Minister is on the verge of saying that this part of the Senate amendment is rejected by the Ministry of Transport. There's no reason for that. Instead of longing for a uniform travel document, as a substitute you will collect more and more data. We cannot support this bill precisely for these reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u9	Thank you. And now, therefore, Mr kolovratník. Didn't I miss anyone this time? No. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues. I'll be brief, though now I'm sad from the ODS position and I didn't expect an argument against the bill, virtually. against the House version, on the contrary, the Senate's support. Yet I will talk about another thing, and about what concerns me, about that sentence, which was the object of the Senate's rejection of the matter of felling trees. And I really want to explain very briefly what I explained to a number of citizens who sent me e-mails. The sentence, the provisions, as my amendment is, please, is not draconian. It's really about the philosophy of the entire view of rail safety, to protect the track. It needs to be explained that the current situation is really not ideal and does not work. It is about the fact that if the railway manager, the infrastructure manager of the SŽDS asks for cutting, must relatively complicatedly demonstrate hazards or damage, poor tree health. Often it is decided that from a dendrological point of view it is okay, and the cutting, although the tree is needed just above the track, is not allowed. Květa Matušovská was talking about it. She made a proposal in the legislative process, which, in my opinion, was not bad at all, was quite more radical from my point of view, the provisions of Law 114 on the Protection of Nature were directly excluded from it. And that might be what the conservationists were afraid of. That could mean the potential shins in the protection zone. And here I want to explain our proposal, and I rely on the request that you support the House version, the original one. He says that SŽDC must ask the Railway Administration, the Railway Authority, for permission and only for trees that are potentially dangerous. Imagine some curve where it changes with distance and tree level. Very simple, a 15- or 10-meter tree that's 20, 25, 30 meters from the track, no one can even jump because it wouldn't prove that such a tree threatens the path. But the truth is, and it's fair to say, and that's about the world view, the balance, whether we want to give more priority to people's health and protection and safety, or nature. Trees that will be near the runway, and there are unfortunately many such, at a distance of five and six meters and are high, so yes, they can be cut down after the possible adoption of this proposal. But please look at the energy law that we have inspired. There is simply no discussion, there is clearly given. I don't want to delay photos of derailed trains, blood photos from the driver's station. Really, thanks to the courage of the drivers, the machinery, and the timely intervention of the extraordinary events, only this year there were about 10 to 15, they ended up with "only" derailment or minor injuries and not death. So please, I don't want to scare you, but let's see from this point of view. The railroad manager can only cut down those trees that are really threatening. Definitely - I must say no - there is no danger of draconian creation of any passes or shavings far from the track. And the final supplement. We talked about it with the senator, I checked with the transport companies. Yes, even transport companies will be able to take advantage of it and are happy to do so. An example from my region, from Pardubice. Trolleybus line from Pardubice to Bohdaneč spa surrounded by trees, it is not possible to modify or clean the trees there today and again it causes dangerous situations and also great costs. So that, too, should help to some extent. And the last thing I noticed from the Senate. The protection zones are different. For cable cars, it is only 10 meters, for regional railroads 30 and only for the nationwide 60. So that, too, is the answer to that fear. Certainly, believe me, there won't be any crazy holodecks in the Czech Republic. And perhaps by some assurance, the opinion of Richard Brabec, the Minister of the Environment, who sees this as a reasonable compromise between the protection of human health and the protection of nature. And I want to thank the Minister very much for his approach. So please support the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. A point of fact, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u12	I would like to respond to Mr Kolovratník's speech. I don't think I surprised him - I wasn't talking about trees. By burdening the bill with unnecessary collection of personal data, you have reduced the number of votes in favour. It's that simple. So I would like us to argue in the debate - Mr Kolovratník spoke about the trees, I did not talk about them at all, I, from our point of view, characterised the main obstacle to supporting the proposal. Whether in the House or in the Senate version. The Senate version, of course, is releasing it. Maybe the Senate version could have gone even more radically in the launch, I admit, but to respond, please argue to your previous speaker, not something else. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u13	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of my colleague Kolovratník, who said he didn't want to be haunted, but here he was talking about the blood of the drivers. It seems to me that it really is a haunting, and it is bringing in a pointless aspect that I think does not belong in this debate at all. It does not belong here either, whether it is the protection and health of passengers and their safety and protection of trees, the protection of nature. Because that is not the case at all. In this case, the point is that someone just wants to simplify the possibility of cutting across the lines. Since current legislation, as it is, already allows the possibility of cutting around the lines, both in an accelerated 15-day regime, it means that one who wants to cut around the lines when, within 15 days, this is announced to the environmental protection authority, this will only be expressed if there is no area in any way threatened, such as Natura 2000 territory or protected areas, where, of course, cutting in particular is necessary. And in the event of a serious risk, it can even chop immediately and subsequently announce this. At this point, this law makes it possible, so maybe I don't see any reason why anyone is asking for the possibility of cutting to the extent that it will be able to cut down without any notice to a pretty large extent. I don't know if Mr. Kolovratník would be able to tell how many trees, how large the area in the Czech Republic is. How many trees would we lose by approving this law, this amendment, as he proposes with his amendment. Because when we look at how dense the railway network in the Czech Republic is, and mostly it leads through the valleys where trees grow on the slopes, I can't imagine how much damage it would be to the environment. So, Mr. Kolovratník, can you figure out how that would affect me in some way? Thank you. I am, of course, asking through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u15	Yes, thank you for complying with the Rules of Procedure. And Mr Kolovratník cannot answer you now because there are two factual points. First Mr Adamec, then Mr Jurečka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u16	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, my colleagues, I have one thing to say. If I had to choose from those versions, I'd choose from each. But other than that, when we're talking about safety, I think that the safety of people on the lines in general should be priority number one. I don't think there's a chance of some wild cut because it costs a lot of money. And I'll admit I'm so sorry that there's been an adjustment in the Senate, because it's more important for me to protect the personal data of passengers. And that will determine what version we will vote for. That's the problem I see. Of course, we've been talking about those trees for a long time. At the end of the day, there's a beautiful commercial going on TV, thinking about T-Mobile watching fairy tales, when a train rides through the country and a tree falls on the track, slows it down happily and looks at a fairy tale, a Christmas idylle. But in real life, it looks completely different. So please, security is one-sided. On the other hand, the Senate version does not question the need to maintain the track's surroundings. So for this reason, we will support the Senate version, because protecting personal data for us is priority number one. It's about the personal freedom of every passenger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u17	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I am actually responding to Mrs Balcarová through Mr President. I would like to give a specific example of which I have a personal experience, i.e. also as the Minister of Agriculture, when I was repeatedly approached by the directors of river basin undertakings as land owners around the railway body, that the railway office had ordered them to cut down some of the trees that were at risk of endangering traffic on the railway body. But immediately against that decision in the order of days came the decision of the nature conservation authority, which said not to fall. And now there were two decisions against each other with the same legal force, and they could differ to the maximum in the amount of the penalty. And what was the director's decision to make? And we've been dealing with these disputes for months, and we haven't been able to solve them. This House version clearly states that in these key moments, the health of drivers and passengers and their safety are somewhat more important. můj tatínek's a lifelong driver. Try to imagine the optics that you're in a locomotive cabin that goes 100 miles an hour, and you're going to drop a big tree. Will you risk being threatened by health or serious health damage? The House version doesn't say that everything around the track to the height of the trees and distance from the railway body will be cut off. There's no way he's saying that. But it gives the weight a little bit more to the safety of those who take the train. And I think he's okay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u19	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anyone enrolled in the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the conversation. Is there interest in final words? The Minister and the Senator will have the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u20	Thank you so much. I'd only dare to react briefly. And I stress - this is a possibility, not an obligation for the railway operator to degrade or remove trees. That's the first, most important thing. There won't be any bare plains here, as some of the words of the previous speakers can make an impression. And the other thing. I would like to take a stand on personal data. As Minister of Transport, I have the same interest as colleagues on my right in the protection of personal data. Colleagues here asked why the buyer information was needed. And I'm saying that anyone who buys an electronic ticket, anyone who buys documents on the Internet gets different things, so some data provides, it's common. Then why are they needed in this case? So it's to be able to issue an invoice. In order to be able to issue a tax document. This is so that an account can be created at all within the information system. In order to be able to use this system via a mobile application. This system can also be used without registration if the buyer wishes. But every time he does, he'll have to re-enter at least an email address atp. Why does he need it any longer? Why is that necessary? This is for the performance of the transport contract itself, where means in case of refund of fare, payment of compensation for delays, etc. they will be paid in favour of the buyer. This information, which the buyer will voluntarily put there, is in his favour. Thank you. I would like to request the approval of the House version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u21	Thank you, Minister. And now the senator has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief remark. Major Terazky says, "Drink! Spit it all out! And that sentence is, of course, comical in the context of that book with its bizarreness, because it's just not in proportion to common sense. I think that any interference with the private rights of owners should be in proportion to the level of threat. And I don't know if you're all aware of the numbers behind our debate. In the last six years, the number of train collisions has reached about 70 to 90 per year. Luckily, they didn't kill each other, and the wounded are units between one and three a year. By contrast, 13,000 car collisions occurred in 2018, with many deaths, severe injuries, slight injuries, but none of us thought that we would kill all the animals precautionaryly. And cutting down trees within that range of the track is just a similarly radical step. And I cannot agree with the claim that this is only the operator's right. It is the incriminating sentence that de facto makes it a right duty, because simply no operator will risk accidentally in an accident, because it did not comply with the law that says it is a risk, it did not act preventively. And that's why people will resort to cutting for precautionary reasons to protect themselves, because the law says what is threatening the trees. So from the Senate's point of view, I repeat, it's too sharp a definition, and the Senate thinks it's appropriate to consider another form of action that would specify this problematic part. And there will undoubtedly be an opportunity to do so at the nearest amendment to the railway law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-001-003.u23	Thank you. And I will now call our colleagues from the lobby, because we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm registering an application for a check-out that I've just granted, and I'm going to ask all present to rejoin with their cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 326/7, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 326/8.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the text approved by the Senate. Who's against it? Voting 359, registered as 176 Members, for 68, against 93. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Kvorum is set correctly on the information board. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to House press 326/7.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 360, 180 Members signed in, for 132, against 28. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you all, and I finish this point. Opening point number
