ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 530/ - First Reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore make a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health. The main reason for the presentation of the law is the adaptation of two Union regulations, namely Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed law and rules on animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection products, and Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers. The Regulation on official controls as a whole takes effect on 14 December 2019. The Czech rule of law should therefore be adapted to that regulation within this deadline. The Public Health Act is one of the several laws implementing the adaptation. In connection with the implementation of those Regulations, certain new, in particular notification obligations for persons importing or producing materials and articles intended to come into contact with food, as well as certain new competences for the Ministry of Health, are included. In addition to the implementation, the Act on the Protection of Public Health and the Act on Specific Health Services identified provisions relating to state health surveillance in the field of public health protection, the application of which in practice was assessed as problematic. In the field of health protection at work, adjustments are made, with the aim in particular of reducing administrative and economic burdens on business operators. For example, it is possible to submit, within the framework of the categorization of work for physiology factors of work for work that are risky, professional evaluation carried out by an authorized or accredited person instead of costly measurement. In addition, the duplicate and time-consuming procedure for drawing up and discussing the text of written rules on safety, health and environmental protection is removed. At the same time, amendments are proposed to follow-up to the ongoing legislation on the protection of the health of workers, in particular when working with chemicals and mixtures, both at national and international level. The proposed legislation includes, among other things, the related amendment to Act No. 636/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended. The incentives for the modification of individual provisions arose from regional sanitary stations, the State Health Institute, health institutes and professional medical companies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled brings the Czech rule of law into line with the Union's regulation. If it is not accepted, the Czech Republic will not fulfil its obligations arising from membership of the European Union. For this reason, I ask you to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u3	Thank you, too. I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mr Špičák apologizes today between 19.30 and the end of the day for family reasons. Mr. Rakušan volunteered, but I don't know if he wanted to take advantage of the priority right at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u4	Thank you. Mr President, we exercise the right of veto together with the KDU-ČSL MP, i.e. the STAN and KDU-ČSL MP, to discuss the law in Section 90 para. 2. Indeed, we believe that the transposition standards that are presented to us are simply put forward lately, and then we are under some kind of time pressure when we have to express ourselves unnecessarily quickly. So please note that we are applying the veto for these two parliamentary clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u5	Thank you. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Olga Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u6	Hello, esteemed members of the government, dear colleagues, just very briefly allow me to make a proposal for an amendment to the Public Health Act. It has already been said that the reason for the submission is the need for the adaptation of two Union regulations. At the same time, however, it should be pointed out that it is precisely in connection with the implementation that new, in particular notification obligations, are being introduced and that, beyond implementation, some provisions have actually been identified concerning, in particular, state health surveillance in the field of public health protection, the application of which was not entirely ideal, and that is why this will change. However, there are other areas that deserve our detailed attention. Therefore, it is good that § 90 will not be applied to this. I would like to point out, indeed, during this advanced hour and in all brief, that this press also brings news to the normal running of, for example, summer camps. The proposal newly establishes an obligation to notify the competent public health authority, the regional health department, the name and surname of the responsible person present at the school in nature, which is more than five days, or the recovery event, for each run, and the telephone for that person. I understand this duty in the event of extreme situations. But it seems to be exactly the kind of thing that is more like another bullying of the state. It's really a question of whether it's strictly necessary for those recovery events and schools in nature. We are pleased that this will also be discussed further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-008-043.u7	Thank you, too. And I'm opening a general debate that I don't have applications for at the moment, so I'm asking if anyone's applying. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the Minister or by the rapporteur. It's not like that. The proposals that we should vote on, the return or rejection did not come up, so we will deal with the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed a proposal to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Is anyone else suggesting a committee? It's not like that. I'll call a colleague in the O.R. just in case. Let's take a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the commandment of this proposal to the Committee on Health as a guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote No. 248, 144 Members and Members are registered, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Health Committee as a guarantee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion on the next committee's commandment. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee. It doesn't look like anyone has any other proposal for another committee. This is how we dealt with the first reading of this press and its discussion at the moment, and we will move on. [[Noise in the hall.]] Opening point
