ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-003-216.u1	216. Information from the Prime Minister on the Government's progress on the European Parliament's decision to adopt double food quality I ask that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or another member of the government take the floor. That's not happening. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the MP's club, has been given priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-003-216.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam and gentlemen, I am the appellant of this point, so I will take a few words before I make a procedural proposal. Those of you who have been following this topic for some time, so you know that the topic of food safety, food security - these are two different concepts - the theme of self-sufficiency in food production, the topic of food quality, the theme of food quality, is a topic that I have been dealing with for, say, twenty years and a significant part of this time, I have only reaped ridicule or questioning that it is not an important topic, that the market will solve it all, that we do not have to worry about it, that and that and that and that and that, and that, and that, as far as the problem of the dual quality of food arose years ago, that is the situation where, under the same name in the same packaging, but with the same declaration, other raw materials content in Central and Eastern Europe, other preservatives, other main raw materials, other percentages, just the goods are different, even if they look identical. And even trade representatives claim that manufacturers, multinationals, especially Western European companies, force them to take these things away, these modified goods, otherwise they get nothing anywhere, that they simply have to take a version for the Eastern market, a version for the Western market simply won't get here for the Czech Republic. That's what the sales reps say. I have no reason not to believe them, but it is a problem that has existed for many months or many years. As citizens of the Czech Republic, we are placed in the role of citizens of the second category, as if something inferior, and this is justified by the fact that our consumers have different taste preferences, the raw materials available to us are different from those available for example. in Germany or France. And it impresses me that it is simply when somewhere in a can of pig meat can be replaced by a poultry compartment, that it is neither about the availability of raw materials nor about the specific taste preferences of Czech citizens, but that it is about something completely different. Later, especially in recent weeks and months, even those who laughed at me have suddenly become the fire defenders of Czech interests in the fight against double food quality, and I must say that even after the vote in the European Parliament, which has preserved de facto double food quality and where the representatives or their fellow competitors have voted against Czech interests, they continue to be fire defenders, perhaps just because they are before the elections, the fire defenders of the fight against double food quality, i.e. the Czech national interests, face further. I must say that the KSČM did not embezzle in the vote, it voted against the double quality of food. It's not just about food, it's about laundry pills and stuff, but that's not important right now. We have a point on the table today, which is the result of the vote, the response of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you so much for putting us on that point. The response to the vote should have been that we wanted to hear the Prime Minister's report, and we want to continue to hear it, about how the government of the Czech Republic would react to the problem. The Ministry of Agriculture just, I want to believe, in response to the House's interest here in discussing this point, has prepared an amendment to the Food Act, which responds to this issue, puts the double quality of food between unfair practices, proposes some sanctions there. So it is not a toothless proposal, and I think that we should deal with this very quickly, the response of national legislation to transnational decisions. I personally, as the plaintiff or promoter of this point, insist that this point be discussed in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. None of them are here, they have other duties, they're excused by the service. That is why, at this point, I would like to propose a temporary suspension of this point until the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture are present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-003-216.u3	Yes, thank you, Mr President, I have noted your procedural proposal to interrupt until the Prime Minister is present here in the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this point. It is a proposal that I will put to the vote. I called in Members and Members who were not in the hall. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 145, 158 Members registered, for 117, against 3. We have interrupted the discussion of this point into the presence of the Prime Minister. So I'm going to end this point right now. We are returning, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, to the adjourned discussion of item 180. It's about
