ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u1	317. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I note that on the agenda of the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies a total of 17 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with, and for this reason they asked to be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 12 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. So many rules of procedure. And now we can proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's intervention on the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 482. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Andrej Babiš isn't here, so we'll continue to interrupt this interpellation. Furthermore, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpellation with regard to the construction of a unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the state of gradual replacement of the OKsystem system. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 571. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Madam Secretary is present, so we can proceed. I'm opening the debate. First in the debate, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u2	Thank you. Mr President, members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, thank you for allowing us to discuss this written interpelation of mine. At the previous meeting, I read additional questions which led me to disagree with the answer of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. And I believe that the Minister will be able to answer those questions, with the aim that we should somehow get the timetable that is in the economic system of the Labour Office to be actually launched to 1. 1. 2020. That's the whole point. I know it's not entirely in the hands of the Secretary. I understand her difficult position in those business relationships that she didn't even close, but she inherited, and so we all need to be informed, because, of course, the system involves a large number of citizens of the Czech Republic. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u3	Thank you. Madam Secretary is ready to answer. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u4	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Member, honourable Members. First of all, let me assure you, Mr Vice-President, that I consider the completion of the transition to the new agenda systems a priority task whose gradual implementation is regularly controlled within the framework of the myself-established supervisory working group composed of the highest management of the Ministry of the MPSV. Within this control group, there is, inter alia, a check of the milestones set within the integration timetable. Basically, if there's any deviation, whether in the order of two weeks or in the amount of two million crowns, it's immediately because of these... [[A silence to settle the peace near the riverbed.]] Thank you. We're deviating. [[9.10 hours]] To your question about defining the scope of the system and its functions, I can say that the exact description of the delivery range of each system is given in the target design of the solution, the so-called solution design document, including analytical and architectural models. At least five months before putting the system into production, there is a complete transition plan, the so-called cut over document, where the information is needed to bring the output of the project into production state. The readyness of each functional unit is verified within standard testing phases. The current main risks include, in particular, the complexity of solutions and the number of dependency between systems; capacity options by factual guarantors testing newly deployed systems report errors and subsequently have to retest repairs, while ensuring the current agenda; Furthermore, the complexity of contractual relations - you mentioned this - and the preparation of follow-up public contracts, whose processing places high requirements on personnel capacities of factual and technical guarantors and IT architects. The risk analysis, including their mitigation, is carried out within the project management at the level of each project under the programme management at ISPV level or at the level of the highest management within the already mentioned review working group for IT and, where appropriate, at the level of management advice. It's about twice a month when we discuss this very closely at the board of directors of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Dependences between individual projects are recorded in IT roadmap and integration timetable with integration and milestones. Detailed analysis of the impact of possible non-application of the SE project to the Labour Office on 1. 1. 2020 does not exist, as all surrounding systems are prepared for the launch of the SE Labour Office project in the long term. If it is not deployed, there would be a delay in deployment into the production of other key projects. To your supplementary questions about non-consistency, I would first like to add information about the further procedure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As I have already stated in my reply to the original interpelation, the analysis of the data carried out by the Labour Office staff after notification of the findings of data non-consistence has revealed that the sample tested by them is a false positive finding where the error is not in the data examined but in their interpretation within the migration algorithms used by the supplier of migration services from 2017 and 2018. In response to this information, the Ministry of Labour of the Czech Republic again approached the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic with a request for additional information in order to obtain greater certainty about the accuracy of the conclusion of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. Based on the additional information provided by the MPSV, it was concluded that most non-consistence does not mean an error in the calculation of the amount of the payment but arose from a discrepancy between the agenda and the economic system, which is due to the uncertainty of automatic data transmissions between the economic system and the agenda system. These are, for example, manual interest payments for some agendas, or such irregularities come from the period of migration from Fujitsu to OK applications at the turn of 2013 and 2014. To your additional question, how does the existence of inconsistentness affect the possibility of proper and timely data migration for IS Employment needs, I say that for most areas in IS Employment data will be migrated no longer than from 2015. In case of detection of non-consistence during migration from OK applications to the new IS ZAM, data will be cleaned individually, for example with a distinction as to whether it is payment or only registration data. As I mentioned in my initial reply, the non-compliances from 2011 to 2014 were mainly due to migration from the system provided by Fujitsu back to OK applications. It is therefore not an error of OKsystem, which only took over the migration data from the system supplied by Fujitsu. As far as your question is concerned, whether OKsystem had doubts in the implementation of the project verification of data consistency in 2014, I would like to state that it was probably a data verification project and data preparation for further use, when the outputs of this project were according to the transfer protocol signed on 18. 2. 2013 passed on five data media to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for further use. Therefore, it cannot be concluded that OKsystem was in error. If it is found that non-compliance has arisen as a result of a breach of the supplier's contractual obligations and as a result of this, the MPSV will require the supplier to pay for such damage. At this point, however, the Ministry is examining the relevant legal and factual aspects. In your last supplementary question regarding the solution to the agenda system for the payment of non-insurable benefits, I can assure you that we are analysing all possibilities of ensuring the payment of benefits after 2020, even if the selection of the supplier of the IT competition for the payment of benefits is delayed again by the proposal to initiate proceedings at the UOHS. In such a case, we are re-checking the conditions under which transparent open procurement procedures for the development and operation of the existing system would be feasible for an essential period of time. There is also a possibility of a settlement in the court proceedings on the validity of the withdrawal from the contract with OKsystem, which was concluded by the MPSV on the basis of an open procurement procedure in 2016 and subsequently withdrawn from it in 2017 due to the lack of cooperation of the supplier. More detailed information on the IS DAV solution as well as the status of other projects is provided in the documentation prepared for the 36th meeting of the Social Policy Committee on 19 September 2019. In general, apart from IS DAV, all key JISPSV projects are in the state of final testing including the so-called end-to-end test. The results of MPSV testing take into account in the modification of future resort architecture as well as in the preparation of new public contracts for the operation and development of the system integrated operational and support data and economic system of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and MPSV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u5	Thank you, Minister. Vice-President Filip will respond. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers to the questions, but I would still have two questions about this. You said those systems were to be tested five months before they started. That means, I'd like to know how the test went since it's October and it's due to run on January 1, 2020. What happened to the last test of the system that was carried out? And if it ensures both the system itself and its security, that means that the data can't be broken. And on that third supplementary question, you said, did you analyse the security of supply of the new system? My point is, I asked if the delivery of the new system with the guarantee of delivery 1 is secured. 1. 2021. I don't think that analysis is enough for me. Because what's the result of the analysis? Or if the result of the analysis is communicated. And now I'm satisfied with what you said, at least supplementing the Social Policy Committee. Because if it's gonna work, in my opinion, it's not gonna be enough to carry out the analysis. Those are two additional questions I have on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u7	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u8	Thank you. I think we're missing each other in the data. IS DAV should be deployed to 1. 1. 2021. And if we're gonna have five months prior to testing the deployment of the system, we still have nine months of time now, if I count correctly. And 1. 1. We start with the Office of Labour. This means that there will be no confusion between these two systems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u9	Vojtěch Filip, yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u10	That's what we're missing, non-communicative communication, Madam Secretary. You said the system was being tested, basically, five months before it was started, it was being tested. And we've got three months until we start the first system. And on top of that, you told IS DAV that you were conducting an analysis. But in my opinion, there's a need to know if the delivery of the new system will be secured in 2021. That means analysis of the system, it should have been carried out and it should have been in the tender. You yourself said it wasn't easy. Of course, there are those disputes that are going through the UOHS, I can imagine. So my point is whether the launch of the new system, that is, five months ago, that is, in the eighth month of this year, the test was done to see if it was successful. That's the first question. And the second question is what's the result of the IS DAV analysis, or if it's not finished yet. This means whether or not the selection procedure is secured, the guarantee of delivery of the IS DAV to 1. 1. 2021. That's what I asked. The first one, you're supposed to have a mid-August rehearsal. And the other one isn't enough for me to analyze. My point is whether the result of the analysis, for example, is to clarify the selection procedure and ensure it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u11	Thank you. Madam Secretary Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u12	Two things. Administrative economy of the Labour Office to run from 1. 1. 2020 - there is testing running since June this year and everything is running as it should. Everything's running. As for IS DAV, where are all the problems I described with the UOHS, so I'm telling you that at this point, we're analyzing all the possibilities of getting benefits even after 1. 1. even after 2020, i.e. from 1. 1. 2021. It is a critical infrastructure of the state, even in case, - I can read it once again - that the selection of the supplier in the IT system for the payment of benefits will be delayed again by the proposal to initiate proceedings at the UOHS. In such a case, we are re-checking the conditions under which transparent open procurement procedures for the development and operation of the existing system would be feasible for an essential period of time. Two. The possibility of a settlement in the court proceedings on the validity of the withdrawal from the contract in OKsystem, which was concluded by the MPSV on the basis of an open procurement procedure in 2016 and subsequently withdrawn from it in 2017 for lack of cooperation between the supplier. This means the administrative economy - all running, deployment from 1. 1. IS DAV - at this point we're dealing with two options because they're there, let's say... It's being handled through the UOHS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u13	Thank you. Vice-President of the House. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u14	Thank you. Now we understand each other, Madam Secretary. If the test went well and you guarantee that 1. 1. 2020's gonna work, the labor authorities, I'm happy. The second thing is, if you promise me here, Madam Secretary, that at least the result of the negotiations you're offering here, you'll at least tell the committee in some real time, I won't demand the rejection of the additional answer, because... I understand you very well. You have a situation where you have two options. Either make the peace or say it's invalid, the matter, the way the testimony was, it turned out here. But that doesn't, in my opinion, provide an agenda for a system of non-insurable benefits to 1. 1. 2021. But if you have a meeting in front of you and say, let's say that in November you will give some result to the Committee on Social Policy, I will settle for it, or I will interpel you later if the peace doesn't come to an end. But I'd like to know what date you're assuming that you can guarantee that we're securing that date or that date, because I understand that it's in the negotiations. I understand that it's in the negotiations right now. But no deadline for us to know how the negotiations are gonna go and whether we're gonna get the insurance benefits 2021 or up to 2022? Because in your performance, it was clear that there was a delay. So I'd like to know when you can move on. And now I don't want to bother you that we're going to reject your answer because I know it's been handled very honestly. But these questions are logical from your answer. I don't think I'm the only one who wants to know, because it's a matter that has its conventions. Among other things, the ministry you manage is worth a lot of money that could be spent by the Ministry for the benefit of socially needed, not for the payment of software companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u15	Thank you. Madam Secretary will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u16	Mr Vice-President, believe that the Social Policy Committee is being informed on a monthly basis, even more often by the relevant subcommittee, so I think that there is sufficient information. I also indicated the solutions that we have in view. The UOHS has to decide by 4 December, this means that the solution will probably be known within a few weeks. We are as transparent as possible on the Social Policy Committee, we have indeed opened all the cards. And as for your request that I promise that these systems will work in 2020, I will tell you that I have an obligation as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to ensure the operation of the state's critical infrastructure. We haven't gotten since 1. 1. 2021 at this time, the operation is secure. We are working very hard on it, I say, by 4 December 2019 the UOHS is to decide, and I cannot imagine that the critical infrastructure of the state would not be secured. It's a system that flows over 80 billion a year. CZK in doses. And believe me, and I've already told you that there is no matter that would keep me more occupied than this one at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u17	Chairman Stanjura volunteered for me. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u18	Good morning. So that it is not just the dialogue between the Vice-President and the Minister and the rest of us are not just spectators, I think the problem is wider and is called in the concept that the Social Democrats once introduced into Czech legislation, that is the unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And when they pushed for it, they certainly meant the system that concerns the payment of pensions. And there's a lot more money flowing there than the 80 billion mentioned. If I translate what the Secretary of State said, let's put it quite simply: We don't know if we're gonna make it after six years of moving the system. I heard similar words here in 2015, 2016, 2017 that we are coming, in the competition that it will be, then read the SAO report, how it turned out, how much money was spent. De facto two systems simultaneously, result zero. Then when we propose some adjustment to the pension system, we find that the social administration is unable to figure out when a person receives a pension. That's a year-old debate between me and the secretary. And the secretary said, first of all, I don't know if we're gonna make it. And two, if we don't make it, we're gonna make it to the existing supplier. When you translate words that sound so nice: Open transparent tender for the operation of the existing system. Well, who can win it? And it doesn't matter who the supplier is. If I put in an open tender for the operation of the existing system, the existing operator will win it. Quite logical. So that's the way the secretary talks about it so nicely, that he'll ensure the critical infrastructure of the state, that he'll get it out of hand again, and that he'll extend it again. But I'm missing something else here. A thorough analysis of the systems that the databases are supposed to contain. [[9.30 hours]] The state wants us all the time, all the time, some data, and then it's able to say that their system can't do it because it doesn't know and wants something else. And it's not just in the MPSV area. If you want to find out what population you have in your city, you have two sources that differ - the Czech Statistical Office and the Ministry of the Interior. And you don't really know which one's paying. When we talk about the interpelation I put on the Minister of Industry in a few moments about the number of tradesmen, you'll find that there are several databases and the numbers are different. So the key problem of paying benefits, but also pensions, is a quality analysis not only of the current system. Madam Secretary has been talking for months, maybe several years about checking out the welfare system, making it more efficient and so on. He's got our support in that. But do we have an analysis to do it? Are you sure? Haven't we forgotten anything? No date? Everything in there? Are we ready to respond? And it's not like we're gonna adopt a law here or a proposal - it's not our fault it's not in the database. It's a key moment. The fact that these competitions are complicated and that they extend to the competition authority is because the office is simply not working well. [[time limits]] We've been saying this for years. I don't criticize how he decides, that's another thing. I'm criticizing how long it takes to decide. And these are incredible deadlines. And any mayor who's unlucky enough to get his contract into the UOHS will tell you. We were talking about a myth here last night. Again, I do not want to say how to criticize and argue how it decides, but how long it all goes on. Then you can't really plan and say any data. So I'm not satisfied with the answer because it's too general, it's all promises. If I hadn't heard it for six years, I would have believed it. Remember those of you who sat here during the last parliamentary term, how many times we heard from another minister, but for the same political party that new, modern, great information systems will already be competing. Let's see what happened three or four years later. We have no reason to believe that this time, this year, things will turn out differently. I would really like to know what Vice-President Filip said, if part of the system is to be deployed on 1 January 2020, then the test operation must be underway. It's not just a test. How long has the test run been going on, what are the conclusions? Do we know the system's okay yet? Those are the key questions. 'Cause putting on something... And then, when it comes to data migration and it migrates from one information system to another and something goes wrong, there's never a mistake on one side. As a former programmer, I can tell you that with a calm conscience. There's never a mistake on one side. We're not here to judge who made the mistake. The first error is on the contracting authority's - contracting authority's side, because it is intended to monitor what the database contains, whether in the old system or in the new system. And if the contracting authority did it right and we come out of this theory that the contracting authority took good care of it, that means the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, then someone must have made a mistake. But normally the transfer from one system to another - both of those companies are responsible for that. So we can't settle for the fact that we're off the hook, and the others, the bad guys, did it wrong. [[unintelligible]] Someone has failed, at least in control, at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and then the systems are not functional, they are not modern, and they are not functioning as they might. This is exactly a demonstration of the wrong way of digitizing and electronizing the public administration, instead of simplifying it, so I'm worried about how many times we've discussed it here. I believe that the members of the Social Committee are informed, so I would ask the new Chair of the Social Committee to ask the secretariat of their committee to pull out all the promises and all the deadlines that have been made in the last six years - "open, transparent" and I do not know how, at the meeting of the Social Committee from the mouth of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to compare the reality at the end of October 2019. And then we'll see how credible it is or not. I'm not saying it's an easy thing to do, but dealing with it for six years... If Secretary Marksová had competed and wanted it, the system is becoming morally outdated today, and we don't have the new one anymore. So how can the morally technical system that's being run today look like? But there is a more general question to which legislators across the political spectrum had a question, and that is actually a selection of procurement of large-scale information systems, and what about them when one day the state decides for some information system. It's illusionary to say I'm gonna outrun him in four years. It's just not effective. Not only do data migration problems arise, but input costs are repeated. On the other hand, if someone competes, they can't have it forever and ever. But I think there should be some professional debate, and then it needs to be anchored in the law and have special rules for these information systems, in terms of how long the system's life is and for how long it should be competitive. And what about when the lifespan comes to an end? This really is not a trivial thing, such a recompetitive large information system, from a small company to a large one, to exchange an economic system is not an easy thing at all in any company, and so the extensive information systems used by the state is much more complicated than to replace basically simple - but I say in quotation marks basically simple - the system, for example. accounting or management of some activities in the company. So this is a general problem that is connected with the procurement and operation of information systems throughout the public administration. It is the same for the regions and cities. Maybe it's not that obvious. And that's what we should be dealing with. This is certainly not a question of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or one of the ministries. This is a cross-cutting question for all ministries and for all public authorities. And for us, we would welcome such a debate, we are ready to participate constructively. Because the time you compete for and how to possibly make a new competition are key questions and are not simple answers. And the idea that every three or four years I've been changing an extensive information system and competing again, with all the complications with competition law, is simply inefficient. And it's gonna cost more in the end. But at the same time, public administration cannot become a hostage supplier. Sometimes I hear from some ministers that we will buy the source texts of the program. That's not the answer. Then we go back to having state programmers. It's just not possible. There's nothing more valuable to a software company than source texts. I can't do that! And if we want to buy them, we're gonna pay for the monstrous money. Because if any software company already agreed to sell it, the amount would be huge. Because speaking of science, research, innovation, from a broader perspective, every new software product falls into this category. You never know how they're gonna get caught. In doing so, you know that programmers are a very well-paid profession, so the cost of creating a software product is considerable. Success is not guaranteed. These are more general questions concerning not only the problem, but I wanted to mention them here, so that we do not narrow it down to just one information system or part of one information system, because the question is generally valid. I've got the Secretary of Finance behind me. And their information system - I wouldn't like to talk about that. But the problem is actually the same - model. Old information system, how to compete it, parameters new, what the life of the new information system is supposed to be. Do not take this as a criticism, but rather as a description of a problem that exists really and does not have a simple solution and is more of a technical-organization-manager than a political clash of government and opposition. I'm sure we don't get it that way. But if we only deal with the individualities and deal with specific information systems in the House, we're not really going to change anything. Here by chance - I don't mean by chance, but today we're dealing with an information system, we're going to talk about the number of businessmen, we could talk about the population, so I could do it again. The state knows everything, it has all the data, and it can't work with them. This is the basic problem of digitalization and electronization. I know it's a nice password, we all agree on it, the digi constitution, the right to digital services, I agree with it all, but sometimes I think we're going too fast. Instead of trying to do a good analysis at the beginning, at the entrance, we're going to do something, and then we're going to find out in traffic that we've forgotten something. Each programmer will tell you that it is not crucial, or that it is not the most important how you write the program, but how good your input analysis is, how well you invented the database and how you work with the information. Then it's just like another language that somehow fills the assignment. [[9.40 hours]] And in that public administration for a long time - and I don't want to refer only to this government or to the past government, I say long-term - is failing. Because under the pressure of day-to-day decision-making, the daily problem - I have to have a new system in a month, Members have changed something, I have to have a new system in a year - we don't have time to do a good input analysis, and then the results are worse than they could be. Because either the information systems will serve us, which is fine, and we'll save ourselves the work, the time, the papers, the forms, or we'll serve them. And because sometimes I also have to communicate with the public administration, I'm saying a little parody that we have an electronization like Austria-Hungary. I need the paper, I have to fill it out, and the electronization means I'm going to print it out, which I would normally do, instead of putting it in an envelope and sending it, so I'm going to sign it, scan it back into the computer and send it somewhere. So scanned paper and scanned form is no electronization. That's just harassment. And this, unfortunately, is how the Czech public administration goes very often and calls it electronization and services to citizens. And it really isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u19	Thank you. De facto remarks will follow - first Mr Rais, then Mr Mr Černohorský and Minister Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u20	Thank you. I would like to add to Mr Stanjura's opinion regarding the absence of the instrument, which would basically say that the large programming system is already obsolete. I can say specific cases here. If the forensic expert says it towards the big information system, then, just to be safe, he's being chased by the courts and it takes five or seven years for him to be cleansed. And of course, he'll be very careful that the individual here attacks an information system that basically the professional public thinks is just a non-functional matter. There is also, of course, a question of financial costs in this context. If I were to speak specifically, we all bear in mind the situation that was around the information system, which Mr Stanjura also spoke of, and this is an information system for evaluating the results of science and research from the past period, where we have intersected this place several times as a completely inadequate and unprepared matter. So clearly some kind of conclusion - I just strongly support the view that there should be an authority here that decides that this programming system is old and that it needs to be replaced. This isn't going to be done by a forensic expert. A specific example? They're gonna lock him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u21	Thank you. Mr Cernohorsky, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u22	Thank you for the floor. We've already crossed paths with Mr. Chairman Stanjura. The point is, if you have the source codes, you don't have to write it all down with that information system by some particular company. You can even use, through Mr President, when I address you indirectly here, use the database, it may not be Oracle, because buying Oracle would ruin the state budget, but you can use PostgreSQL for example, and the individual components are made up of open-source software. At that point, you can also change suppliers. Of course, it will be more complicated for some if they don't know the software product directly, but you have a much greater chance of managing it. But I agree with you that then it is necessary to have a perfectly prepared analysis and divided into individual components. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u23	Thank you. Minister Schillerová, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I'm not gonna get in the middle of the MPSV issue here, it's not my place or my place. But I was approached by President Stanjura, mentioned by the Ministry of Finance. I will talk very briefly about the ADIS system that the Financial Administration has. I would like to say that despite everything that has been said here, and I am not saying that it has no relevance, so it is necessary to go back to the same beginning, to those contracts from 1991, 1992 which the ministers of the time, I don't even know, I have it pulled out somewhere that signed it, got us into such an unsolvable vendor lock, specifically if I talk about ADIS at the Financial Administration, where it just took 30 years, and we are really in a situation today when we see the light at the end of the tunnel, when Mrs. CEO Richterová has finally signed the IBM contract and published everything, we have put everything out transparently, on the basis of which the company will simply supply for four years, but then she will give up - I will say it to the public, so don't be angry with IT experts - giving up on those source keys without which you will not compete. There couldn't have been a public contract, unless there was a guarantee that someone would just give the keys, put them out of their hands. And that follows from this treaty. That's why there's a new system competing today. And we're going to compete in a different way - modular - that means I don't have the details here, because I didn't expect to lead this debate, but it's going to compete in a way that never happens again, that there's going to be an addiction to one so that it's just representativeness, that it's going to be about different taxes. So the problem arose somewhere, I don't know how it is on the MPSV, I really don't know, but if I talk, and I've been approached, it was 30 years ago. And, unfortunately, it took 30 years for us to get out of that vendor lock. So we thank those who signed those contracts back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u25	Sorry, time. Thank you. Mr Válek's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u26	Thank you. Since we've come this far, the problem is, of course, as my previous speakers have outlined here, very complex. It is a huge incompatibleness of individual information systems. When I look only at a very narrow area of health care, which is related to the issue of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the transition zone, it is basically impossible to send information electronically from one device to another. And if there is no central tender for a single information system, no unifying platforms that would transfer the data have been able to apply yet. And the second point of view, and it's related to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is that when it goes from paper to electronic form, if the user doesn't know very well enough that the transition will occur 100% in advance, he's exposed to a situation like today with an electronic disability that hospitals don't know if they're supposed to fake the forms, and there's something similar to the eRecipe, everything's going to be delayed about half a year, or they're not supposed to fake them and risk not having a way to expose their incompetents from 1. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u27	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Vice-President Filip is now in the debate and then President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u28	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, given where this debate has moved, I will not propose to the Chamber of Deputies to reject the reply of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because after 4 December, as the Minister has said here, I will either agree with her that we will receive new information on uninsurable benefits, or I will write a new interview to get it to the Chamber of Deputies meeting. As far as I understand correctly, the exam took place five months in advance from June to August. The test ensures that 1. 1. 2020 will work one system. Another system is at risk, and I'll talk about it later on on another platform. Therefore, I am not proposing any resolution on this interpellation. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Thank you to all the others who have discussed, but the discussion has gone somewhere else than I expected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u29	Thank you. And now, President Stanjura, still in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u30	The secretary of finance moved it somewhere I didn't want to go. I didn't challenge her, I didn't address her, I didn't criticize anyone. I had a general remark. But if we start every debate about who signed what in 1991, we're really not getting anywhere. I also said in my statement, if you have noticed, Minister of Finance, that this is a long-term problem, not just the last two governments or the last two parliamentary periods. So it's not a back-to-back-government dispute at all. But if I take your word for it, and if you have the 1991 software, I've been thinking about what kind of computer I had that year. I don't know exactly. Maybe it was an XT and maybe it was a five-inch floppy disk. I don't remember exactly what I programmed in 1991. So answer your own questions, Madam Secretary, how many times have you switched hardware since you had cars at the Ministry of Finance in 1991? And I just refuse, and I have some experience of being cornered by a contractor as a public administration, and I refuse to say that nothing has changed since 1991. And now we've solved it so that nothing can be changed for four years or three more. That's just not true. And don't think of it as criticism. Just like the state must be strong in this. [[9.50 hours]] I had a general remark on whether we should do it right, let it serve citizens, entrepreneurs and all those who are constantly sending the data to the government, and the answer is - I don't know who signed it in 1991. I don't know who signed it either in 1991. And I don't really care. I don't think XT's working anymore, maybe we could find it working somewhere, maybe it was AT, I don't know, I really don't remember it anymore, but it's been almost 30 years. And saying I'm on 30-year-old software, it just can't be true either. All that's left is the supplier and the name. It just can't work. The 1991 software cannot work in 2019. Definitely not this one. That means, that's the road that leads nowhere, doesn't lead to any improvement if we say who signed something in 1991, 1996, 2016, 2018. Rather, let's do a good analysis, but not at the level of one ministry, but at the level of the central public administration as a whole. It's the only thing that makes sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u31	Thank you. Mr Profant is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u32	I agree more or less with my previous speakers, but I just wanted to supplement my colleague Černohorský and get back to the debate on the important know-how of source codes. It's not like it's all the software company has. It's more important today that he has those seniors. Because somehow the source code isn't that complicated, but having a quality team that keeps a quality product at a given level of quality, it's really complicated. And I think it proves the market. When IBM bought Red Hat for $34 billion this year, one of the biggest stores in IT history, and Red Hat writes software with an open source code, so it doesn't really have any closed source codes and its value exceeds $34 billion... Well, that's just for information. And to the secretary. I wanted to say or stress - it has already been said here, but I don't think it has resonated enough: it is important not only to have the system, not only to have it properly competed, but to be able to use the data. That's what I think is a real problem. And it doesn't push us any further, because we're still at the old de facto Austro-Hungarian formulas, which are based on the fact that a rank clerk must be able to calculate everything, etc. And here, in my opinion, the Minister's undignified behaviour was needed when she responded to my colleague Olga Richterová when she proposed a formula for valorizing the parent and the secretary laughed that it was complicated. Yes, the patterns can be complicated, because the problem is complicated. So who is concerned with economics knows that some of the formulas are simply complicated because there are a lot of variables. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u33	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No, I'm done with the debate. I note that Mr Vojtěch Filip did not propose any resolution to the Chamber of Deputies for this reply, so I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. In the meantime, there have been other apologies, some even twice, so I'll try to introduce you to them. Minister of Transport Kremlík apologizes from 17.55 until the end of the day for reasons of work, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček today from 9 a.m. to 17.15 for reasons of work, I will not read it again, Mr Roman Onderka apologizes from 10 a.m. to 17 a.m. for reasons of work, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík from 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. for personal reasons, Minister Kremlík again, but this apology is already loaded, Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from 11 a.m. to 17 a.m. for reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Holík from 12 a.m.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to the end of the meeting for reasons of work, Mr Jan Řehounek from today's meeting from 14.30 to 19 p.m.m.m.m. for working Balaštíková and Mrs Margita Balaš.m.m.m.m. Another interpellation. Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec responded to Mr Radek Holomčík's interpelation on the procedure of the Ministry of Environment in the case of gravel mining near the municipality of Moravský Písek, it is the House's press 587. However, the discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. The Minister is excused, so we will not deal with this written interview today. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's interpelation on the systematicisation of staff posts in the field of medical assessment services and its reform, on information systems and support for medical assessment services processes and on health assessment and labour capacity pursuant to Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security. Interpelation along with response is presented as House press 588. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. The Minister is present, we can address this response to the written interpelation. And I'm opening the debate. Mrs Richterová is reporting for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u34	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm touching some very specific things in this interpellation. But in order to understand the broader context, I would like to say very briefly that the medical assessment service is something that each of us may need. In short, approximately 400 to 430,000 applications per year are assessed by this system and simply. These are situations of accident, disease, permanent disability, permanent disability. It is a basic system based on the support of all those who are long-term ill or living with disabilities. In addition to the great internal debt from the past, when new doctors have not been collecting for a long time, unfortunately, there are enormous difficulties in the medical assessment service as well as because the functioning between the Ministry of Labour and the Czech Social Security Administration is divided. We have also dealt with this many times in the Committee on Social Policy, and a number of colleagues have done so. However, in July there was a re-change, the re-removal of doctors of the social security body from the state service. The reason was so that doctors in the civil service could continue to work at the age of 70. I think that's a good thing to see the crisis, that in the medical opinion service, it's like doctors over the age of 70 are necessarily needed to make it work at all. I was trying to figure out what the real steps of the Department of Labour were to stabilise this important organisation, this important agenda. And I was interested in specific matters relating to interference, perhaps just some of those places, their removal from the state service. Maybe I was wondering why 55 seats were not abolished and transferred to the labour code, but only 50 to learn how thoughtful the reform was. I was also wondering who would be dealing with the methodology of medical assessment services or complaints of clients in the future when the department merged. Moreover, when a change in systemization takes place over the course of the year - and that is the case - there must be a very substantial change in some conditions, such as the emergence of new legislation. So I was wondering why the D.O.D. did the systemization, how well it was justified. Again it was one of the reasons for disagreeing with the answer, the answer was not in this particular one. It is simply a matter concerning thousands of people who file appeals, and those appeals are not answered in time, they will not be able to deal with their case within a legal period. [[10.00 hours]] I'll tell you the numbers from the answer, but in fact, the main question for the secretary is whether it is ensured that new medical examiners can be accredited. To get an answer to when the accreditation of the new programme took place and to what purpose we are heading. So what's the view of solving this important area? The ease of work should then be a supportive information system for the needs of medical assessment services and there again will follow up on what was discussed here a while ago. The creation of an information system complete for the entire assessment service in the Czech Republic has been canceled and it seems that it will again just be the Czech Administration doing its own information system. Even if part of the agenda is under MPSV. So that's what I'm asking. And finally, I'm going to poke some numbers out of the answer and what I'm asking. In fact, the point is that it was planned that we would need 351 service medical positions as a Republic, but 287 doctors went into the employment relationship that I was talking about. So we're just missing over 60 doctors numerically. As far as appeals are concerned, they're thousands a year. In February to December 2018, I was told that there were 17,000 appeals. And now - and that's important again - when people appeal, in a quarter to half of the cases, the appeal is granted to clients. I mean, that's an indication that points to the quality of the original work and the length of the proceedings. Because it takes so long, sometimes the situation gets worse, and people are given what they're referring to. Again, that is why I ask the Minister how to deal with this enormous change rate, by appealing to the people rightfully, and therefore that the primary decisions are not okay, how to deal with it. There's also a very important number: 1. 7 784 outstanding cases were recorded by the MPSV review committee this year, of which 4 136. Again, there aren't 17 seats on the MPSV, which, according to the answer, represents a monthly capacity of 800 opinions. But those people don't care. These people want to know how it's gonna be solved. Thousands of reviews after the deadline. I asked there very specifically, after what period. There are two kinds, because I'd like to see it answered more precisely how long these people have been waiting. The recruitment campaign for new doctors was launched on 1 June. But how can a recruitment campaign take place if there is no accreditation for the education of new assessors? So that is what I am asking, because the answer is that the accreditation of the workplaces is ready and the accreditation of the educational programme will be initiated at the time of approval of the educational programme. In other words, Madam Secretary, is my deduction correct that there has been no accreditation for years? So it hasn't been possible for years to actually prepare new assessors? [[First of all, in the left side of the hall, the Members are having a very loud conversation with each other.]] And one more important thing. That you want to leave the solution of the situation in IT as the Ministry purely separately for the solution of the Czech administration, for a separate project? That would mean that the shared data will not be needed again. [[He's turning to the President.]] I believe that the noise is already - Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u35	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain calm in the Chamber! Discussions that do not concern interpelation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, please, in principle, in the foyer. And whoever wants to discuss this interview will certainly get the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u36	Thank you. Really just the last very important thing that there is no single data repository available today, so it is necessary to rewrite medical reports and findings of specialist doctors into the opinion. This is a specific example of something that has been dragged back to unnecessary lengths, adding work. It could be a lot easier to deal with. And that is why the solution to the IT situation and the medical assessment service is a key issue. I would like to sum up by sending specific questions about the answer to the Ministry, adding it to disagree with the answer, so I believe I will simply get the data I asked about. I'm just wondering what the way forward is, too. It really is an improvement for thousands of people who are waiting for their applications to be processed. And I would point out that I do not consider it appropriate to go the way of any outsourcing of this agenda to a private company, which was mentioned as one possible solution in the old analyses sent from the Ministry, but that I would be interested to know whether the Ministry is considering the path taken by a number of European and other countries, and that is to use some possibility for people to fill out detailed forms themselves, detailed questionnaires, so-called. self-evaluation, and so that much of the work today, filling out various documents by those assessors, could make themselves clients. From a number of countries, it turns out to be extremely effective, and when these questionnaires are well compiled, there's a very low error rate. Thank you in advance for answering my pre-sent questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u37	Thank you for the opening word. Who's applying? Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová in the debate. Before I give my word, I state an apology to the president of PS. From the meeting of today's diaper from 9 to 14 o'clock, Marek Výborný apologies. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u38	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, the medical assessment service and the first stage of the reform of the medical assessment service was the first law that I managed to enforce as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. You approved it in the fall of last year. As a result of this first phase, doctors have been excluded from the Service Act because the average age of the Medical Examiner is close to 70 years and you know that the Service Act limits the age of civil servants to 70 years. If we hadn't taken this step, it would have happened to us that a large number of doctors would have basically been expelled from the service, and the pitiful condition we face in the medical assessment service would have gotten even worse. So much for the first question, why systemization to 1. 7. Because it followed the law that was passed by this House at the end of last year. It was so called. the first stage of the reform of the medical assessment service. Now I'd get to the issue as a matter of fact. In short, I would say that the problem is that we do not have enough doctors in the Czech Republic, and then, of course, this problem is, let's say, drinking into the medical assessment service. I like, very much, Professor Žaloudík's statement, which says that you become a medical examiner after your second heart attack. I think that's exactly the condition that describes the situation. This means that the lack of doctors in general then causes that the service in the LPS is not interested. Last year, our government took a number of measures to improve the bad situation with the number of doctors in the Czech Republic, but you know that it will take about 10 to 12 years before the measures taken by the government will then be felt in reality, in fact, in the field. That means it's a long run. Of course, we will not wait that long for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[10.10 hours]] On March 29th, I published the so-called MPSV at the press conference. the basis for the discussion for the reform of the medical assessment service. We have then presented this material very closely on the Social Committee and there we have described all the problems related to the medical assessment service and all the steps that we will want to take in those future months. As I said, the first step, the quick one, to remove the medical examiners from the service law, was enforced and also to 1. 7th of this year realized. It must be said that there is no way that I, as a Social Democrat, plan to outsourcing doctors into the private sphere. That's unacceptable, and I'm not going that way. If I were to sum up the current state of preparations, the Member knows it, it was one of the first to be consulted. At this point, we are preparing a very extensive reform of the medical assessment service. Personally, I believe that the future of medical assessment services should consist of professional assistants, but we are also analyzing all European countries that are, say, leaders in this area, and testing whether we can take their systems into the Czech environment. That means that's where the road should be. We have partially presented this solution, I believe, on the last committee on social policy, and we have also announced that we will introduce it in the next few weeks. At the moment, as I have already mentioned, consultations are being held not only with the members of the Committee on Social Policy but also with the Health Committee who are interested in this matter. So these are things at this point, I answered all the very technical questions of the Member on 14 pages. We listed all the numbers. I think the answer was exhausting. I consider it important to summarize the philosophy, the problem. The main problem is the lack of doctors. We're trying to figure this out, we're not counting on a long-term solution. We have already actually made a legislative change, then we have made about twenty non-legislative measures, especially on the evaluation committees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and also on the Czech Social Security Administration, and we are preparing the so-called second phase of the reform of the medical assessment service and consulting it with all the actors involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u39	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. We're going to continue the discussion. Mrs. Olga Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u40	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, that answer was a very unpleasant surprise for me, because it's not like I get a 14-page answer to my questions. It's just that the problem is, I have it printed here, it's five pages of text. And I do not understand where the answers are, nor do I understand what the concrete steps are, because that is precisely the role of Parliament's control to ask how the critical crisis situation is addressed. I know that in recent years the Ministry of Labour has joined the European EUMASS project, that there has already been a solution to which European models we could use, and this January a pan-European comparative study has also been published. And the Minister only talks about it in general, we analyze all European countries, but we have the opportunity to join specific piloting. I'm wondering if we're gonna do this, if we're gonna use European money, and we're gonna really test the way of this project, like self-evaluation, we're gonna go through it. That's why today's interpellation is that we don't have time to waste any more time analyzing when they've been done in the past two years. And it's just about whether or not we're gonna start making it happen. Sadly, too, in the answers I received, it was stressed that the roads were indicated by two annexes. And, unfortunately, it was clearly mentioned as the possibility of outsourcing, which is why I asked. It wasn't clear what the goal was, what the real path was to reform the medical assessment service. [[Noise in the hall.]] It was also clear from the numbers that there was a very small number of support professions, those assistants of doctors medical assessment services. That's why I'm asking how you want to attract them, how specifically you're going to do it, so that in this critical situation, we can improve this service for the needy. I'll give you one more particular example that I didn't get an answer for. I asked, for example, how many doctors participated in the evaluation process after the period of the MPSV in 2019, what is the development of the appeals submitted this year, which is already coming to an end. And I know that there is also a crisis regime in the Czech administration in this area. I also wonder whether the Czech Administration and the Ministry of Labour already have accreditation, because I did not want to be rude in the answer and so to make it clear, but there was an impossible thing in the answer, namely that the doctor's preparation is already being passed on. But you can only do the doctor's training at an accredited workplace, so that's why the issue of accreditation is absolutely crucial. I ask again, Madam Secretary, if I get an answer to these things, and if I don't, I fear that the interpellation has simply not been answered at all in order to inform us about this important agenda, which concerns indeed 430 thousand requests per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u41	Thank you, and I'm asking Madam Secretary if he's still interested in speaking. That's right. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u42	Madam, thank you. Accreditation, current accreditation, is valid until 2021. The new accreditation was prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the proposal for a new education programme was prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and awaits approval by the Ministry of Health. We expect this approval at the turn of October and November. That means, please don't say it's not an accreditation program. The current one is valid until 2021 and the new one will be approved in the next few weeks. That's the same question you asked why systemization took place to 1. 7th of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u43	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace. Debates that do not relate to the subject, please in the foyer. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u44	Systemization of the medical assessment service on 1 July of this year took place as I wrote to you because the Chamber of Deputies, among other things, last year the Chamber of Deputies approved the so-called first stage of the reform of the medical assessment service and the systemization took place exactly under this law. That means it's based on two facts that are publicly known, and I answered them for you. And once again, don't tell me we don't have a valid accreditation program. We have it valid until 2021 and the new one will be approved by the Ministry of Health within a few weeks. Systemization took place under the law, which, among other things, helped to approve. So here's to that. As for the general principles in which we would like to go. I said it in the previous post. I believe that the future of medical assessment services will consist of professional assistants. At this point, we are consulting with the members of the Social and Health Committee because we are aware of the seriousness of these decisions. I also believe that the medical assessment service should be completely placed on the Czech Social Security Administration. You know that's what I suggested in that law last year. The relevant paragraph has not been approved, but I think it is a step in the right direction. Then a whole series of the twenty other measures that have already been implemented. I will not describe them in detail here, they are mentioned in this document the basis for the discussion on the reform of the medical assessment service, we discussed them very closely on the social committee. [[10.20 hours]] As far as the recruitment campaign is concerned, we have taken the idea that the medical assessment service could be particularly attractive to young doctors, mothers of young children who are trying to reconcile work and family. We've conducted a recruitment campaign, we've targeted it for example, this is just scrap information, in trams that lead to large hospitals, with the idea that it could be a solution for young doctors, so that they don't lose touch with their profession and help us stabilize the problem with the medical assessment service for several years. I admit the campaign had minimal impact. We have a number of dozens of newly registered candidates for medical evaluation. However, the steps we have taken will follow up. I think it is important that we have refined and re-established all the methodological guidelines both on the assessment committees of the Ministry of Social Security and on the Czech Social Security Administration, that we are trying to establish and align all the standards, that we are monitoring very closely the entire system of deadlines and so on, and the results are already coming. So once again, the accreditation program is valid. Within a few weeks, we will have a newly approved accreditation programme. It's in the MPSV solution, approved by the Ministry of Health and Systematics to 1. 7. took place on the basis of a law approved by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u45	Thank you. My colleague, Válek, reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u46	Thank you very much. I'm a little confused right now. Until now, I thought I understood the accreditation system, and now I'm not quite sure. I really admire the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to move everything forward, even in the light of the fact that I am accustomed to life-long, that the effort is positively evaluated only at primary school at first level and that knowledge and real facts are evaluated at higher levels. However, I am interested in accreditation and I would like to hear the name of one particular accredited workplace, where a doctor can enter without a test so that he may start preparing for the test tomorrow. [[Strongly.]] That means, could you, Madam Secretary, tell me a specific workplace where a doctor could start tomorrow to get ready for the test? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u47	Thank you. Who's next in the debate? Madam Secretary. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u48	It is, Mr. MP, the Institute of Postgraduate Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u49	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, perhaps with a motion for a resolution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u50	I don't want to prolong this debate anymore, but I think it's easy. Please ask my questions next to you. My questions were: Currently, the programme of assessment medicine is one year apart from the previous two years when the programme was accredited. I did not receive an answer to this question other than that the CSSS and MPSV started negotiations to optimize the content and form of the educational programme and is now waiting for approval of the education programme by the Ministry of Health. Then I asked: Are doctors already educated according to this new program? How much? There it was answered that they were being educated under the current education programme. But once again, it's where the accreditation of the workplaces is crucial. And there, when I asked how she was doing, the answer was that the accreditation of the workplaces was ready and that proceedings would be initiated at the time of approval on the accreditation of the workplaces. With regard to the Institute of Postgraduate Education, which the Minister has mentioned now, all I got in reply was that the institution's preparation and composition of the test exam is in the gesture, not that it is already running there. So I'm sorry, but since I didn't get specific answers to simple questions about how many doctors are educated according to the new programme, how accreditation is running, and I really thought my questions were specific, simple and clear, then I have to suggest to the House to disagree with the response to this interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u51	Okay, that's a procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure. Colleague Mašek has a spare card No. 17. I'm gonna sing because I asked the debaters to go to the lobby on a different subject. And as soon as there is enough of us, we will decide on Mrs Richterová's proposal to disagree with the reply to the written question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in voting number fifty-nine. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] The number of entries seems to have stabilized. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I repeat the proposal by Mrs Richterová: 'The Chamber of Deputies pronounces' - Mr Špičák, spare card No. 18 - "Does not agree with the reply of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to Mrs Olga Richterová's written interview." I've started the vote on order number 59 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 59 of 109 present for 46, against 3. The motion was not accepted. That's it. That's it. That's it. Before we engage in another interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, I note that the President of the Chamber of Deputies has received an apology within 12 hours of Mr Dominik Feri. Another interpelation is the interpelation of Mr Vojtěch Pikal on the appeal of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition . Petr Rafaj. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 592. The Prime Minister is duly excused, but Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal claims his word. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u52	Thank you. If I hadn't volunteered, I would have failed the interview, so thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, since the Prime Minister is not present, I will ask for an interruption in the discussion to be held in his presence so that he may respond to it if necessary. And now for the interpelation. Dear absent Prime Minister, in response to my interview of 31. 7. 2019 You said that the Government would not propose the withdrawal of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition on the basis of unconfirmed and speculative information from the media, from which I allegedly drew in my intervention. To begin with, therefore, I would like to point out that my intervention was based on findings published by a broad spectrum of serious media, which included Hospodářské noviny, Práva, CTK, or even the Mladá frontu Today, which is part of your trust fund. Therefore, I do not agree with the way in which my intervention was dealt with, on the ground that the facts concerning the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition . Petr Rafaj is not unconfirmed or speculative. With regard to the first and second points of my initial interpellation concerning the President of the Office's house inspection in the context of an ongoing investigation by law enforcement authorities, I note that this information has just been confirmed, in addition to police sources, at the 21st meeting of the Government Council for the Coordination of Combating Corruption, which you are chairing. This meeting took place on Wednesday, 2 October 2019. According to the government server of the Ministry of Justice Justice Justice.cz is a member of the above mentioned advisory body of the Government as well as the Director of the National Headquarters for the fight with the organized member of Colonel Dr. Jiří Mazánek, where the current situation at the Authority was discussed on the basis of this meeting. In the presence of President Rafaj, Colonel Mazánek was forced to exclude himself from the conflict of interest negotiations on the ground that he is currently investigating President Rafaj in the course of the ongoing criminal proceedings. [[10.30 hours]] All these facts are recorded in the minutes of this Anti-corruption Council of the Government. It is therefore indeed false to claim that the information from point 1 and my original inhalations are unconfirmed or speculative. After that, the Head of the National Centre for the fight against organised crime has also confirmed the ongoing investigation at the meeting of the Government Advisory Body, which you are chairing, and indeed President Rafaj himself confirmed this information in yesterday's press interview. As for point 3, where you said that Ing. Rafaj did not name his daughter, his son-in-law and two loved ones in his political engagement in Frýdek-Místek, which information is confirmed even by the Office itself, which does not question them. The commitment of the aforementioned persons is based on the Office's replies to the request for information under the Free Access to Information Act. According to the above law, a compulsory entity is obliged to publish this information within 15 days on the website, which also happened, so under the heading "on the Office' in the section "answers to questions under Act No. 106/1999 Sb." In this way, everyone can verify the involvement of family members and other close individuals of President Rafaj in the Office's decay committees. Of all the above, I therefore continue to believe that the position of President of . Petr Rafaj is unsustainable, and the charges and ongoing investigations are extremely serious. The Government of the Czech Republic should propose its appeal on the grounds of § 1 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (b) a law on the competence of the Office for the Protection of Competition, i.e. a breach of the independence and impartiality of the Office. Of course, it may be your opinion that these reasons are not sufficient or that my information is not a serious violation of the independence and impartiality of the Office, that you simply do not mind that there is such a nepotistic procedure in the Office or that the investigation of senior civil servants or high-ranking politicians is not a problem, that we will not apply a higher moral principle to high civil servants, unlike ordinary citizens. I see it as a political attitude. But then I ask for this answer and not for the claim that the information is speculative and unfounded. Thank you. And now I beg you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u53	Thank you. So it's a motion to interrupt. Okay. Prior to that, the President of the ODS Club for suspension with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u54	Thank you for the floor. It won't give me a quote from an interview from the chairman of the Antimonopoly Office in the Hospodářské noviny, I think of October 15th, and if I'm wrong, it was this week. Let me quote two questions and two short answers. Question: Mr President, if the police charge you, will you leave? Answer: The Prime Minister is my great example. Additional question: oh, so no. And the answer is no. That's just so we know who is the great example of the president of Mr. Rafaj's anti-monopoly office. And I have a question for both the Vice Prime Ministers. The Prime Minister is not here, he is duly excused, and for understandable reasons. Could either of you please answer the microphone to all members of the Chamber of Deputies, what will happen to a private clerk of the Ministry, perhaps yours, if the police charge him under the Service Act? What happens to such a person? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u55	Of course, they can speak outside the point. I will therefore leave the procedural proposal without debate, I could not give the floor to the President of the parliamentary club. [[vote]] So now we have a vote on the motion to interrupt this point into the presence of the Prime Minister. We're going to decide in the 60 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 60 of 119 present for 58, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u56	I'm just gonna take a quick comment on the vote. So I take it the House doesn't care that there's no answer to her interpellation or that it's false. I'll take that under advisement. What do I have left? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u57	Well. The Rules of Procedure do not allow me to comment without an exchange, so I will just continue to interpel, and this is an interview with the Prime Minister, who was submitted by Mrs Věra Kovářová on an empty chair at the Constitutional Court (the House Press 579). Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the Prime Minister is absent today, I know that he is duly excused, so I suggest that this interpelation be interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u59	Okay, thank you. I will vote on the procedural motion in the vote number 61, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. [[Checkout requirements.]] Excuse me, I declare vote 61 misguided. I'll check you all out. I will ask you for a new registration and we will decide in vote number 62 when the number of Members applied for is settled. Thank you. I've started voting number 62 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 62 of 103 for 63, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will continue to interpelate at the time of the Prime Minister's presence. And now we have an interview with the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová, who was interviewed by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová on the suspicion of tax cuts by Agrofert. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 598. The Member is present, the Vice-President is also present. Please, Madame, you have the floor in an open debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u60	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, in July of this year, I approached you in writing by interviewing you on the suspicion of the crime of tax reduction by Agrofert from the trust fund controlled by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I'll remind you briefly what was going on. In the winter of last year, the police began to examine advertisements awarded by companies from Agrofert Group at the Čapi Nest Farm from 2010 to 2013 and in total it was advertising worth almost CZK 280 million. However, this amount corresponds to about a thousand, or more than a thousand billboards across the country for several years. There was a suspicion that this advertising on the Capi nest was in fact only fictional, it did not really take place, or if, it took place in significantly lower filling. Thanks to advertising costs, companies from Agrofert had to reduce their tax base, respectively. taxes paid to the State. The lost stork's nest, thanks to the transaction, received the funds it needed to repay the $100 million loan. According to the former director of the General Financial Directorate Jiří Žežulka, it has been a tax scheme that companies have been using for about 15 years in this country. This is a very serious tax offence, which is why the Financial Administration is focusing heavily on it. [[10.40 hours]] The principle is absolutely simple. A profit company pays a high price for advertising, which it puts into cost, thus reducing its tax base, so it pays less. The money is sent to a loss-making related company, which, of course, because of its loss, tax, profit, does not apply. A bargain for all parties, up to the state, of course. And this is the case that the companies from Agrofert Group should have been involved. The Ministry of Finance was informed of possible violations of the law and tax evasion in connection with payments for alleged advertising, according to the information available, by the German authorities, as early as 2014, when the current Prime Minister led it, at the same time the controlling person of the trust fund of the company in question, Prime Minister Babiš. The Financial Director of the Financial Administration was Martin Janeček, who was appointed by Andrej Babiš for this post, and at the General Financial Directorate, you personally worked as Director of the Legal and Tax Process Department, Madam Secretary. The report by OLAF, published by the European Anti-Fraud Office in connection with the investigation of subsidies for the Capi Nest farm, later mentioned the suspicions. In the summer, the police assessed the above suspicions as serious. It has therefore initiated criminal proceedings. For this reason, I asked you the following questions in the interview: What concrete steps did the Financial Administration take to investigate the whole event after receiving the initiative in 2014? Have the above-mentioned tax costs been properly investigated and, where appropriate, contradicted? If so, has the tax been measured? If tax costs have not been recognised, what other concrete steps has the Financial Administration taken in this matter? In this matter, did the Financial Administration initiate further actions by the Police of the Czech Republic? If a detailed investigation has not been carried out and the Financial Administration has left the case of the disputed ads to an end, who is responsible for this? What will be your next specific approach towards this person or persons? Those were my questions. However, in the reply sent, you did not reply to any of them on the grounds that, in the light of the tax law, you could not be more specific to the case. In doing so, you referred to the obligation to maintain confidentiality in accordance with § 52 (1) of the EC Treaty. 1 of the tax rules. Since I believe that my questions should and could have been answered without violating the above paragraph, I have asked for your answer to the agenda. In the meantime, new information has come up. The financial administration has officially confirmed that in the present case, it has not transmitted this serious information to the police, despite the fact that it does so normally for much less serious suspicions. In response to a request for information from Senator Tomáš Golán, the Director-General of the General Financial Directorate Tatjana Richterová said so. Thus, the answer to my third question is whether the Financial Administration has initiated further actions by the Police of the Czech Republic. She didn't. Let's review the facts. The Ministry of Finance was informed of possible violations of the law and tax evasion in connection with payments for alleged advertising according to the information available by the German authorities in 2014. You refuse to answer the questions which are specific steps leading to the investigation of the initiative received. [[have been made]] We do not know, therefore, whether the tax costs have been investigated by the Financial Administration or whether the tax has been measured. However, we know that the Financial Administration did not consider all available information and incentives to be so serious as to pass them on to the police for investigation. On the contrary, the police, about eight months after she began to deal with the matter herself, assessed those suspicions as serious and therefore initiated criminal proceedings. Spicy in this situation, this advertising, is when you look at what advertising could or should have been. Whoever ordered it at Capi's nest, at this farm, a recreation facility, ordered it. One of those companies was a chemical chemist, a German chemist SKW Piesteritz, who sells ammonia, urea, nitric acid. These products are sold, so they probably need advertising within the Czech Republic on the farm, even though the main buyers of such commodities as ammonia are mainly farmers, and in the case of this German chemist German farmers. So it's very interesting to look at who really wanted this ad. I guess we can imagine what an advertisement for ammonia and urea on the Cap's nest would look like. Madam Secretary, I would therefore like you to stop hiding behind the paragraphs and really as Secretary of Finance, former Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Finance for Taxation and Customs and former Director of the Department of the Legal and Tax Process, if you agree to the procedure where the Financial Administration will allow such serious suspicions to be kept to rest and the whole matter must be included on its own initiative until the Police of the Czech Republic. I expect to know that you must remain silent. That's why I'm going to ask you again, but otherwise. Let me ask you how, according to your court, hypothetical, let's imagine a hypothetical situation. With his sister company Eva from the same group, Adam will order an advertisement for CZK 100 million. It will then put such a high amount in costs, which will reduce its tax base. Sister company Eva urgently needs this money to keep it from going bankrupt in order to pay the debts and salaries of employees. So he gets $100 million in cash, even though he is aware that he is unable to provide advertising in such a performance, and he is not registered as an advertising agency. As Eva is loss-making, it will also avoid paying taxes. How do you think the state should proceed in this case? Should the Financial Administration focus on such a transaction and investigate it? Should the Financial Administration conclude that this was a fictional advertisement, that the entire transaction was purposeful, and that tax costs would therefore be contradicted by the Financial Administration, should tax be measured? If tax costs are not recognised as fictitious advertising, should the Financial Administration take any further steps on this matter? And in this situation, do you think it should, for example, instigate law enforcement authorities? I would love to know how you, Madam Secretary, personally, would proceed in this hypothetical case of Adam a Eva. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u61	There. That was Mrs Adamová Pekarová. Before I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government for an answer, I note that the President of the House has received an apology from 11.00 to 11.45 for the reasons of work of Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Now you have the floor, Madam Vice-President of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what I wrote to you in writing. I'll speak in my own words. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] I prepared such a simple organigram, if you want to come closer, I didn't want to take it bigger. [[shows]] I've got a bigger one. I can give it to you later. It is basically an organigram from when, according to the media, the initiative came from the German financial administration, in this way the General Financial Directorate was organized. There are, of course, some changes today. And the fact that there will be an initiative from some foreign financial administration, in this case from Germany, has its exact rules. These rules are laid down by the International Cooperation Act in Tax Administration and, moreover, various methodological guidelines are given, which are either negotiated -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u63	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House again for peace! Those who discuss other matters, please in the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Which are essentially negotiated at European level and then, of course, internal. Such an incentive when it comes, in this case, from the German Financial Administration, goes through a special protected system - I say this so that you see the process - it goes through, it is a special IT system that is protected, it goes through, it is assigned to a special department of the department of international cooperation and it distributes it automatically according to local jurisdiction to a specific financial office. In this case, as we read in the media, it was the Financial Office for the Capital City of Prague. [[10.50 hours]] Financial office for the capital city of Prague, and I draw from the media. I don't have - you can sort of keep silent here in any way you can just comment - I don't have access to the file. I don't have a place with him, and I didn't have a position. My position has been here since 1 July 2014. The fact that it was distributed to the Financial Office for the Capital City of Prague has been confirmed by this office itself. This office itself has expressed itself - I draw from media statements - said yes, we have received this initiative and we are saving this initiative. That's what it sounded like in the media. That I don't know anything more than what the General Financial Directorate has prepared for me and what was in the media. Because confidentiality also applies to the Treasury Secretary. The Minister of Finance has no right, neither the Deputy Minister of Finance nor my position since 1 July 2014, when I was director of the tax process, nor in this position have I had access to these incentives. So he distributed this channel to the capital city of Prague and it saves. And now I'm going to ask you another question. How do you know it's been cut off? How do you know the result of the case being investigated or investigated? How do you know what circumstances have led to the police's complaint? Which is a statement from the Director-General, who has also been mediated. Because I personally don't know. And I don't know because I don't know. So neither can you. And the investigations, and that's a good thing, are taking place in a strict... It is good for all tax entities in this country, regardless of which company it is, that they are subject to very strict confidentiality. However, the Ministry of Finance has certain competences. These result from the competence law, and this is the work of the so-called supervisory. This means that the Ministry of Finance can carry out supervision, but it cannot interfere with the file, it cannot essentially manage processes that fall strictly within the competence of the Financial Administration, strictly, but it can see to it that the processes are proceeding in a standard manner and that they have not deviated from the normal procedures that are given either by law or by legal regulations, I now mean by methodological guidelines. For example. For the submission of criminal notification, the Financial Administration issued by the General Financial Directorate has clear instructions, tables are kept, must be recorded in a special table for each check, simply unless a criminal notification is submitted for what reason. It's registered. If you look at the Financial Administration report that the government discusses every year in the annual report, you'll see this list. As far as limitation is concerned, this is the right preclusion, this is not a limitation, so it is enshrined in Section 148 of the Tax Code. It is clearly said which actions interrupt this preclusion. Again, a methodological instruction is given that clearly shows what procedures would be and what would mean if the official caused his inactivity to slip. Basically, it would have a very specific impact on him. So I'm saying that the process just runs by the law, runs by the rules, and the Treasury can conduct surveillance. Which I'm not saying at the moment, not so much, whether it's performing or not. So that I don't disturb the impartial process. But the Treasury took advantage of all its competences. Pretty much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u65	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. And before I give the floor to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, there is a factual remark from Mr Pavel Plzák, because the debate is open. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u66	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'll join the secretary. I would also like to know where the Member got information which is classified to us by normal mortals. I'd like to know. But I was originally pointing my point of fact to something else. I listened carefully to you through the President, and I did not understand. You were talking about the procedure that you've been spreading around here, that it's a tax trick based on an expert. But I didn't understand if you thought the whole procedure was legal or illegal. And if he thinks it's legal, why does it seem illegal to you, only if it concerns Agrofert and Chape's nest? And if you consider him illegal as such, it's been going on here for years, like you said. And it was also for your Minister Kalousek. Then why didn't he deal with this before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give my word to my colleague Pekarová Adamová, come on in. I am merely stating that Mr Ondřej Veselý votes with card number 19. And one more thing, two more apologies. The Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček apologizes today from 10:50 a.m. to 13:00 a.m. and from the afternoon meeting Jan Bartošek apologizes for the whole day. You have the floor now, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u68	Thank you for the floor. I would always thank you for the answer, but in this case, I can't, because I didn't actually get one for the questions I asked. And it was here for a while - we actually exchanged roles, because it seemed for a while that there was an interpellation from the Minister to the MPs, not the other way around. I asked you about the hypothetical situation of hypothetical companies, and how would you maintain yourself from your functions in which you operate or now operate? That means, let's put aside some diagrams or some processes at this point. I am interested in your personal opinion on how to proceed in such a matter if such suspicions that it is a tax fraud and that it was a tax reduction. That is why the damage to the state - to answer the speaker here, then, to the Member through the President - is, of course, an illegal negotiation. And at that point - and there are certainly hundreds and dozens of such cases each year that save the institutions for this. Of course, I was particularly interested in why this did not happen here in this particular case according to all the information available to me from the media, as you have the opportunity to have every single one of you. If that's the kind of information you want to look up, I'm sure you can. We're on such a level here that we're definitely doing it all the time. So in that regard, the question was on Adam a Eva's hypothetical companies, I recall. That was my question, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u69	I would give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government, but with a point of fact - no, he is reporting properly - in fact, in which case I will give the floor to the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u70	That is how we know about the billing from the OLAF report - information for the Member. Let's remember what happened. And it's a favorite tactic of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance under the leadership of the Minister. First, bang, bang, bang, don't give out, rule of omerta. It was on the OLAF report, remember - we can't publish, we can't confirm, we don't have translation, we don't have the same on the audit, we can't, we can't. The MP forgot his minister's movement in that zealous defense: I totally agree with the Minister who can't deal with anything, why didn't Kalousek solve it? That's really a logical outlet. If I agree that the minister can't do anything, then why are you taking other ministers into your mouth and saying, "They should have solved it"? The problem is completely different. Look at the OLAF report, look at the filling, see when the filling ended. And the impulse came from Germany. What did the state administration do to him at the time of the Ministry of Finance's Yes Resort? She swept it under the rug. She swept it under the rug. And if it weren't for OLAF's report, neither does the Police of the Czech Republic. It's that simple. And it's illegal, it's not legal. It's illegal to artificially increase costs. And in addition to the income tax that the company cuts, don't forget the VAT, you big fighters with small businessmen with EET! The stork's nest also collected VAT from these invoices And the state paid them back and gave it back! And that's illegal, too. So if you ask, Mr President, whether it was legal or illegal - it is illegal! And that goes for everyone. Even for the hypothetical company and for the company that we are dealing with in this particular case. And there are specific cases where entrepreneurs for a much smaller amount ended up in prison for many years unconditionally for this crime. Look that up from public sources. That's no information we normal mortals will ever know. Unlike Financial Administration. You guys are always applauding the way these businessmen cheat. How do you know they're cheating entrepreneurs? Where did you get that? Do you have any information other than us who say that's not true? In that zealous defense, let us also sometimes use common sense and arguments and facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u71	I thank my colleague Stanjur for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And I'm not gonna give anybody another word, because under the Rules of Procedure Act at 11 o'clock, we have to end this point. Before I hand over the proceedings of the meeting, I note that a colleague, Mr Plzák, has signed up for a point of fact. Properly registered with priority rights: Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. I will now hand over the proceedings of the meeting... [[A Member of the Plzák off the microphone announces that he cancels the factual remark.]] Yes, my colleague Plzák cancels his point of order. So the first to perform in this interview next Thursday will be Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Then Mrs. Adamová Pekarová is duly logged in. We will discuss the agenda of the meeting and pass on the proceedings of the meeting when a colleague Jaroslav Faltýnek is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u72	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, allow me to propose, on behalf of our club, that item No. 246, it's a government bill amending tax laws, so-called tax package, House press 509, third reading, for tomorrow, Friday 18. 10. 2019, as the first point in the block of third reading before the already fixed item number 210. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u73	Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, President Faltýnek was a little ahead of the programme when he passed the proceedings, but okay. I'm the one who recorded the point. I would just like to introduce all Members of Parliament to the fact that we will now be dealing with points 245, 246, 247, 248, 249 and 250. This is the news of Czech Television. I would also like to inform you, and I would like you to adjust your approved programme in this regard, that the Government, by its resolution No. 746 has withdrawn the Government's proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic shall submit its approval to ratify the amendment to the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank in the part indicating its registered office, agreed in Varader on 4 December 2018. It is the House press 512, first reading. So please cross out paragraph 198 from the approved program. No vote shall be taken on this matter. I would also like to remind you that in the afternoon we will focus on point 318, which is oral questioning, and then we will continue to discuss the Czech Television reports, if necessary. So much information to be heard at the beginning. Now we would have gotten there, or we'd already gotten to the proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. The first proposal was made by President Faltýnek. President Stanjura is now in office. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u74	Thank you. We have reports on the management of Czech television with a large Z. I learned yesterday from the news of Czech Television with a small one that the Social Democrats wanted to discuss the tax package on Friday, 1 November 2019. Sounds like a pretty good idea to me. To make sense of this, I propose that item 206 be removed from the agenda of this meeting if we are to address this on Friday 1 November 2019, as I learned from the Czech Television reports by Roman Onderka and Mrs Valachová from the first Vice-President of the ČSSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u75	Yes. Is there any other proposal to change the agenda? It is not that we will vote on the two proposals that have been made. If there are no objections, then we will proceed in the order in which they were presented. So, first of all, we will deal with the motion by the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club to include item 206 as the first item of the third reading block on Friday. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 63. Registered 144, for 83, versus 49. The motion was accepted. And since we've put this point firmly, there's no voting point... I'm afraid it's not voteable, but please, I will, of course, give the floor to President Stanjur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u76	It may not be normal in time, but we can propose a suspension of a fixed point when the House has already approved it. So I think we're gonna vote, we're gonna vote. I'm okay with the fact that this isn't gonna work, but I think it's voteable. 'Cause maybe if we put it on Tuesday for Friday, I could still suggest it today. So here's a rather unusual timeline for these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-001-317.u77	Yes, you're right. It is, of course, unusual to vote immediately after we have included that point, but it is a safer procedure for the House to decide on your proposal by voting. I accept this proposal and I will therefore put it to the vote to exclude item 206 from the agenda of this meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 64. Registered 146 Members, for 58, versus 84. The motion was not accepted. This has been decided on modifications to the 35th meeting and we will focus on the points that we have firmly included. The first is the point
