ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u1	211. Government draft law on real estate intermediation and amendment of Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Living Act), as amended (Act on Real Estate Mediation) /Household Print 391/ - Third Reading I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, Mr Patrik Nacher, the Minister for Regional DevelopmentKlára and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, who was the Committee on Economic Affairs, should take up the position of the plaintiff. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 391/7, which was delivered on 18 October 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 391/8. I am now asking the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Madam Secretary? Yes, you do, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u2	Madam, honourable Members, and I thank the President for the floor. Let me briefly mention once again the law on real estate intermediation, after its discussion at second reading and after its discussion in the Guarantee Economic Committee and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Both committees recommended the law for approval and discussed some amendments. For those colleagues who are not members of the committees, I will make it clear that the amendments can be divided into roughly four headings. Firstly, these are amendments relating to the issue of depositing funds with a real estate agent. Secondly, amendments relating to compulsory qualifications. Thirdly, amendments concerning the issue of compulsory insurance. Fourthly, amendments concerning the issue of certain provisions relating to the requirements of real estate contracts, the obligations of the real estate agent and its integrity. [[12.10 hours]] The law should, in particular, lead to existing entrepreneurs deciding whether to take this profession seriously and to pursue it with the required erudition, or whether they will have to resign for occasional earnings, to which they have so far been able to reach without proper qualifications. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to thank from this place all those who have individually addressed the law and presented their subjects, regardless of whether they will be adopted. I was convinced that the bill as a whole would receive the support of the House. And of course, our meeting today responds to a breakthrough verdict, which was from yesterday's verdict of the Regional Court in Brno, which actually says in its verdict that real estate brokers are responsible for the accuracy of the information provided about real estates. They cannot only be viewed as database managers, but as professional partners in real estate procurement, and this necessarily involves a higher claim. Of course, the court also dealt with the fact that this professional profession does not yet have a valid law and the court has to decide according to the Consumer Protection Act. I believe that real estate companies themselves are proposing that we adopt this law, that professional companies themselves want them to have their law, that they have rules that they can follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u3	There. I am now opening the debate. Would you like to get out, too? Then the rapporteur will come forward. Please, before the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u4	Thank you for your word. So we're in the third reading of this law. I'm not gonna repeat what the secretary said here. I'm just gonna repeat or remind you that we're talking about things that have been flying around for at least eight years. That there is a consensus that some measure of regulation, not unlike what we have experienced in past years in the area of financial advisors, is needed. And I would also like to divide those amendments, as they were, into three groups, and what they change, and what they define in this law, into four. The most frequent amendments concerned the topic of safekeeping, insurance and education, i.e. qualifications. With regard to what this standard is intended to address, it is not just a solution to the topic of safekeeping, insurance of the business itself and qualifications, that means that the consumer has some assurance that he is talking to someone who understands it a little and who he can trust. But we're also talking about something that consumers most often complained about, and that's the solution to the commission. This is also what this standard is dealing with. This means all the negative experiences that this standard solves in the field of commissions, exclusives, advances and so on. For myself, I think he's cultivating and cultivating the real estate market. And once again, we're talking about defining some rules in quotes here, I don't even want to call it regulation, in areas where consumers approach this trade a few times in their lives. That means there's no way to argue here that he could study it, train it somewhere, and so on, because it's just for the vast majority of the non-repetitive thing. As has already been said, the law has been discussed in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, in the Economic Committee. There was some kind of procedure approved. There's one motion to dismiss. And I announce in advance that we also have three legislative technical proposals here, so then I will ask for the attention and decision of the honourable House whether or not these proposals will be accepted. And then I will also propose a way to deal with this vote, because some of the proposals, as I said, concerning, in particular, the safekeeping, insurance and qualifications, by being duplicated, i.e. triplicitally, are then unvoted if we adopt a position in that first vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u5	Well, thank you. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura has applied. Otherwise, we are already in the debate. Please. Yes, the debate is open, please, you have the floor, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u6	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We have a law on real estate. And it's pretty tiring to keep telling the government that every change that brings bureaucracy and extra cost to the business sector is wrong. Somehow I don't understand why the submitters of the government of the ANO, the CSSD and the KSČM do not understand. Such suggestions, usually made under godly passwords such as fighting alcohol or improving the quality of services, always hide something else behind them. It is usually gaining some advantage, either a benefit to the state budget, that is further taxation of decent and working people, or, in the case of this real estate law, it is about restricting competition in the market by various bureaucratic constraints and spilling some of the money over to another sector. In this case, insurance companies for compulsory insurance of brokers as well as notaries, lawyers and banks who have the exclusive right to deposit under this bill. Everyone has probably read about lawyers or even executors who have embezzled the money. So this government proposal has no logic, because if we were to think this systemically, then according to this government logic, the money entrusted to banks should probably be collected, for example, because some of it went bankrupt, and according to government logic, only the Czech National Bank or the government should have the money directly. I guess everyone's gonna admit it's stupid. Just because some percentage of lawyers fail, steals, cheats, doesn't do their duty, we're not gonna lose everyone. Why is this government scaring off real estate brokers who, by the way, have really fewer scandals and frauds than even lawyers? Why am I talking about this? We in the SPD fight to make people feel better, but the government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM instead of making people's lives cheaper, it makes them expensive and complicated at every step. We at the SPD want people to have affordable housing. So why is the government making housing more expensive every step of the way, from building to construction to final sale? You'll think, higher sales taxes because of the changes in estimates are nothing. A few grand for a deposit in the cadastral won't kill anyone. A few extra grand for safekeeping, and another bureaucracy won't kill anyone either. But the opposite is true. Thousands of such little things are in the sum of the enormous burden that our market, our citizens, and our economy are destroying. In addition, we have one of the highest taxes in Europe. And yet it is obviously not enough because this week the government has pushed through a tax package where it is raising taxes again to decent, regular and working citizens of the Czech Republic. In this context, since we are talking about the law on real estate intermediation, I would like to stress that this week the government has increased the fee for the deposit into the real estate register from CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,000. That's the government's policy. Furthermore, we have record-long building procedures, and I would point out that the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, in the last parliamentary term, is still KDU-ČSL, today with the support of the KSČM, is already six years old and the state is not improving at all, on the contrary, it is getting worse. We also have huge above-average bureaucracy everywhere, and there are absolutely pointless bureaucratic illogical constraints. In this context, I am glad that today, in the House, the law on the digitalisation of the state administration, which the SPD is also a co-president of, has passed, because the modern digitised state is the aim of the SPD movement. Just a little comment on Mrs Válková's amendment to the YES and Mr Feri of the TOP 09 movement, who are proposing to join the notaries and lawyers in the right of safekeeping to take in executives. What can I say? They probably wanted to fill the password where the devil couldn't, planted the executor. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us always consider in context, in context and let us say - will this law help a citizen? We have everyone responsible for the damage, and if the courts and justice work here, citizens have nothing to worry about, and if the individual fails, they have the right to compensation. Another thing is that the enforcement of law and justice does not work with us. And the government is trying to deal with the marginal consequences here instead of the cause. Therefore, the SPD movement cannot be for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u7	Thank you. I have now been given priority rights by Minister Dostálová, then by Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u8	Thank you. We've heard a lot of words here, but they're not entirely about real estate law. So I think we're dealing with the construction process, including digitalisation, and that's a step in the right direction. But let me get back to the bill. I would just like to point out that the law is called upon by the professional public itself. This means that it is not an insolence of anyone, it has actually been preparing for years here, and it has been very carefully discussed with the professional public, so that a balanced compromise between the culture of the business environment and consumer protection can be reached. After all, I said in the introductory words that the Regional Court in Brno was also commenting on this lack of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u9	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher is now reporting with priority rights as rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'll speak directly to you. On the contrary, I am convinced - and I am not a proponent of regulation - that everyone knows about me - that this proposal has government logic. If you, Mr Vice-President, put your colleagues to work and look directly at the proposal for how many paragraphs it has, what these sections are devoted to - I will do such a succus because it's probably worth it: insurance, real estate contracts, information obligations, there is, of course, an information deficit on the consumer's side, how offences will be dealt with, exclusive real estate mediation, these are the exclusives, that is the protection of the consumer, how the statement is dealt with, how commissions are dealt with. There's nothing extra to complicate the situation. We're doing this for consumer protection. Nor for the protection of real estate brokers, lawyers, notaries, anyone, so it has ruthless logic. You were talking about the money, the banks. Well, that's a long story. Of course, money in banks is insured, deposit insurance, it is governed by different rules, etc. Perhaps we can get to that here, which I do not think was a good example, that in this logic, which the Vice-President here said, that we should all have the money only in the Czech National Bank. I think we all know it was kind of a rhetorical insertion, so it's probably not worth a wider comment. I repeat once again the Minister's words that serious offices are calling for this, because it is simply necessary. Again, we've been talking about this for eight or nine years. This means that I am glad that this government has made it to a specific form in the paragraphs, as I have described here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u11	Mr Dominik Feri will now speak in the general debate and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government present, I would first like to respond to Vice-President Okamura, why our compromise proposal is made by the bailiffs. This results for a simple reason: because they can already provide safekeeping today. This results from the execution order, which is a special modification. It's definitely not like it's some hundreds of thousands of safe houses. Executors provide these things in units of cases when the client simply asks them for some particular reason. With regard to our compromise proposal on safekeeping, Professor Válková will speak, which is sufficient to justify it. I would just like to mention that there is still the original proposal that prohibits the provision of safekeeping in general, flat-rate, and defines some qualified entities, which means banks, notaries, lawyers and foreign banks that can provide it. It is at the discretion of the Chamber of Deputies to decide which option is best for her. But I think that this amendment actually started the debate and helped draw up some compromise between the proposal of the government and the strictest form of ban. Once again, if there's a proposal going through that regulates the safekeeping that lays down the clear rules, then take the rest of the bill and don't bother. I don't care if he's rejected in the rest. But the safekeeping is a key point, a node point, it's, as I mentioned, the largest property disposition in most people's lives, and it should be regulated in some way. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u13	Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear and prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, first of all, I will make a very brief comment on our proposal to reject the law at third reading. We believe that this law, as it is conceived, will lead, firstly, to an increase in real estate services for end consumers at a time of high real estate prices, secondly, to a reduction in competition in real estate services, and thirdly, there are elements of the transfer of liability for property status from the owner and seller to the intermediary. In our opinion, no regulation will ensure the solidarity and honesty of the negotiations, and no regulation can describe all life situations, but every regulation brings new inequalities and injustices. Therefore, allow me now to address my amendments, which at least partially try to correct the injustices brought about by this law. First, I would ask you to focus on Section 12. In Section 12 a very not very common sentence appears in the Czech laws, and this is that the intermediary, thanks to his expertise, should know about something, so he should inform the client, the consumer, about it. In my opinion, the paragraph thus formulated is the transfer of liability for the state of the property sold from the owner to the seller and to the real estate broker. The formula that a real estate agent should have known about something is too vague, and as I said, it's not very common. From my point of view, it does not lead to consumer protection, but on the contrary, it gives the consumer a false idea that the real estate agent is 100% informed about everything. But that doesn't depend only on the quality of the broker, but on what information the seller told the broker about the real estate. And I'm talking about hidden flaws. I don't think we can objectively ask a realtor to give even hidden property defects that the seller won't tell him about. Imagine how that real estate agent should know that in the rain of the storm it flows under the windows when he takes over the property and sells it in the dry summer? How does he know a wall freezes out in the winter when it sells in the dry summer? That's what the seller has to tell him. In my opinion, the responsibility of whoever owns the property and who is the seller on the purchase contract and who is the mere intermediary is very much confused here. And I'm afraid that in the event of any dispute, the seller will develop at the expense of real estate brokers, and that will lead to an increase in litigation. I believe that my amendment does not reduce the information obligation of a real estate broker, on the contrary, in addition to public lists, I extend this provision to publicly available data. This means, for example, that he knows not only what is written in the real estate register, but that, for example, the city council has an intention to change the zoning plan, has some intention in the vicinity of the property, or the community of the owners of the units where the housing unit is located, intends to take credit and intends to increase the fees to the repair fund. However, instead of a very general and exploitable phrase that a real estate agent should have known about something, I suggest replacing this by a real estate agent asking the seller to declare the real estate; today real estate brokers are using the real estate card to get all the information from the seller. Then it will be obvious if the seller has reported anything about the hidden defects, then of course it goes to the broker if he has. If he didn't inform, it goes to the seller. I am convinced that this amendment does not lead to a reduction in consumer protection, but it also does not lead to the creation of excessive and unjustified expectations and the building of blind confidence on the part of the consumer that the broker is 100% informed by the seller in every respect. And also my amendment, I believe, does not lead to a reduction in the information obligations of intermediaries, on the contrary it extends them to publicly available data and specifies what concerns the state of real estate and hidden defects. I would like to ask you to consider supporting this proposal. My next amendment concerns insurance. I'm presenting it in two ways. In the Czech Republic, we all know it is a practice that many brokers cooperate on a contract with an umbrella real estate agency and closes business on its behalf and on its behalf. The draft of the insurance clause assumes that every real estate agent and real estate agent must be insured. This, from my point of view, leads to an accumulation of insurance costs, but the possible fulfilment of the policy will be the only one, from the insurance policy of which name and to which account the transaction is closed. I believe that the cumulation of insurance costs leads to an increase in costs which will ultimately be transferred again to consumers, but does not lead to a cumulation of performance, i.e. an increase in consumer protection. Imagine an example again. Imagine an average office, let's say with ten real estate brokers who work with the office on a contract, which means there's an insurance cost of eleven insurance policies, but the performance will only be from one. I believe that it is up to the consumer to have his business insured, but not to accumulate costs. That is why I tabled an amendment in variant I, which, in the event that the broker does not close business for himself, but on behalf of the real estate agency, the insurance obligation remains at the real estate agency, but removes from the real estate agent's obligation not to accumulate the costs. With this absolute cancellation, the Ministry of Regional Development did not agree, so I came up with variant II, which is halfway around and lowers the insurance policies for those brokers who make deals on behalf of real estate agencies, to 50 percent, so you can see that it is actually halfway. I would like to thank the Minister for that last proposal for a neutral position and for the economic committee for a positive opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u15	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Helena Válková and Mr Jan Zahradník will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, in essence, this amendment concerns one single provision which you are more familiar with under the name of safekeeping and offer of safekeeping. It is Section 4 which, according to our conviction - I am not the petitioner myself, it is basically a response and also cooperation with Mr Feri, without his initiative would not have occurred, and with Mrs Mala - where we are trying to improve the regulation, which is in the Government's proposal precisely in a provision which is, or may be, very controversial and which, if it remained in the present text, would continue to petrify a situation where real estate business is very advantageous, because, in terms of the safekeeping of sometimes millions of amounts, so unregulated, under-regulated, mainly in terms of protecting who entrusts such funds to a real estate agent. This provision, in the form in which we have it, forbids a real estate broker to offer custody and merely orders him to recommend a deposit by a bank, a foreign bank, a notary and a lawyer, but, in terms of the safekeeping of the purchase prices of real estate, it continues to make it possible, in principle, to mix funds with the funds of a real estate agent, so that he can cover his consumption costs. I'm not saying he does, but he can. [[12.40 hours]] Of course, it cannot even be prevented if something happens that, in the event of an execution or insolvency imposed on a real estate agent, it does not touch these funds. However, sufficient legal protection should not be lacking in the proposed new version of the regulation of real estate intermediation. So it was very necessary to improve this protection, and we have tried to do this because, of course, it is very easy and effective to ban safekeeping at all, which is Mr Feri's proposal, but here I very much appreciate that, after the discussion with him, there was a compromise proposal, which was also involved in the Ministry of Local Development, for which I thank him, although he has now surprisingly taken a negative position, but it has been helpful all along and legislation has helped us. We also spoke with the Czech National Bank. So it is not an amendment that would have arisen in my office in one afternoon, and it has been discussed, secondly. There were several meetings in the whole representative composition of both representatives from the Ministry of Regional Development and from the CNB, and we finally agreed on a text that you have before you, which explicitly allows real estate brokers to deposit funds in order to ensure the performance of the real estate contract, but those conditions are already fixed in the law and are the same as for others who provide such safekeeping very similar. Lawyers, notaries. Otherwise, don't believe it if they tell you that lawyers and notaries - I have dealt twice with ČAK, I have explained, they have stood still terribly and it would be very important for them to have the income from the safes if Mr Feri's proposal had been passed, which would have prohibited real estate brokers from taking such storages at all. It's not like that. These are amounts in the order of several thousand on average, and the protection that is now offered to those who are real estate broker clients is extremely valuable for this amount and is actually incomparable with what they will invest or what they should invest if they decide to do so. So what are the terms? I'll repeat them very briefly. There must be a request from the interested party for safekeeping in writing. There are really sometimes deposits of funds in the order of millions of crowns. The purchase price of the property. So it is necessary for such a request to be made in writing. I have no doubt that the real estate agent will help in his own interest unless the buyer himself comes up with a proposal prepared by his attorney. But that doesn't even count. There must be a cash-free transfer to and from the account of the deposit. This means that the requirement of transparency is ensured here. These separate separate accounts will be kept in a very clear manner for individual safekeeping. They'll be properly labeled. It will be treated, if I say it simply, with the funds entrusted to the real estate intermediary by the client, according to rules that are commonly applied in other professions that handle the funds entrusted to the client. Again, I have to quote a good example of a lawyer or a notary. And, of course, there will also be control. This was one of the nuts that we were then able to crack, and it is the municipal trade offices, where there is a new obligation, when the real estate agent will have to inform the municipal trade agency about the duration of the safekeeping, about the conditions, the moment it first provides such a safekeeping, and the municipal trade agency will carry out checks that should ensure proper compliance with the rules that are now newly, clearly in the conditions set out in Section 4 of our amendment. So it's nothing complicated. It is basically just a clear regulation, under which conditions it is possible to take custody of real estate brokers, how to provide protection, we called ourselves there practice, the grandmother who spends her life saving 200,000 to buy a garden entrusts to a real estate broker and now has no guarantee that they will really only be used the way they should have been used, and not to mention that in some cases we have the experience very bad. On the other hand, we do not want to completely withdraw this possibility from real estate brokers. We know that most real estate agencies are solid, that some of them have built up long-term trust and want to continue to work together, to provide this service as well. That is why I think that they should not have and should not defend themselves in their outcome, because this raises great suspicions as to why written regulation of something such as taking money into custody is hindered, so as to tell all citizens. This is not about anything other than making the consumer, virtually. the client of the real estate consumer was sure that if he entrusted him with the funds, he would only treat them for the purpose for which he entrusted them. A clear written contract, clear terms of the written contract, which must be modified there, and a clear check. Nothing more and nothing less. So I hope that, across the political spectrum, you will support this proposal in such a way that this final text will be beneficial especially for those who should be interested in making real estate mediation a profession like another profession of professions that will be recognised with respect and will not be called into question by several cases where there have been embezzlement of the funds entrusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u17	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník will now speak in the general debate and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on the real estate segment at the point of real estate mediation, it is currently the case that real estate agencies can offer and realize the deposit of money. No law forbids them, but only notaries, lawyers or banks can receive the reward for this safekeeping. Very often, real estate clients agree that the money that is the subject of their transaction until the time of registration in the real estate register will be kept with the real estate agent. If one of those parties, the buyer or the seller, doesn't want to agree on it, then, of course, there's a chance to keep the money either with the notary or with the lawyer, or eventually in the bank. It's not that common with the banks. And out of the two remaining options, the notary service is more expensive than the attorney's. Of course, the advantage of keeping funds from a notary, lawyer, or finally from a bank is that, under the law, these entities are required to be insured against the disposal of these funds and their clients are always sure that the accountant always pays - or vice versa, if for any reason he does not pay them, then the insurance company covers the payment of the money. Real estate agencies cannot insure themselves in a similar way, there is no product for this purpose for insurance companies. [[12.50 hours]] So that's why I made my proposal, which in the procedure is referred to as a proposal under the letter E, I think it's E1 to E11. So this is specifically the E1 proposal in combination with the E3 variant 1, or variant 2. So if my E1 proposal was approved, that is to say, § 4 prohibiting custody of real estate brokers would be abolished, then I suggest that we support the first option in the A3 proposal, i.e. the obligation to insure real estate brokers, or, more precisely, their obligation to insure themselves on the relatively high amounts that are set out in the A3 proposal option 1. The argument that it will burden real estate agencies with high insurance in the order of tens of thousands is not correct in my opinion. Of course, anyone who wants to do business in such a serious market place as real estate mediation must count on these costs. Finally, insurance brokers, who have been offering their services on the insurance market for many years, have this obligation and their insurance premiums are similar in levels as if they were based here for real estate brokers, and they have been running for almost 20 years and nobody resists, protests. Another version of me is the variant under the letter E3 variant 2. It is based on the fact that, if we maintain § 4, that we forbid real estate agencies to offer deposit money, then it is not necessary, in my opinion, to cover such higher amounts, albeit lower than I suggest, as stated in the government proposal, because then it is sufficient for the normal insurance that every broker has, i.e. insurance that protects them from the consequences of mistakes that they can make during their work. We actually have a law here that aims to protect clients, which, of course, is okay. On the other hand, we should consider whether we want to take away the possibility of a free choice with which money is kept. If we ban the deposit of money by law, as the House seems to be preparing for this, the government coalition, then, of course, the law will bring clients to notaries and lawyers who have kept their money at real estate agencies so far, and, of course, their transaction on the costs paid to these accountants will cost them. I, of course, intercede to abolish § 4 and lay down relatively high insurance, as stated in the E3 option 1. In addition, my proposal also contains parts that respond to the fact that, in my view, the concept of "interester" is not correctly used in the draft law. Under this term, both the person who comes to the real estate broker and offers him to sell it and the person who responds as a buyer of the real estate. That, in my opinion, should be distinguished. But if it doesn't, the world won't break down. Another important proposal is the one that proposes extending the notice period to a real estate contract from one month to three months. Finally, the last proposal I want to mention here, or the second-to-last one, is that if under the law, the client terminates the contract, so that it is necessary to pay the costs and a reasonable loss of profit. [[Number?]] And finally, my final suggestion. As this law significantly affects the real estate market, I propose extending the deadline for entry into force by one year, i.e. 2021. I wanted so much to say to clarify why I put forward my proposals and at the same time asked you to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u19	I will now ask for the speech of Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself for the final application for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm angry, and I'm asking you to wake up a little bit. Because what this government has been doing lately, with the support of a part of the House, you've been increasing people's taxes and fees, you've both adopted both automato of various EU regulations, and perhaps dramatically increased the prices of emission allowances, and chop-chop, you've already delivered it to the citizens today, chewed up into the legislative process, and the third thing I'm unfortunately watching is to regulate and piss them off. The Minister herself will say in her opening words: well, real estate agencies have not yet been regulated, so we will regulate them. What an incredible argument! And unfortunately, I have to quote Ronaldo Reagan and the government's view of the economy and economy, and that's: when it moves, let's make the most of it, when it's still moving, let's at least regulate it dramatically, and if it doesn't move, then let's donate it, and let's yell about it in the House, who will do more. Apartments are extremely expensive, apartments aren't. It's the work of especially green men and their friends at the city halls of big cities, and you're gonna make these people's apartments and properties expensive. The argument that real estate wants it - don't lie here! Yeah, it's what realtors want, but big ones, kind of like those who deal with the government. Of course, those normal people who work in county towns for a living don't want that. It drives a lot of them out, a lot of normal honest people out of the market. I personally know two, they happen to be ladies who have high school, they don't have an education and they've been doing real estate for ten, twenty or how many years. When it comes to safekeeping, leave it to those people who want to keep it where they want to keep it. I've already kept a notary's safe, how many times it wasn't, when it was a small amount. Someone trusts a big real estate agency more, somebody trusts what. I, for example, recently sold a car, and it wasn't quite a small amount, and I sold it to the person I trusted, so I signed the papers about three days before it got fucked up on my account, the money. But for the same reasons, there are often some frauds or problems in the sale of passenger cars that one doesn't pay, or someone doesn't transfer the car, so for the same reason you can come in tomorrow and say: here's a new law and we're going to ban the car dealership from accepting money for the purchase of cars, and it's just a notary or a bank, and there's gonna be a consensus between the MPs. So I'm asking you to leave the farm alone. How do I put this politely? Don't get involved all the time. And we, as Trikolóra, will support the rejection of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u21	Now I'm going to read one apology. Member Kateřina Valachová apologizes for today's work-related negotiations. One factual point, Mr Patrik Nacher, and immediately after that, Mr Petr Pávek will be given the floor. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would take the liberty of reacting easily so that some information that is false does not fly in the air again. The motion doesn't order anyone. Or -- I wrote down what my colleague Klaus said -- he doesn't forbid. It's not like that. Well, look at these paragraphs, if you're gonna sign up for it here, you really need to study it. He doesn't order, he doesn't forbid. Even the amendment, which comes from the constitutionally-legal committee, defines certain rules on the handling of the money, such as a special account, etc., etc. Reference is made to the Bank Act. Insurance. When you have money in banks, you have it insured up to 100 000 euros. It's also there with some degree of confidence you give, also the bank can snap, but also there's insurance. That means the rules are defined nicely, please. It's not that he's banned. He's not. I understand that regulation, and I'm not a fan of it, on the one hand, is racking up that life. And on the other hand, doing absolutely nothing about this thing and leaving the wild exit or how to say it, that's also wrong. This does not generally mean that the word regulation, which some of us do not like so much, is always wrong. When I go to the restaurant, I go there with some confidence that the restaurant has some hygiene regulations, that rats don't run there in the kitchen, that they won't poison me, because I'd have to check to see if they follow everything before every meal. That's not... Some of these rules have logic. And when you look at it, those sections respond to things that happened in the real estate business, starting with commissions, exclusives, insurance, and so on. I don't know what's complicated about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u23	Now I've got another de facto one. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment longer, Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u24	If what the rapporteur said was true, that the law doesn't dictate anything, it doesn't regulate anything, it would be useless first, but even if it wasn't useless, we wouldn't have an idea dispute. Take, for example, a large tightening of qualifying assumptions. A college student, a programmer, an IT expert cannot work in this area unless he has practice in this area. There's no logic to that. It doesn't make any sense. We can make up 180 regulations, what education, what school, how many there... This guy's either gonna do it right or wrong. The paper he gets at school doesn't guarantee it'll do you good. A client can be cheated by a college student, a high school student, or a person with a basic education. It's about the integrity of the personal qualities of those who mediate and offer their services. So it's regulation. We know exactly which type of higher education automatically generates the fact that graduates of these schools will be able to perform a real estate agent without further testing and who will not? So explain to me why, for example, some types of higher education are separated, for example, in the technical direction or in the natural direction. Then explain it to me, rapporteur. What's the logic? It's regulation that some group sat down, I don't know how big it was, and she said: yes, no, they can, they can't, they can have so much practice, or so much practice. But it's nothing about the quality of what these people are offering, how they treat clients, whether on the seller's side or buyers' side. So it's pure blood regulation. We have therefore proposed to reject the law. And I'd like us to agree on that in majority terms, and the House has rejected the law. It will cause less damage - less damage - than the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u25	Now here I have applications for two factual points. Three. So the order will be - Mr Klaus, Member Munzar, Member Jáč. He checked out now. So two. Member Václav Klaus. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u26	I have now heard that Mr Nacher has already been instructed not to comment, but I wanted to take a bit of action because I am angry, of course, through the President. Explain to me, rapporteur, if you are such a liberal YES mascot, what bothers you so much is a decent high school kid who's been on the market for 20 years running real estate. What exactly does it bother you? I'll bring these people to you. What makes you think it's so bad that you're loading the law and trying to steer this debate around to finally get us to approve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u27	I have two factual points to make. Mr Munzar has the floor and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u28	I've also been provoked a little by the rapporteur through you. I'm the one who said that no regulation would ensure the integrity and honesty of the negotiations. In any case, any binding of negotiations by new and new regulations leads to a reduction of free will and replacement of responsibility. I think we already have enough laws in the Czech Republic to describe it as a new law for every human activity. About what our club president, Mr. Stanjura, said. I said exactly the same thing here at first reading. On the one hand, the law assumes that he can become a real estate broker and graduate of the economic field of the university in marketing. He knows marketing tricks, he knows it well, he can sell a product. When it is really good, it can also sell a product that may not even be of good quality. On the other hand, someone with a high school must be in practice for three years. Someone who's been dealing with real estate all his life, manages it, maintains it, knows the technical state of the property much better than the one who's had marketing, so they have to pass the exam because they have basic education, but they've been dealing with real estate all their life. That's where the inequalities in regulation really are. And the main reason I'm going to repeat this - it's going to make real estate services more expensive for end consumers at the time of property price growth, it's going to reduce competition in real estate services, because it's changing from free trade to tied, and it's going to turn the liability for the status of the property from the seller to the broker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u29	With another factual remark, the rapporteur Patrik Nacher will speak. I'll read one more apology. From today's meeting from 13:00 to the end of the day, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u30	Thank you. As a liberal mascot, I would like to say here to my colleague Klaus that the example he set does not apply. When someone has a high school and 20 years of practice, if I've got it right, of course, it's good because there's talk of practice. Three years of practice. That's one point. Second point. Then I won't react. It's not like anyone told me not to, it's just so we could make it. The point is, when someone had a different view of it, I'm not saying that we all agree with each other, so he took it in such a way that he might have read the amendment. Expanding. Maybe. Or easing. Now I'm looking at my colleague Munzar, for example, and stuff like that. So if anybody cared about the three years of practice, they'd read it to have a year of practice. As far as I know, there is no such amendment. I didn't register him, if I remember correctly. In other words, the practice didn't give anyone the problem. That means if there's no education, there's three years of practice. No one suggested anything shorter. So that's why the three readings are here. When a person has a different view of it, it can be specified by amendments, softened and softened differently. I understand that if someone's against the law in principle, they won't interfere. However, I appreciate the ODS colleagues who have proposed rejection, but nevertheless they have also proposed amendments that we are dealing with in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u31	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Klaus. Please. Two minutes. That's the last real thing at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u32	I volunteered... Then at the end of your speech, you eased things a little, but you can't seriously think that someone who doesn't agree with any law will start making amendments? If I don't agree with the law absolutely, I think it's pointless, then I'm not going to make a fool of myself to write you some amendments. So this argument is odd. We were discussing this here at first reading, suggesting that we reject it. We didn't get most of the votes, so now we're trying it at third reading. But do not say that, as someone does not agree with the law, it is his duty to read some amendments. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u33	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Feri. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to a note. Mrs Matušovská apologizes from 13.10 to the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's fatalistic. That if I don't agree with something and I want to reject it, I won't try to do anything. On the other hand, there is a concept that sounds really political. We opposition politicians know this very well that we disagree with something. But at least we're trying to make it easier, Mitigate. Just come up with something. And just in this proposal, a specific example: safekeeping. The government draft says something like covering up the current situation, there's a strict proposal and a compromise. A real political proposal is simply what we have put forward with our colleague. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u35	Thank you, and these are exhausted factual remarks at the moment, so Mr Pávek's Member will get to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've already rehearsed the direction of the microphone, back again, direction of the microphone, back again. But don't worry, it's very short. I just want to introduce you to the opinion of the Mayors and Independents Club. We will support the motion to reject the law as a whole in the first round. We consider this standard redundant. And in those others, if the rejection of the law does not pass, as we assume it does not, we will always vote in such a way that the effects of regulation in this sector are as small as possible. Allow me just a short slip - we consider the right to an education to be really stupid. That's something that doesn't make any sense at all. We all know, especially from rural areas and outside Prague, we know a number of real estate brokers who do their work very well for a long time, and many of them do not even have a high school, but they are well oriented in the material, they know the local environment, they are honest. So we have no interest in making life difficult for them, or even destroying them with some regulatory standard that only large corporations and interest groups are calling for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u37	Thank you, too. That was the last application for a debate at the moment, so if no one is reporting from the point of view, I am ending the debate. I'm asking the plaintiff if she's interested in the final word. He does. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u38	Thank you so much for the floor. I listened very carefully, I tried not to get out, because of course I can sum up a lot of things within the final word. Not that I want to confront anyone here, but just please, it's really unfortunate if you're putting information on the air that anyone who has an old practice will be unlucky. That's just complete nonsense. So who has practice, of course, will be able to continue to pursue his profession. We are just trying and reacting, and I have to smile here that the Civil Democratic Party has given the impetus to the law on real estate activities. It took a long time, I admit, but it's finally here. So let me now just comment on the amendments tabled. We have an amendment here for a total restraining order. I really have to say no to this, and I have also responded to this subject in the context of the interventions. There's no reason to take such a step. The government proposal primarily supports the provision of safekeeping at banks, notaries, lawyers and real estate agencies can provide it on request. I would like to put this provision in several contexts, so that you have clear views as we have approached it. I cannot agree with the fact that tightening storage is happening because of the unreliableness of real estate agencies. The preparation of the government proposal was conducted by trying to simplify the decision-making of clients, but at the same time leaving them free to make their decisions. A client who has repeatedly had good experience with a local real estate agency should not be forced to change his economic behaviour at once. So let's leave the freedom to make his decision. The law should primarily tell those who have little experience. One of the Member States' proposals is also aimed at safekeeping in the sense of dividing their limitations by a financial limit. And it was stated in the reasoning that it was necessary to distinguish large and small shops with the possibility of providing safekeeping to a real estate broker in small shops, in large stores the safekeeping should be entrusted to professionals. I must also define myself against this, or specify my previous line. The point is that safekeeping with more stringent regulation and administration does not create additional costs for fees, so that the safekeeping is not a brake on the entire business in small business cases, except in the case of lawyers, notaries or banks. However, setting the limit there is not a solution. In Mr Zahradník's proposal, Mr Zahradník's idea of abolishing the whole of Section 4, i.e. the abolition of the restriction or the regulation of safekeeping, said that in this case the storage of brokers will then be completely and without regulation legal. At the same time, it is conditional on a 15-fold increase in insurance premiums. It must be noted here that the cancellation of § 4 will not completely release the deposit, as it is stated in the previous paragraph that the storage can only be facilitated by the broker. And Section 4 follows this provision logically when it explains what it means. Here it must be pointed out that there is no way that insurance can cover up deliberate embezzlement of money. Insurance always covers only insurance damage that could arise against a client, such as leaving running water on during a search, etc., that is, it really is the damage that occurred there. Definitely not embezzlement. In conclusion, let me comment on Mrs Válková's comprehensive proposal. It introduces safekeeping regulations, their records, strict sanctions for infringements of this regulation, and even a comparison of such regulated safekeeping to the equivalent of attorneys and notaries, from the point of view of the protective amounts deposited on banks' accounts for possible bank collapse, up to a limit of EUR 2 x 100 000. However, I must draw attention again to the administrative complexity of the entrepreneur's side and also to the complexity of the control from the point of view of the Authority. The Bar, which carries out similar supervision of attorneys' storage facilities, has a simpler situation than the trade offices will have. They would have to proceed in breach of the broker's law and, if necessary, deal with the appeal in accordance with the administrative rules. I will therefore disagree with this amendment because I do not see why to increase the client's trade by over-regulation caused by higher administrative costs. Colleagues, colleagues, once again, I would like to thank you very much to all those who have devoted themselves to the preparation of this law. I would like to request the approval of the Government's version of the Act with my agreed amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u39	Thank you. That was the plaintiff's final word. I am now asking, Mr Nacher, the rapporteur, who is not interested in the final word. Mr Dominik Feri, on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, is he interested in the final word? He's not interested in the final word. In that case, we will first vote on the motion for rejection and then on the amendments. So I'm gonna call my colleagues to the O.R. We'll deal with the procedure until we say no. There's an application for check-out, I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. For those who have just arrived, I repeat, we will vote to reject the motion. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 334 includes 148 Members and Members, for 49, against 87. The motion to dismiss was rejected. So now I'm asking you to design a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the draft procedure, as we agreed on the Economic Committee, with the fact that the first vote would be on rejection, which we have already passed. At this point, we should vote, then we should follow legislative technical proposals. There's three of them, then I'll go back to them. Then the proposal you will find under letter A is a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. If it had passed, which concerns safekeeping, there would have been unvoted amendments under letter D, E1, together with E3 variant 1 of Mr Zahradník and Mr Feri G Member. Then we would move on to the amendment under letter B of Mr Kalous. If it had passed, the two proposals by Mr Dolínek, which you will find under number C3365 1 and 3. Then we would move on to Mr Dolínk, where we will find it under the letter C3367.1, C3367.2 and C3366. Then, if the B had not passed, the two proposals already mentioned by Mr Dolínek 3365.1 and 3, then 3365.2. [[13.20 hours]] Then we come to point D of Mr Pour, unless A is accepted. Then we come to the letter E1 and E3 variant 1 of Mr Zahradník, unless A is adopted, and E3 variant 2 unless the proposal by Petr Dolínek 3367 is adopted. Then we come to all the other Es of Mr Zahradník, from E2 to E11, with a vote on this, on each of these proposals, on the Economic Committee separately. Then we come logically to the design of F3423 colleague Munzar and then to his two variants F3538 in the order of variant 1, variant 2. Then we would vote on Mr Feri's letter G. But if A was approved, it wasn't. And then there's the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u41	Thank you. That was the design of the procedure. I believe they've all recorded it. Unless there's another procedure... Mr. Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u42	I am, therefore, very sorry to the rapporteur, I do not like to correct him, but if legislative technical amendments have not been mentioned in the third reading, there is nothing to vote on. Or the debate must be reopened, which I do not think is the moment when the rejection vote has been voted on, but the debate at the third reading is intended to record legislative technical changes, changes in effectiveness and what we are all used to talking about here. But it cannot be said that legislative technical changes will not be said until after the debate. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u43	That's true, so now we have a few options. One is that someone proposes to open a debate, and the other is to say that legislative technical changes are not. [[Voices from the diaper.]] rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u44	Okay, just so you know. Well, I'm sorry. I had the rapporteur's experience that these legislative technical adjustments were then loaded just before the vote. For your information...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u45	They need to be read in this similar debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u46	Okay, I'm sorry. In two cases, it is the clarification of the proposal by Petr Dolínek, who, if Mr B's proposal passes, will be equally unvoteable, so I think it is solvable, and one case is the solution to efficiency by shifting efficiency, which, today, is in Section 26 1.January, given that we are discussing this on 8 November, would be the first day of the third calendar month. Okay, it's unvoted, so in that case, at that point, it would be that the law would be effective on the 15th day after the announcement, which represents a short legisvacation period, but it can eventually be corrected in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u47	If there is no other proposal, we will continue to vote on the procedure, with no legislative technical amendments, so we will not vote on them. If no one has a problem with this, I'm taking the vote and asking who's in favour of the procedure like this? Who's against it? In the 335 vote, 152 Members and Members are registered, for 152, against no one. Please, rapporteur, the proposals are to be made in a gradual manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u48	The first proposal is under the letter A. It is a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which you will find under the number 391/6, concerning the custody, control of the Trade Authority and the Bank Act, as described here by Helena Válková. [[Noise in the hall.]] Opinion... [[- Please, calm down.]] Opinion of the Economic Committee - Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u49	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 336, 152 Members and Members are registered, for 102, against 15. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u50	In that case, Mr Pour, Mr E1, along with Mr E3 of Mr Zahradník with variant 1 and Mr Feri under letter G, are unvoteable proposals D, as we have approved. I'm just reporting it this way. We're getting to B. It is Mr Kalous's proposal, which extends his qualifications as a bachelor. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u51	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 337, 152 Members and Members are registered, for 133, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u52	Thank you. In that case, Petr Dolínek's proposals are unvoted 3365.1 and 3, so it was one of those legislative technical modifications, so we have this resolved. We are getting to the proposal C3367.1, which is the proposal by Petr Dolínek, which distinguishes two types of insurance. The opinion is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u53	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 338, 152 Members and Members are enrolled, for 12, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u54	Then we're at proposal C3367.2, which says that the insurance should be documented by the Ministry, based on a call. [[President: Please give the opinion of the Committee.]] Opinion of the Committee - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u55	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote No. 339, 152 Members and Members are enrolled, for 4, against 88. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u56	The next proposal is under letter C3366. The point is, one month's testimony was just about the consumer. The Committee's opinion is - a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u57	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I've started another vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 340 vote includes 152 Members and Members of Parliament, for 143, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u58	We will find another proposal under the number C3365.2 of Mr.Petr Dolínek and it concerns exams for employees. The opinion of the Economic Committee is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u59	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating further vote 341. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. The number 341 votes 152 Members and Members, for 7, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u60	Thank you. Give me a minute... D is unspeakable. E1, E3 is non-voting. And then there's the vote E3 variant 2 of my colleague Zahradník, i.e. give the insurance away completely, which would be unvoted if Petr Dolínek passed. But he didn't pass, so theoretically, it's voteable if someone here doesn't fix me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u61	I think that's how it fits the approved procedure. What is it that has already been said. Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 342 includes 152 Members and Members, for 7, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u62	Now we come to the part of Mr. Jan Zahradník. There we agreed to vote separately on each item. E2, that's where we start, dealing with a good physical person. The opinion of the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u63	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 343 includes 152 Members and Members, for 25, against 82. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u64	Another proposal under the letter E4 of Mr Zahradník, which in Section 11 replaces the candidate's word - one who is interested. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u65	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote No. 344, 152 Members and Members are enrolled, for 22, against 81. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u66	The next proposal is under the letter E5, where, on the contrary, in Section 12, words are added after the word of the candidate - about the acquisition of the right to immovable property. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u67	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 345 includes 152 Members and Members, for 22, against 78. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u68	The next proposal is under point E6, which repeals paragraph 4 of Section 12, i.e. the possibility to withdraw within 14 days from the interested party. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u69	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote No. 346, 152 Members and Members are enrolled, for 6, against 91. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u70	Another proposal under the letter E7, where Mr Zahradník proposes to delete the whole of § 13, i.e. in order for the real estate agent to have to prove the documents which the interested party had. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u71	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 347 includes 152 Members and Members, for 25, against 91. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u72	The next proposal is under the letter E8, which returns by § 14 that the intermediary belongs to the costs and loss of profit. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u73	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 348 includes 152 Members and Members, for 6, against 89. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u74	The next proposal is E9 which extends in section 18 the statement from one month to three. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u75	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 349 vote, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 23, against 107. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u76	Another proposal by the second-to-last Member of the Gardener E10, which in § 19 para. 4 inserts the word real estate. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u77	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 350. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 350 vote, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 22, against 90. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u78	And Mr Zahradník's last proposal under E11 changes efficiency - it shifts it by replacing 2020 with 2021. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u79	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 351, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 24, against 90. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u80	The next proposal comes to Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr F3423, who eases the obligation to inform in Section 12, replaces this by a statement on the state of the property sold. The opinion of the Committee shall be without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u81	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 352, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 50, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u82	The next proposal under the letter F Vojtěch Munzar number 3538 has two variants and increases insurance for franchisants, the first option is at 0 per cent, the second option we will then vote by 50 per cent. The first variant - the opinion of the non-complainant committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u83	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 353, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 43, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u84	And now the second variant F 3538, i.e. insurance for franchisers at a level of 50 per cent of real estate intermediaries. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u85	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I started voting number 354. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 354, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 81, against 9. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u86	Thank you. Then we said the letter G was unvoting, and in that case, if I have the right notes, we will now vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-08-ps2017-035-11-006-211.u87	Yes. If no one objects, I also have everything that is accomplished. So I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal on real estate intermediation and on the amendment of Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business, which is a trade law, as amended, i.e. the law on real estate mediation, according to the House's press 391, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 355, 151 Members and Members are enrolled, for 88, against 45. The motion has been approved. So I'm saying that we agreed to the bill, and that's all at the moment. I thank the rapporteur, thank you to the appellant, and if no one has anything, we will end this point. Let's move on to the next point, which is point number.
