ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-002-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 151/1997 Coll., on property valuation and amending certain laws (Act on property valuation), as amended, and other related laws /house printing 501/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. We'll give the Minister the room to take her place at the rapporteur's table, and the Minister, of course, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-002-021.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly introduce to you the draft law amending the property valuation law, which was prepared in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan. The main objectives of the envisaged draft law are: the introduction of a market value as an alternative in cases where the usual price cannot be determined in the light of the lack of data or where other legislation so requires, namely the Act on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and the Infrastructure of Electronic Communications, the Bonds Act and the Consumer Credit Act; the specification of the process for the processing of cost maps of construction land; establishing the concept of rapidly growing trees and their method of valuation prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture; a new approach to the valuation of the right of building and material burdens and the related valuation of immovable property burdened by material burdens and similar rights. The proposed draft law is of a general nature, therefore it is usable for a wide range of entities and for various valuation purposes. It is supplemented by a proposal for the provisions in question in other related laws. Effectiveness is proposed on 1 January 2021. So I dare ask you for a hearing and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-002-021.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Petr Vrána, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-002-021.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me only for a short time. The important thing was heard from Minister Schillerová's mouth a moment ago. However, allow me to emphasise the main objective of the bill. In particular, the aim of the bill is to ensure compliance of the property valuation law with the current state of law towards the area of valuation. The main reason for the processing of the proposed legislation is the introduction of market value, further refinement in the processing of price maps of construction land, newly introduced valuation of fast-growing trees, specification of the text of the modification of the construction, updating the provisions on the valuation of material burdens and adjustment of the valuation of the damage to the owner of the immovable property. I believe that the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the petitioner, who is the Ministry of Finance, is very well and comprehensively processed and I beg you to support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-29-ps2017-039-04-002-021.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate on this point. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. At the moment, no one is registered in writing. I repeat my call if anyone is interested in speaking to this point. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anybody checking in. So I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby and we'll vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 88. Registered at the moment 142, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees to discuss? I see no one, I say that we have therefore exhausted all the votes, I end the first reading of this proposal and I thank everyone. Opening point number
