ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-018-135.u1	135. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine related to Biomedical Research, signed in Strasbourg on 11 May 2018, /German press 253/ - First reading There is a mandate for Minister Vojtěch to present the proposal submitted by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who is already ready and who I am now giving the floor to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-018-135.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Supplementary Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Biomedical Research, signed in Strasbourg on 11 May 2018. I would also like to refer only to the Additional Protocol. As a member of the Council of Europe, the Czech Republic, an international organisation working on the principle of discussion and search for common solutions, participates, inter alia, in solving economic, scientific, legal issues, as well as the maintenance and development of fundamental human rights and freedoms. It is with this aim that the Czech Republic signed the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine in 1998. [[12.40 hours]] In the light of developments in the various fields of medicine, four additional protocols have been developed extending the existing principles and the legal protection of the persons concerned, which are governed by that Convention. One of these documents is the Additional Protocol related to biomedical research. Ratification of this protocol by the Czech Republic will ensure the highest legal standard of protection of dignity, identity and integrity of all who become participants in the research process. The Additional Protocol provides a clear guarantee of their fundamental rights. The Additional Protocol was adopted in 2005 and entered into force in 2007. It was signed in 22 countries of the Council of Europe, and in 10 of them it was ratified, among others. also in Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia or Norway. The rules and conditions for carrying out biomedical research, which the Additional Protocol specifies in order to ensure the highest possible level of protection of research participants, are respected in the Czech Republic. From the point of view of the Czech Republic, ratification of this Additional Protocol is a confirmation of the high ethical standard of research projects implemented here. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give your consent to ratify this international treaty and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-018-135.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Pavel Plzák. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-018-135.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I thank the Minister for presenting her point. I would like to try again a brief summary of what she said here. The basic treaty to which this protocol is being discussed is called the full title of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Being in connection with the application of biology and medicine. the Treaty was established on the Council of Europe and entered into force in 1999, when five states were ratified. The Czech Republic ratified it in 2001. The Treaty, as has been said, regulates human rights in connection with progress in medical and biological sciences and the application of research to humans. As has already been said, this treaty allows for the conclusion of additional protocols and so far four additional protocols have been adopted. The first one is called the Additional Protocol banning cloning of human beings, to which the Czech Republic has already acceded. The second is called the Additional Protocol on Organ Transplantation and Tissues of Human Origin. The third is called the Additional Protocol on Biomedical Research, which we are currently discussing, and the fourth is the Additional Protocol on Genetic Testing for Health Purposes, which is currently in the ratification process and has been discussed in the Foreign Committee of our House and waiting for second reading. We now have an Additional Protocol to the Biomedical Research Convention before us at first reading. The aim of this Protocol is to protect human beings in the process of biomedical research and does not concern research on non-living embryos and biological material of human origin. This issue is already partly regulated by Czech legislation and does not require immediate follow-up to existing laws. Ratification of the protocol will have no impact on the state budget. The Protocol was signed in 2005 and entered into force in 2007. So far, according to my data, it has been ratified by ten countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-018-135.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur, I am opening the debate. No one is in or out of the debate. So I'm done with the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees. There is one proposal from the President of the Chamber of Deputies to order this proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? No. We will vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 236, 175 Members signed in for 144, against no one. I note that we have ordered this government proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. I end the first reading of this proposal. Mr Dominik Feri apologises from today's meeting from 12.30 to 15.00 for reasons of work and Minister Kněžínek apologizes from 12.30 to the end of today's day for reasons of work. We will now proceed to discuss the point.
