ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u1	29. Government draft law on real estate intermediation and amendment of Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business (business law), as amended (Act on real estate mediation) /German press 391/ - first reading I thank the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, for being at the rapporteur's table, as well as the rapporteur for the first reading to Patrik Nacher. [[There's noise and restlessness in the room.]] I'll ask the House for peace. And as soon as the House calms down and the noise level is not so high, I will ask the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, to state the bill on behalf of the government. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u2	Mr President, colleagues, let me introduce the proposal for a law on real estate mediation. The bill that you now have before you is the result of a discussion with all interested parties whose comments have been settled or explained in full. In general, we want to protect clients from recurring errors and from abuse of the stronger position of real estate intermediaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u3	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace! If you're having a debate that doesn't concern the press at 391, please be in the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u4	It is particularly a question of the uncertainty of the calculation of the real estate agent's remuneration, so called. commissions. Furthermore, avoiding the practice where commissions are claimed from both sides of the real estate contract without explanation. We also want to define precisely the conclusion of intermediary contracts. The practice of oral contracts is unacceptable. The client should be informed precisely, should not be withheld from the real estate status, its legal and technical defects. He should know what he's signing. The practice of the current signature of the intermediary contract with a vaguely defined commitment to future trade, from which it can no longer be linked, will also end. And if a broker causes injury to his client, the client should be protected by compulsory insurance so that the damage caused is without any problem replaced. In the law you will also find a number of provisions that distinguish the mediation of real estate trade from the general terms and conditions of mediation in the Civil Code. The reason is simple. We want to give clients a guide on how they should act in real estate trading with an intermediary, what they can demand from them, what they can't do and how they can defend themselves in case of doubt or obvious disappointment. However, we also want to cultivate our own brokers' market, their competitive struggle, by this law. We want to return the profession of real estate agent to weight. I would like to ask you to release this law for second reading, because it is on the committees that we will certainly debate as much discussed topic as it is. the deposit of money or the provision of qualifications and professional training of individual brokers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u5	I thank the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, for her opening words. And I will now ask the rapporteur for Mr Patrik Nacher's first reading to present his intelligence report. I will also ask the House for peace of mind so that other colleagues can move their debates into the foyer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u6	So thank you for your word. I'm renting this place today. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, we have here a presentation, press 391, a government proposal for a law on real estate mediation and amending Act 455 on business. For me not to repeat what the secretary said. It's about protecting the client from the stronger position of a real estate agent. From my point of view, I'm going to follow up on the previous subject - it's protecting the weaker one, not weakening the stronger one. It's an eight-year-old vision. The aim is to make it a tied business. In some aspects, consumer protection is broader that it is not consumers, but interested ones. Therefore, the consumer does not have to be just a natural person. In particular, matters such as commissions and remuneration for real estate agents are addressed, the responsibility for providing information. At this point, it is important for clients for several reasons that I would pierce here. The client is not sufficiently protected nowadays, as he is not sure that he is dealing with a qualified person. In the absence of mandatory liability insurance for the real estate agent, clients to whom the real estate agent has caused damage are difficult to recover. That happened a few times. As well as real estate intermediaries, or mediation is generally considered to be a service for which they are to be provided or to be provided at a professional level by persons with professional knowledge. Of course, the person who sells real estate or buys real estate automatically expects that from such a person. For myself, I am absolutely in favour of going through this, to let it pass through the second reading. It belongs to other consumer measures, as I said. Before that, we had measures here to make mobile data cheaper. Now it's a measure regarding real estate agents. There are mass lawsuits in front of us, etc. [[11.00 hours]] Personally, I see at least two things for myself that I would like to have a debate on in the second reading, and that is to allow the purchase price to be stored, because currently some real estate agencies are offering it. It is described here that they will not be able to offer it actively, but on request. I see the problem a little bit in the absence of a directive. These are all things that we can solve at second reading. As an example -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u7	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you again and ask the House for peace. I repeat, if you are discussing something other than the Trade and Real Estate Act, it is crucially in the foyer. Or I'll dictate the biggest jammers in the protocol. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u8	Thank you. As an example, I would like to state to the Bar which has an implementing regulation for this purpose, which states that each individual case must have a separate account. Similarly, the discussion at second reading deserves a topic of professional competence, testing. According to the proposal, practice and testing is not necessary, but we know from the market that there are some brokers who do the work in the long term, but maybe shockingly, so the question is whether it is necessary not to extend the expertise survey to these cases as well. That means that someone can sell one or two properties a year, do it for ten years, but they actually do something completely different for a living. Once again, it's a new thing, but the thing we've been talking about for at least eight years. I ask and ask for support and release for second reading, where some of these things, such as the examples that I have set out here, this means professional competence, safekeeping and the like, we can somehow incarnate some changes, implement a different perspective, but in any case, I think the law as a whole deserves to pass. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u9	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate. It is Mr Vojtěch Munzar who is the first Member to join it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I'll look at this law from two angles. One will be, let's say, general, ideal, and the other will be specific on specific paragraphs. Legal regulations are not merely technical or technocratic. Each regulation, as a result, contains either more regulation by the state, and thus less free will of people and less room for free agreement of people, or less state, less regulation and interference with human life and allowing free will and greater room for mutual agreement of people. Left-wing parties always come up with a superior concept of the state, an increase in regulation, a model that does not trust people, and therefore treat them as little unworthy children, who must stand by their hands and spank them over their hands, mostly under some godly pretext that they must be protected in quotes by one or the other, and the state is here to resolve this wisely for the people. He exploits cases where someone simply makes a bad decision, usually a few days before adopting such regulation, articles start coming out in the media that draw attention to examples of abuse of law, and then people are told that the state is supposed to solve it with some new regulation. But this approach leads to restrictions on the free will of citizens, the destruction of their own responsibilities and the planned creation of society, that the state should be the guarantor of everything, always and everywhere. It can actually stand for personal failure or bad decision because it did not protect its citizens sufficiently from themselves. There is a planned creation of a claim company that is entitled to solve all problems for people. And the more we place responsibility in the hands of small parts for our lives of the state, the more we give him the instrument to make decisions for us, and limit our freedom and justice. Maybe it's more comfortable for someone, but let's ask ourselves a question - is that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u11	Well, I understand you very well, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I will ask the House for peace, and I will ask that the parties transfer their debates to the lobby. If they are concerned with their debate on the law on real estate mediation, then let them sign up for the debate. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Freedom and free will without the intervention of the state, however, poses a risk of a bad decision and also the need for internal strength to make a decision. Freedom includes the right to own mistakes, and the possibility of an agreement is linked to it purely according to the will of the two people who are to agree. With every new regulation, with every new law that restricts free choice, we do not lead this society to its own responsibilities. On the contrary, we lead them to create a comfortable society where claims are promoted to law, where the state decides everything, always and everywhere. And it's always hiding behind some God-like suggestions. That's why I'm always very careful when someone comes up with a law to protect someone. Indeed, most of the time, under the cover of consumer protection and similar regulations, interest groups who want to gain some competitive advantage, exclusivity, restrictions on the entry of competition into the market, and so on, are caught by interest groups. For me, this law is a crystalline example of similar thinking. And no wonder the left-wing government and the left-wing parties are so enthusiastic about it. It is no wonder that at this meeting it is already the second proposal - sorry, it was also at the previous meeting, I apologize - the law in a short time that proposes the transfer of some free trade to tied. The area of real estate mediation certainly does not work ideally and without errors. I expected the state to come and tell you where there are gaps in existing laws and how this gap is abused unfairly by some dishonest people. This would be a way of protecting consumers in terms of specifying the rules. But here, under this law, there is more of a bonding of the market and a transfer of responsibility from the seller to the intermediary. The biggest problem that is perceived sensitively in the public is whether the conduct of real estate brokers is solid and decent. And can this law and any law really guarantee solidarity and decency? Somewhere in the media, I read that this law should improve the integrity of real estate brokers. Does anyone really think that some new law will reduce dishonesty and increase honesty? The proposed form of regulation is unnecessarily exaggerated and will not ensure a declared increase in the quality of services and, in particular, the solidarity or honesty of the negotiations. For he can be a solid and honest broker without education and a disgruntled or dishonest one who has the education. Only the one with the education may be more sophisticated. This law will not ensure solidarity, but will lead to restrictions on the entry of new brokers into the market, and this exclusiveity and reduction of competition, together with new costs, will lead to an increase in real estate services. I know a broker who doesn't have a college degree. He's a learned mason, but because he had a solid meeting, he worked his way up, and he's a sought-after real estate agent today. And this law would not allow such a person to become a broker, or only with great difficulty and with great expense. And I also know a college-educated broker who memorizes all the laws, but I wouldn't trust him to sell a garden house. A good marquee maker can wrap a bad product into a nice wrapper and force it on people successfully, simply to convince them that black is actually white. For example, we don't have to go far and into the real estate market, do we? And that, according to the petitioners, is such a Market guy, the right prototype of a real estate broker, but no longer the one who does the reconstruction of apartments all his life and at first glance knows all the glitches. It's the kind that has to do the differential exams, the professional exams. But even RIA tells us what this law is all about. That the number of real estate transactions is falling and professional and long-term real estate agencies have to deal with the competition of smaller or new ones called RIA unprofessional. And that is the real reason for the introduction of the law. Exclusiveity and reduction of competition. [[11.10 hours]] Today, clients are free to choose their own free will between prestigious real estate agencies with good reputation and apparently trained employees, but they are more expensive or less prestigious cheaper competition. That's what the Ministry says to protect customers from. This is an effort to prevent, make it difficult and make it more expensive to enter this business. And a lot of people who are dealing with this as a secondary activity today, we're gonna force a lot of people into the gray zone by this law. They'll keep doing it, just hide it behind a friend's or neighbor's help. The second problem brought about by this law is the transfer of responsibility from the seller to the real estate broker. This will lead to the magical wording in the current proposal that the real estate broker should have known about the defects due to his professional competence. So, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to these lawsuits where real estate brokers will be developing every day today. For example, that there was a leak in the rain or that the building was not heated enough in the winter, or that there was a hidden defect in the property somewhere. A marketing graduate like that finds out with one look, that's the right real estate agent according to the bill. According to the plaintiffs, the law will contribute to more selling houses and apartments. But that's total nonsense, this argument. People dealing with the housing situation do not make serious decisions based on the quality of real estate agencies or real estate brokers. They decide according to their current life situation, their income and property prices. Everything else is completely secondary. The number of properties offered on the market will also not increase by amending this law. So the law will only mean moving commissions from one to another, not new business. The calculated positive impact on the business environment can therefore be considered very slightly problematic. With regard to the positive impact on the state budget, in other words, the petitioners say that real estate services will become more expensive. But do we really want to make it more expensive for people to get their own place? Isn't the property acquisition tax enough anymore? Isn't tightening the mortgage terms enough? Do we still have to make regulation that will make real estate services more expensive? Do we really want our own housing and its acquisition to become increasingly expensive? We in ODS didn't. We should leave room for an agreement between the seller, the broker and the buyer and not try to determine their every move and guide them by hand. If we approach every human activity in this way, it will be necessary to have special permissions and trials for everything. By law, you cannot increase solidarity and decency. And I also have my doubts that this will increase the quality of services and consumer protection. But as I am sure that this bill will lead to an increase in real estate services, and therefore, Mr President, I am making a motion to reject this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u13	Thank you, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. The rapporteur has certainly noted the motion for rejection. Now, Mr Václav Klaus' factual remark. A colleague Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u14	I will respond to my previous speaker, Mr Munzar, and I will just say this a little bit more briefly and perhaps more frequently. Riches arise from work and from people's private activities, all sorts of things. On the contrary, the government's view of the economy looks something like this: as long as it moves, let's tax it, if it's still moving, let's regulate it, and when it doesn't move, then let's subsidize it. That quote was once said by Ronald Reagan, and it fits very well. Here, the parliamentary benefactors have already marked the bad currency exchangers, and they've welded up a lot of decent currency exchangers and complicated their activities. So now we're going to go on to bad real estate brokers, which we need to check somehow and tie them up with regulations. Brokers don't have it easy anymore, because other bad people are developers who can't build anything anymore, so there are no flats, and real estate brokers have a huge problem offering something. So that's another factor that's involved. Excuse me, this responsible and educated person - you're seriously saying that the person who unlocks the apartment and shows that there's a bathroom, there's a kitchen, and here's a nice view, must they have a college education? You push out a lot of normal people who haven't studied for 27 years, just out of the market and drive them, I don't know where. Of course, there are many large real estate agencies, which have very precise rules, even more stringent than what you are talking about, very standard. Well, there's a lot of little ones that sell some cottage and so on and so on, they do it cheap, this guy runs around. What's the big deal? It's also a step towards expropriating apartments. We've already seen the mayor of Prague expressing himself that, in fact, a person shouldn't have to hold on to the apartment, sort of, what to do with it. Okay, let's get these real estate agencies checked out first. Let's get this thing under control. And the last thing - education and solidarity. [[Time warning]] Those lawyers who helped rob the OKD had the perfect legal education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u15	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's point of view, then Mr Ferjenčík's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u16	Hello. Mr President, Members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, by your means, I would like to respond to Mr Munzar's contribution and Mr Václav Klaus Jr. Gentlemen, don't be mad at me. I'm a notary, I'm a civil-life lawyer. I've done dozens of contracts. I'm starting an essay. Are you serious? Look all the way west. Everywhere in the West, the real estate market is regulated by law. And today, what is the current situation in the Czech Republic? Forgive me for the expression, but every guy who has 18 years of age has a citizen's license, goes to a businessman, pays a thousand crowns, so the tradesman's office prepares a trade license for production, trade, services one to three, free trade, with the subject of business or with the field of activity real estate activity. And these people are being entrusted with their life savings these days. How do you tell those people who entrust their life savings, millions of crowns, these people who have no education, no professional experience, and so on, they lose their life savings, how are you going to tell them that? Don't be mad at me, but if every realtor and every realtor tells you that his legal activity is part of the commission and that legal activity is part of the fees, show me real estate brokers who actually provide legal activity. According to lex specialis, the law on attorneys and notary regulations, legal activities can only be carried out in the Czech Republic by notaries and lawyers, with the exception of executors. But show me those real estate brokers who are now providing legal activity. Nobody provides this legal activity, everyone downloads contracts from the Internet, and then they provide real estate and people entrust them with million-dollar assets. Don't be mad at me, but not having regulation in real estate, it's a clondike. And I'd like to thank the Minister for finally, after 30 years, someone finally made the legislation. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u17	Mr. Ambassador, your time has ended for a point of fact. Now Mr Ferjenčík and then Mr Václav Klaus's factual comment. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would only like to respond to Mr Klaus' words about the money changers. In my opinion, we have adopted a very appropriate regulation that has introduced that if a tourist or a citizen feels robbed in a currency exchange, in three hours he will come to the money exchange and have his money returned. We even accompanied it by canceling pre-contractual information, so the level of paperwork remained exactly identical as it was before the amendment was adopted. I think the novel was very appropriate, very reasonable. It allows the real enforcement of the prosecution of those cheaters who, unfortunately, often rob someone in the centre of Prague. I stress that it is only a fraction of the currency exchange, but the problem is very real, you will normally get CZK 15 per euro in Prague, even though it faces the sign that it is necessary 23. So here, I think we have adopted a very appropriate law on the regulation of money changers. I don't understand why you're throwing this together with this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Václav Klaus, Patrik Nacher, Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u20	So, of course, a lot of honest exchangers have a problem and a lot of worries, because the law was adopted because of some one or two exchange offices in Prague that did fraud, and they were to be taken by the police. But that's not the merit of the matter right now, this law, and I respect Mr. Ferjenčík's right to comment on it. To the notary who spoke. Well, look, I've lost quite a lot of real estate in my life, but no real estate agent has taken it away from me in my life, but always ex-wife. [[Unique applause and laughter]] So according to the same logic, we could also make some laws about God knows what. On the contrary, every time I bought those properties, I put the money into a notary safe house, because I didn't want to give it to some eserócka and so on. So people are supposed to be responsible for their property, and that's it. You as a notary are protected by this and you have a business that notaries are not enough, the state determines it, I respect it. I don't think that when someone sells a garden cabin, it's such a necessity that people can just do it really, that they run out, make a living, and those who are decent and successful, build a big real estate, and maybe have the same trust as a notary's. They're real estate. Those who don't have that trust don't have that trust. But it's useless to adopt another law and to sneak another part of human life with complicated regulations. 'Cause then the living one... doesn't have much left in the company, like I quoted Ronaldo Reagan. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher, also with a factual remark, and four others with a factual remark. Then you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u22	Thank you for the floor. Well, I often agree with my colleagues Klaus and Munzar, but at this point, I must disagree, although I hate to. Those words about left-wing government seem completely useless to me. Because we're actually dealing with what's accumulated here from the past. Let's just say that and not walk away from the wall to the wall. The one extreme is regulation or overregulation, and the other is functioning completely without rules like in some wild east or west. The example, yes, currency exchange, guides, and now real estate agents. A colleague named Ferjenčík said that at the money exchange, and I think that should have been done a long time ago. That should have been done a long time ago. There it is again, it's always about the same thing. And I'm consistent about this. It is the strengthening of the weaker party, not necessarily the weakening of the stronger party. If someone doesn't offer half-level courses, then none of these clients are worth it for a penny to go around the money exchange, and it won't hurt them at all. A colleague here spoke of the administration, which I would say is almost smaller than it was before. With those guides, I was the one who suggested it wasn't a tied business, but a free trade. So, colleagues, please. And this is about defining some rules so that this person can be certain. When you go to a restaurant, you also have some degree of hygiene that happens in the kitchen. And you don't go there, either, when you order food, you don't go to the kitchen to see if everything goes well there. There's some kind of confidence that the restaurant is following some rules, some rules. It doesn't necessarily have to be, I called it a dirty word that it's regulation. It's the definition of rules. This market hasn't been defined in any way until now, and it's been clondike. Well, thank God we got something here, even if it's not ideal. Let's put it in second reading and we'll make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Mr Jan Skopeček, further Dominik Feri, Tomáš Kohout, Vojtěch Munzar. [[A rooster.]] You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u24	Thank you very much. I'm logged in properly, but I couldn't take it anymore. I'd like to respond to my colleague Kohoutek, I hope I don't smack my name. I think people make a lot of contracts today and every day without needing lawyers. I bought a snack today, a newspaper, I've already made a few sales contracts without needing your advice. I think that even real estate mediation takes place in this country today and on a daily basis very much, hundreds or thousands. And I'd like to hear from the secretary, from you, how many people in this sample are so screwed up, so damaged that this amendment must be adopted. I understand the lawyer's call for this novel. Lawyers, of course, are comfortable with a complicated legal system, it suits them to scare consumers, it suits them to have a condition to enter into contracts with notaries, lawyers, but it is only a call for lawyers to make bigger profits. In short, I think that the world is not such that the state has to hold people and consumers' hands at every moment when they buy or buy something. And I think that citizens of the Czech Republic need not be considered stupid. Undoubtedly, the vast majority of them have acquired housing without your services, my colleague, and have done well without being damaged.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, also with a point of fact. A fellow gardener is also patient, duly logged in. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u26	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government present, I also agree that if we regulate, then less than more. After all, I am also sitting on the right side of the Chamber. And I'm going to take the liberty of suggesting some kind of compromise, or the minimum of regulation that we should be trying to do. And he mentioned it here, too, a colleague named Klaus. When he bought some real estate, he turned to a notary and entrusted the money to a notary's safe house. That's the node point. If that real estate agent is going to have a compulsory college, a mandatory high school, God knows what, I don't think a regular citizen is gonna give a shit. But he should be interested in what's going on with the money in the meantime. And I'm sure some people can't tell when that real estate agent gets him drunk with a roll and says to him, "The money's fine, it's with me, it's never happened to me here. It's a safe house. They can't tell if it's legal, bank, or notary. That's the absolute minimum we should hold on to. I wanted to talk about this only in my discussion paper in a proper debate, with a proper application, but we should - let us leave all the rest, but let us leave it there that only notaries, lawyers, banks can provide the safekeeping, because it is crucial. When a real estate agent depreciates the money or somehow manages it in the sense that it covers some of its operating costs, that's wrong. If the money goes away, who's gonna have that black Petr in their hand, who's gonna have to do the damage? The one who's already served or the one who's entitled to it? That's just the kind of thing we should agree on. They're life savings. My colleague Kohoutek, through Mr President, mentioned this here. That is what we should agree on, and I am glad that my colleague Klaus has also admitted that this is a responsible approach, giving it to the notary. I believe that a large part, most real estate brokers are honest, but this is an instrument, an instrument originally submitted by the Ministry, which should be incorporated there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u27	Your time has ended for a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador. [[- Thank you.]] Now another factual remark by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, which is registered twice. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u28	Thank you, Mr President. A colleague of Václav Klaus Jr. Mr. Klaus, you are an educated, successful, responsible man. You said it yourself. You've arranged for the notary or barrister's safekeeping. But the vast majority of people entrust their life savings, millions of crowns, houses, apartments and garden cabins to the real estate agency. Each real estate agency will write to you on its website that within the commission and fee for real estate activities and for real estate mediation are legal services, safekeeping. What's the reality? The vast majority of real estate attorneys, notaries, have never seen and the vast majority of real estate agencies entrust the money, or future buyers pay it, so forgive me for the expression, running through their standard accounts. They're spraining their laps. And forgive me, Mr. Klaus, if you lose your garden cabin or property worth your garden cabin and some gardens, you'll survive. But there are people who, for that reason, forgive my expression, have taken away their lives. And these people aren't units, they're tens, maybe hundreds. And really, if you don't care about losing two hundred, three hundred thousand by some irresponsible act, the vast majority of the people in this country, when they lose their assets worth a hundred thousand, they really are existential problems. We were here a few months ago discussing an amendment to the insolvency law, and forgive me, but the real estate business, where tens of billions are spinning, really in this country it's a clondike, and there's something to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, also with a point of fact. And we've got four more. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u30	Thank you. I just want to briefly respond to my colleague Kohoutek through you. There's probably one line I've been saying here. I said I'd expect the Ministry to come up with some kind of analysis, some kind of assessment of the legal gaps being abused by the dishonestes, and suggest a solution. But instead, we have education requirements here. And I'm not really convinced that a solid person can also be a... that even the inconvenient person who has an education just doesn't fool that person. On the contrary, he may do it more subtlely. [[11.30 hours]] We're talking about two different things. You're covering it up by trying to protect the consumer, but you're putting other requirements on real estate brokers that don't make it more solid. You're putting in various measures that will make real estate services more expensive. The costs are calculated, I'm not quoting them here. It's tens of millions. But you really say one thing here, but you do the other. If we really talk about the gaps in existing laws that are specifically abused in some way, then we can talk about it. But you guys are walking around with a change in the market because you want to tie it up, you want to get exclusive, you're making people into really inappropriate people, and I don't like this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Kohoutek, with a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus will prepare himself for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is meaningless and contradicts itself because, under the pretext of improving the quality of services, it introduces qualifying conditions, which, of course, at the same time cancels for those who already work in the business. It is clearly an attempt to introduce discriminatory conditions for new market participants in a competitive fight. This is against the interests of entrepreneurs and, above all, against the interests of consumers. The current legislation gives candidates for real estate mediation enforceable rights to anyone who provides real estate sales. The submitters admit that their law tries to limit competition in the market by formal restrictions and that the aim is to increase the revenues of existing real estate agencies. The explanatory memorandum literally states that the current situation - I quote - is ultimately reflected in the decline in the sales of real estate intermediaries and the reduction in the number of real estate transactions carried out with their participation. The aim of any law is not to increase the sales of any professional group at the expense of the overwhelming majority of normal citizens. I therefore propose rejecting the Trade Business Act, House press number 391/0. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus is now also making a point of fact. Member Miroslav Kalousek and Karla Maříková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u34	I will respond to Mr Kohoutek and Mr Feri. Firstly, there are a number of completely trusted real estate agencies that have been on the market for 20 years or more and have exactly the same credibility as a notary, are insured and so on. There's no reason to bully them in any way. For example, I remember that my first broker was Novotný - Pokorný, who may have already started as a Bolshevik, as they allowed the early eighty-ninth small business. I don't know if this gentleman is still alive, but I'd be willing to entrust him with life savings if he was still a real estate agent. A notary can also do drugs or do God knows what, or a notary can depreciate money for you. It can happen, he's only human. So let's talk about how big insurance policies are supposed to be for those who take that kind of money for safekeeping. A certain amount. I didn't always give a thing to a notary when I bought something. When it threatened me that it was life savings, I did it. Now that I rented an apartment, of course I didn't, because notary services are expensive. So that means a lot of people, too, like those college kids who hire apartments and stuff, are going to be extremely expensive for them. And that is actually a response to my colleague Feri. I understand what he means, but there's always the rate, the risk level, the price level. And it's this way, for example, for students or young people, that we're gonna cost their rent if we block and regulate it. Otherwise, of course, I'm on the people's side to protect them. So let's talk about insurance policies for people who take money for safekeeping so they don't lose it, but not in that kind of way that the law does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek's factual remark, Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u36	Thank you for the floor. On what has been said by my previous speakers, I would like to point out that tightening the qualifications requirements of brokers, especially those who have been doing the craft for quite a long time, is unnecessary and absurd. But as far as safekeeping is concerned, I would like to ask you here, because I agree that, after all, a lawyer, a notary, as a real estate firm, can defrad the safekeeping. That's something you just have to count on in exceptional cases. But when the real estate firm comes into bankruptcy, when it goes bankrupt and has the money in its accounts, I believe that as it is now, there is a risk that safekeeping is the subject of bankruptcy. And I think that, if that is the case, it is simply a rather strong argument to insist on notary or barrister custody.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Karla Maříková, with a point of fact. Dominik Feri will be prepared, also for a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Kohoutek's previous speaker. The law does not at all regulate whether the real estate agency or broker must retain the money in the legal or notary custody, but restricts the conditions under which it will be able to carry out this activity. If you want to talk about this, let's adjust the law so that real estate intermediaries will have a duty to deposit money in a legal or notary safe house, but let's not restrict people here under what conditions - that they have to have a university education - they can pursue this profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Allow me to read the apology received from the Chamber of Deputies before another factual remark by Mr Feri. From 5:00 p.m., Mr. Jaroslav Holík, from 11.30 to 14.30 p.m., Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, from 14.00 to 17.00 p.m., Mr. Adam Kalous, from 14.30 p.m. to the end of the sitting day for family reasons, Mr. Běhounek and colleague Mašek from 11.30 p.m. to the end of the sitting day. Now, Mr Dominik Feri's factual comment. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. One more important thing. Lawyers and notaries are insurance. That must be mentioned here. And I would also like to hear some data, quote from a questionnaire that was processed by the Ministry of Regional Development in 2014, where there were several hundred respondents and asked them what they really wanted with the safekeeping. 47 per cent - 588 people said that the barracks, that they considered it safe; 315 - 25 % - bank deposit; 17 per cent notarisation and only 10 per cent of respondents stated that they considered the custody of the real estate agent to be safe. And then the question was also conceived a little differently in terms of whether they even want custody of listed legal professions. The result was that 68 percent yes to lawyers, notaries and banks, and 30 percent of respondents said that it doesn't matter about the type of safekeeping, but it is important that the money is protected from execution, insolvency and embezzlement. Okay, but do you think most people know what an exclusion lawsuit is? You think he knows what's going on with the money when the real estate agency falls into insolvency? I don't think so. I'm just not convinced. It goes above all - and this really mentions the 30% of respondents - about safety. And security will simply be provided by someone who knows how to work with money, who puts them in an account, who is insured - certainly, can defraud them, but there are some insurance mechanisms that protect the life savings. I will support some amendment... my colleague Kovářová and I have already drawn up such a proposal. But if there are any compromises to be agreed on, where the government's majority agrees with the opposition, and in short, the goal of protecting money is achieved, I will support this amendment. It is also possible to point out that it considers the custody of the real estate agent to be a safe one percent. [[You won't be able to do that again, my colleague.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u41	The time for a factual remark has ended and you are still registered for a proper debate. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, one more point of fact. Mr Dolínek will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u42	Thank you, Mr President, that is exactly what Dominik Feri said here, virtually. what Mr. Václav Klaus Jr. said earlier. You said the real estate agencies were insured. But today, really, the establishment of an eseróc is a matter of one day, about CZK 11,000. You start an Eseróčko with a capital of one crown, you go to an internet bank, you put one crown in it, you start an Eseróčko, you have a free trade, and the next day you can broker millions of people's property deals, with their lifetime savings. That's the problem! It's just that today, everyone who has a primary school is entitled, he's 18, he's got an I.D., he's going to a business office. If he does it cleverly, he's gonna make an Esero with a crown share capital before he does it, and the next day, people can trust him with their million-dollar assets. If the esserócko of the public, to say the least, goes into bankruptcy, these people have no defenses to get to their property. Because money flows through their current business accounts, property is long gone, and ordinary ordinary people have no protection whatsoever. Put yourself in a situation of completely normal 80 percent of people who are not lawyers, are not economists, and do not know and do not understand the difference between legal custody, notary custody, between entrusting their money to the administration of some real estate agency who founded an eseróčko three days before. That's what this is about. I know they're units of percent of the cases, but units of percent of the cases bring these people into an existential emergency because they lose their life savings. And then when the 60-, 70-year-old lady looks you in the eye, that some realtor who was founded took her life's property, so-- [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u43	Don't make me break the rules of procedure. All duly logged in, I'll inform you that I have six more factual remarks here. We begin with Mr Dolínek's factual remark, and a colleague Richter will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u44	Thank you. Given what's gone wrong here, I'm going to say what I have to say now, and then I'm going to check out to shorten your discussion. By the way, I would just like to refer you to a memorandum where we have all promised ourselves that we will not be showing this what we are now doing with the factual ones. So please try to think about it. For social democracy - we defend one thing in these areas, whether it was Airbnb, or exchange offices, or guides, or just real estate agencies. We're not going to regulate anything until the moment we need to regulate it. If people in one house don't agree on how to use apartments to protect all tenants or owners at the same time, then regulation comes. The same in the field of tourism and the like. That's why we support this law. However, I thank the Minister for the last two sentences, and we would like to underline them for the Social Democracy Club, that we see the largest area, of course, in the area of money storage and qualifications that needs to be discussed here. And it may surprise me that I speak a little bit of rhetoric partly to the right, but here I think it is necessary to balance, and after all the proposals, amendments and after all the discussion posts here and on the committee it is necessary to look at the balance of what is commanded and what is allowed. That means, at this point, we have to say that we can't turn real estate agencies into provocatives, but we also have to look at the fact that whoever buys doesn't choose real estate. He chooses who sells. So to protect the buyer, the seller, and, of course, to protect the real estate agency, so that it can still work on the market. So there is a crucial debate for us over the next two months, and we firmly hope that the Ministry officials will be available to provide us with some analytical data for this discussion, if necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Richter's factual remark, Mrs Maříková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I would just like to give you an example from practice, when somehow I got to buy the land as a building plot. However, the real estate agency that put it on the site described the land as building with everything that belonged to it. This means engineering networks, etc., or other options that have not been modified at the moment, that they will be modified for the future in a short time. That means that the information I drew from the real estate company's website and the realtor's website was free to build any family home there. However, the on-the-spot investigation found that the contrary was true. There were various barriers at the site, i.e. they weren't engineering nets, they didn't allow the water, they wouldn't pull, they wouldn't let the waste water, they wouldn't allow the tanks. There were gradually some important problems with the renditions, which still a lot of money, so also another burden that the broker did not explain there. And at first, he was pushing for another buyer to buy the land, and it would be good to make a decision now or not. If there was a person who wouldn't think like that and go to the depths of the problem to figure everything out and go through all sorts of things, including the mayor and the people who are affected there, neighbors, etc., they'd buy worthless land that only fits in the finals to feed sheep. And I think that the expertise that should explain these things, and if there's an obstacle and it's hindering the construction, that broker should explain and in some way advise on how to further evaluate the land and make it a construction site. And that's not what happened. So, of course, I support the novel here, and I agree with what my colleague Kohoutek says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Karla Maříková's factual comment. A colleague of Václav Klaus will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask the petitioners if they have any statistics, how many real estate agencies and how many middle-school agents and college students embezzled their finances or their clients' money. Because it seems to me that because of the case forces that have been said here, we're turning all the brokers and real estate agencies into thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u49	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus's point of view now. Vojtěch Munzar and Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u50	I'd react again. I think that when you have the performance prepared in advance, you really want to say something very factual, and factual remarks serve to respond to each other. At least Mr Kohoutek looks at me mostly when he talks, responds to me, I respond to him, so that's not wrong. Sorry, that's not the way the world is, it's got one crown, it's got a basic education, and the next day thousands of people give it millions. People aren't that stupid. And especially when you're so worried that a bad realtor and a currency exchanger etc. It will do you great harm - much more people will be harmed by politicians and MPs with their senseless laws. And then I could argue here that maybe it doesn't even have to be self-righteous, that it's enough to reach 18 years and you can sit in the House and deliver laws to people, but it shouldn't be, and you should have a lot of damage, Ph.D., and I don't know what else. So if you're as holy as you are to real estate brokers, and the vast majority of them are perfectly honest, then we might as well adopt some law on the MPs. For example, a person can only become a Member when he has four years in taxes, including compensation, that would be fair. Or that a Member can become a person who has a degree in college such as that and poppy. And everything else. We don't do that, but now we're gonna attack a bunch of people who do honest living. Maybe they weren't lucky or social conditions that they weren't going to study, but they're normally doing their job. So let's do something specific, solve the insurance policy on the deposits, that's probably what's most dramatic there, but let's not start regulating another part of the normal world that someone's going to rent an apartment, and now they can't, and I'm going to run ten times to a notary about it, and I'm going to spend $30,000 more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Munzar's point of order, then Mr Juchelka. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u52	Thank you, Mr President, I want to respond by your means to Mr Kohoutek. Only when he was talking about insurance. I was surprised, because when I turn to the real estate agency, I also wonder if he has insurance, and I was surprised what was written in the explanatory memorandum to this law. Members of the Association of Real Estate Agencies are all insured, with a limit of CZK 500,000. During the period when the insurance events of real estate brokers are recorded by the Association of Real Estate Agencies, no case was recorded - where the amount of the transactions would exceed CZK 100,000. And the law proposes a limit of 1,750 000 insurance, which, according to RIA, will mean 400,000 CZK of costs for those real estate brokers, which they will then, of course, bring to the price of their services. I'm looking forward to the debate, if my motion to dismiss the law doesn't pass, to a second reading where we can clear this up, but this is what I wanted to read to you and respond to what you said about insurance. And I really don't want to make any more factual points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Aleš Juchelka's point of view. Tomáš Kohoutek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u54	Thank you, too, Mr President. I wouldn't turn real estate agents and real estate agencies into bad guys. As far as safekeeping is concerned, I remember a major real estate robbery, and that was, I believe, the realtor's safekeeping - just because an attorney escaped from it. I also ask why keep it at the banks if I list here at least ten banks that embezzled savers' deposits and de facto failed, and not only in the 1990s, but also after 2000. And I'm also asking if notaries, if something like this happens, like the extended hand of the state, have some insurance on notary deposits and savers who keep money notarized. I don't think any such insurance is guaranteed by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, with a point of fact. I'm taking your time again, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Munzar. That's the problem. They're real estate agencies, the vast majority of real estate agencies, you're right, which are decent, honest, and they do their job well. And they're mostly members of the Real Estate Association. But in today's legislation, you don't have to be a member of the Real Estate Association, and you don't have to be insured in any way, and that's the problem. And those dozens, maybe hundreds of cases where people lost their life savings, mostly from those garage real estate agencies, to say it in general, which was mostly a koruna eseróčka, or an eseróčka with core capital, or were business entrepreneurs who had it as their 20th activity and once in a while brokered some real estate business, and that's why it happened. To Aleš Juchelek. Aleš, it is precisely the difference that every lawyer, to become a lawyer, has to go a long way, must have education, must pass a bar exam, must be registered at the bar, must be insured. And the same thing to become a notary, it's an even longer journey, even more work and even more insurance. Each notary must be insured for at least 5 million. The vast majority of notaries are insured at 50 million plus more. And that's the problem that real estate agencies, a lot of them, don't have to be a member of any association, they don't have to have any exams, they don't have to have any insurance, and then people can't be surprised if something happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Now, my colleague Skopeček with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u58	Thank you very much. I am glad that we have returned to a normal discussion which, in my view, should not have been made in the form of factual remarks, but in the context of registration. I would like to begin by saying that I consider the law to be completely unnecessary and further complicated by our legal system, and therefore, of course, I support what my colleague Munzar has proposed, that is to say, rejection at first reading. The bill is a victory in the idea of the state thinking that it knows better than people what to do. It is a victory of the idea that everything in our human lives must be regulated and regulated and that without these regulations and regulations we probably would not survive a minute in the jungle of life. I fundamentally disagree with this idea and it is one of the main motivations why I am in politics to defend free people who can make decisions and behave better on the market than officials, Members or any politicians think. In this case, the idea has been won that business is a jungle based on the principle that every businessman exploits consumers and the consumer is in a position of weak, who always loses. That is not the case. If the market is free and there is sufficient competition, that means a sufficient number of real estate intermediaries in this case, it leads to the success of those who are decent in the long term. That is why, of course, we do not experience fraud in the vast majority of mediation, but we experience fraud in absolutely individual, minimal cases, as is the case with other businesses. When we go to buy a car in a car dealership, we usually succeed, but sometimes we buy shit and then we sue the car dealership. After all, when we come to the restaurant, we don't always cook a delicious lunch. How do we react? Well, we're not going to the restaurant again, just like we're not going to the car dealership where we were fooled, the car. This, of course, leads to the cultivation of the business environment. Not regulation, not consumer protection in the form of legislative regulation, but purely that the consumer can vote with his feet and choose providers who have some history on the market who have some references on the market that are important to him to choose precisely this intermediary. What is the real main objective of the proposed law? We have been talking about consumer protection here for a long time and we are figuring out how to protect consumers, but the main objective of this law is somewhere else entirely. The main objective is to limit the number of intermediaries in the real estate market. That's the only and main motivation of the translator. The state, through the Minister and those who wrote the laws, simply thinks that he knows best how many real estate brokers are supposed to work on the market. For some reason, they have decided that the existing number of intermediaries is redundant, that it is too high, and for some reason they want to reduce this number of intermediaries. That is why they also come up with this dramatic complication of business in this field, with an increase in qualifications for university, which is absurd and absurd, only to reduce the number of intermediaries to close this sector for other interested parties who want to do business in this field and to preserve it for existing and particularly large real estate brokers. It's an attack on the smallest, the smallest. I don't understand, and I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State why a high school kid can't open an office with a real estate agent. What is so undignified about high school education with graduation that these people can't do qualified work as intermediaries? We're just gonna send the seniors to the workers' profession? Can they only make a living with their hands and can't they be real estate brokers? In four years of high school with graduation, isn't there enough guarantee that these people can do qualified real estate broker work? In short, the state pompously thinks that it knows better than the market how many brokers should be on the market, and the increase in qualifications is an attempt to reduce the number. Of course, the result of this effort will not be the cultivation of the business environment. Business environment with no regulation, no law to cultivate, business environment is cultivated only by sufficient competition. And this law goes against exactly the competition. By thus dramatically increasing the qualification requirements, you will, of course, reduce the number of intermediaries and reduce competition in this market. This will only lead to increased profits for a smaller number of intermediaries and final consumers, for those who want to purchase or sell real estate, the prices of this service will increase. We were just discussing the law on electronic communications, dealing with how to make it cheaper mobile data. Many of us agree that the only way to make mobile data cheaper is when competition increases, that is, when another provider of these services comes to market. In this case, you are using a completely different logic and you are saying that services for final consumers will increase when there is less supply on the market. It's absurd, it's illogical, and it doesn't make any sense. So my conclusion is that we stop leading consumers and citizens by the hand. They are not stupid people, they know how to behave, they have a sufficient supply of long-term proven real estate agents on the market, who have sufficient references to provide an adequate service for adequate money, regardless of whether they have a high school or a university education. I'm sure we can figure out that there's some unfair practice in the finals that some particular realtor is gonna cheat somebody, but I'm sure we already have legislation that can punish dishonest intermediaries. [[12.00 hours]] So I very much urge us to maintain common sense, to win the idea that not everything needs to be regulated, to make it work, that, on the contrary, these regulations often lead to unintended consequences which complicate life for our citizens; so that we don't complicate their lives and, above all, cost them their real estate intermediary services, because it will be the result of this law, which will bring down the supply of real estate intermediaries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u59	Thank you, my colleague Skopečka. Mr Jan Zahradník now. Sorry. Vice-President Tomio Okamura has applied with priority rights. I apologize to a fellow Zahradník. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, there hasn't been a standard in the House for a long time that would defend a lobby so uncovered. The proposed amendment makes it quite clear that competition on the market is restricted by the fact that the existing situation, i.e. Those who already work in the business do not have to be afraid of change, but the amendment overwhelms access to new applicants for the job of a real estate agent. The law is absolutely redundant because, under the pretext of improving the quality of services, it introduces qualifying conditions which, at the same time, have practice for those who already work in the business, in other words, in the words of the legislator. The law also proposes compulsory custody or insurance, i.e. again obligations that will make real estate services more expensive and bring a few extra papers for all parties. It is quite outrageous that the petitioners essentially admit that their law tries to limit competition in the market by formal restrictions and that the aim is to increase the revenues of existing real estate agencies. The explanatory memorandum to the law literally states that the current situation - and I quote now - is ultimately reflected in the decline in the sales of real estate brokers and the reduction in the number of real estate transactions carried out with their participation. End of quote. I think that the objective of any law is not to increase the profits of any professional group in the sense that it is to be at the expense of the overwhelming majority of normal citizens. The aim of the amendment is to improve customer protection. But, in fact, in all the planes of our lives, one thing is enough - quick and simple enforcement of law and, above all, justice. And the government coalition hasn't worked on that in the long run. If injustices or frauds are done in any field, the problem is, in the first place, that the victim has a very complicated way of obtaining his rights, compensation for damages or punishing the guilty. No school, let alone a course, as the authors of the law believe, is a guarantee of better service. This requires skills that you will never learn at school and personal responsibility for damage that is quickly and effectively enforceable. I understand the effort to employ high school graduates. But the market should, if possible, give everyone the same chance, graduates of any school, and, by the way, where it goes, even those who don't have schools, but maybe have a natural talent. The most talented man on the planet for advertising and direct sale David Ogilvy left his second year of high school and never finished it. Even without it, he became a world phenomenon in selling anything. He founded an advertising agency that makes billions of turnovers, and the most remarkable thing is that he did all this without passing any accredited course or proficiency test. But let's do some more examples. One of the world's greatest inventors, Edison, who was a greater visionary and businessman than an inventor, went to school for just a quarter of a year. And we're talking about a quarter of a year in first grade primary school. Edison's headmaster thought he was mentally retarded. The author of thousands of patents was lucky that he did not live today and here during the reign of the ANO, the CSSD and the KSČM movement. I have no idea in which field our bureaucracy or this government would allow him to work. He'd probably sweep the streets. An educated journalist asked: "Mr. Edison, is it true that you invented a light bulb without knowing Ohmův's law? " Edison replied: "Luckily, I didn't know him. If I knew him, it would delay me." There are fields where education and expertise are necessary. I don't doubt it. And I want to point that out, I'm not gonna argue with that. They're majors, like art, where talent is needed. And there are fields such as business, and I know that from experience, where first and foremost talent and honesty are needed. And that, in our opinion, is also the case with the sale of real estate. This law is seemingly banality, but it's a principled road to hell. We indulge our world with regulations and destroy creativity in the name of formalism. We're harming ourselves and the entire society. Our journey must be the opposite - to the maximum where it is possible, to simplify people's lives, to access work, to business, to feed themselves. Unfortunately, this government does not do that repeatedly. That is why the SPD is proposing a motion to dismiss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Zahradník in the general debate. Mr. Feri will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u62	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to comment briefly on the previous discussion. The degree of distortion of the Rules of Procedure and the abuse of factual remarks is really great and we are experiencing various funny and absurd moments, such as when Mr Dolínek swears us not to misuse those factual remarks under some kind of internal agreement here, but at the same time he makes his discussion contribution in the context of that remark. That's almost a Cimrmanovian unsolvable logic loop. Or when another colleague here directs his remarks to another Member, he calls him, and even calls him by his first name, as part of his factual remark. That's completely back to the other side from a formal point of view of something sprained. We're talking about education in education, the benefit of education, or, on the other hand, the advantage of obstinacy in ignorance. It's hard. As a teacher, I can hardly lean on the side now that ignorance is an advantage. I'm sure it's not. On the other hand, I remember, here in the last parliamentary term, approving the law on pedagogical workers prevented a number of gifted teachers of engineers who do not have that pedagogical education so that they could replace the desperately fatally absent teachers of physics, for example. All right. Now, on top of that, about the real estate agency law. Forgive me, Mr President, I had to say these things, but on the other hand, I abstained from those factual remarks, so I see your smile as such an encouragement to come to the point. The law is a special law and, as such, it should, of course, be subject to a more general law, such as the Civil Code, in a sense, and should follow its provisions. I will begin immediately with the first concept that raises doubts about some of the real estate brokers' status, and therefore they have also turned to me to try to interpret their doubts here and finally lead to some conclusion on our House's resolution. The first point concerns the concept of a candidate who is somehow defined in Section 3 in our law. The Civil Code in Section 2445 states that the intermediary undertakes to arrange the conclusion of a contract with a third party. So the word of a candidate is a binding term, a general term, based on the Civil Code. Our law on real estate mediation, virtually. some provisions, however, give the impression that the candidate is a specific person, and the obligations of the real estate agent towards that person suggest that I am probably right to say that he is a property owner, an apartment, a house, a property that comes to a real estate agent with an interest in paying off his real estate in the real estate market, i.e. to sell it. [[12.10 hours]] In addition, there are other people in this process of the real estate market who are actively in contact with the real estate agent. He's, for example, a man who lives, I don't know, in a pedestal, saving money with his wife, and they're interested in buying a house. They also come to the real estate broker with an interest in somehow satisfying their desire to own the house and finding the real estate for them. The question is whether this person, too, refers in a definite way to the concept of the student. Some of the explanations of our law suggest that this is not the case. And then there's the third type of person. These are the people who come on the basis of reading the ad that the broker placed somewhere, I don't know, in the papers, on some billboard, and to which he offers the property, which he has decided to sell for the interested parties. Let's just say he's been treated in the least of our laws. While the first and the second real estate broker enters into a contract with it, he doesn't even have to enter into a contract with the third. So, in some places, our law tries to cope with this problem, for example, in § 11 para. 1. The law submitted by the Minister works with the concept of a candidate for the acquisition of ownership of an immovable property or of a right which contains or with which a right to use or to enjoy a immovable property is attached. But right in the same paragraph in his second sentence, only the concept of a candidate is used. I think it's understood what kind of student they're interested in. I think it should be clear here that not only real estate brokers, but actually real estate brokers' customers should be clear about what individual concepts mean. It should be possible to distinguish the owner of the property as the candidate of the principal or candidate number one, the other, the one who comes with interest to purchase the property, as other interested party, or as I once quoted, the applicant for the acquisition of the right to immovable property or the right which contains or with which the right to use or to use immovable property, the apartment or non-residential premises is associated. It could be this extensive. It is difficult, but therefore these categories of real estate customers would be distinguishable. Another problem that is here and which I have been alerted to is the problem which contains paragraph 4 of Section 12. If, at the latest at the time of the conclusion of the contract on real estate intermediation or the information referred to in paragraph 2, the customer does not submit the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 to the customer, or the information referred to in paragraph 2, no later than 14 days after the date on which the specific object of the transfer or the object of use or use or use is known to the customer and the real estate agent, he may withdraw from the contract on real estate intermediation. - How do we translate this? The real estate broker has an obligation to inform the interested party, i.e. the buyer - about the property defects. If the intermediary doesn't do it, the candidate may withdraw from the contract. That's legitimate if the contract exists. However, given the third category of persons involved in the process, the contract may not exist, and there is nothing to withdraw from. So the question is whether such a paragraph describes all the possibilities that life, the green tree of life, can bring.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u63	Ambassador, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down so we can hear the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u64	Mr President, don't apologize. I'm able to handle it somehow. Thank you very much, however. The term becomes complicated, not confusing, even in Section 13. He says: If the applicant has declared that he has become acquainted with documents referred to in the Real Estate Intermediary Agreement, and if the circumstances give rise to serious doubts that this has actually occurred, the real estate agent must prove this fact. - That's really a very complicated and complicated thing. When the interested party, whether the owner of the property or the person who wants to buy something, said that he had met all the documents, who in God's name could seriously question this claim? I understand that the Civil Code today allows the conclusion of contracts without written basis, some oral agreements that have every right to be implemented, but this paragraph is probably pointless here. Now, aside from the confusion in the interests of the interested party, it's hard to explain how the realtor should prove that he introduced the interested party to the documents when the interested party himself declares that he was familiar with them. Probably every broker who wants to practice seriously will have the candidate confirm in writing that he has fulfilled his obligation. So I think this paragraph is redundant. Another problem is in Section 14. It states: In the real estate contract, the obligation to enter into a real estate contract or a contract to conclude a future real estate contract cannot be imposed on the consumer. - I understand that. It's probably just an effort to protect the person in question who came to the exploiter, the real estate agent, so he doesn't have to sell his property over the real estate agent, but here, somehow, what's legally the point, i.e. the conclusion of a real estate contract, a sale contract or a purchase contract. So that's what's in the section - I don't know if it's two - that defines terms in our law, the very contract about... the real estate contract, now to be precise, given as one of the main objectives of the whole real estate business. This too, please, is confusing and requires some adjustment. Another, second to last, concerns the possibility to terminate a contract on real estate intermediation, while the notice period may be up to one month. What's the point of this? I'm asking. A real estate broker accepts a contract from a buyer, like a contract to sell him a property, a house. Within a few hours, perhaps a few days, he will prepare all the necessary documents, documents, in particular setting the price of the property on the market, whereupon the interested party will terminate the contract in turn after obtaining this information with a one-month notice period, the latter will cease to pay after those 31 or 30 days and he can use the knowledge he has acquired from the real estate broker. [[12.20 hours]] So this is no real estate market culture, as the Minister and the rapporteur have pointed out here. Why are we interfering with the market environment here? What is the meaning of this to the consumer, generally speaking,? It's useless regulating contractual relationships. The consumer is self-oriented, does not need such a high level of protection, has a free opportunity to approach or not accept proposals from the real estate broker and conclude the contract or not. If the length of notice proposed by the real estate agent seems long, he simply doesn't have to close the contract. And my last comment relates to § 19 para. 4 which says: If the contract in respect of which the real estate agent's right to commission was to be concluded because of inaction, misconduct or failure to provide adequate synergies to the real estate agent only after the termination of the real estate agent's commitment, the real estate agent shall not have the right to require commission from the customer. - Well, what contract are we talking about here? Perhaps the author is referring to the real estate contract, as defined in § 2 para. 3 of our law. So I guess we're talking about the real estate contract, the actual sale or purchase agreement, or the lease of the real estate. The author probably wanted to say that if the real estate contract was concluded after the expiry of the real estate agency contract, although the real estate agent was inactive at the time of the mediation contract, he doubted or did not provide, then he does not have the right to commission. He doesn't have the right to demand any commission at all. But that's not the point. Here it is necessary to understand the author's attempt to protect those interested, those consumers, from someone, from the real estate agent who makes the contract, does nothing for those interested, terminates the contract, then sells the house in good faith, and the realtor requires a commission from him. On what grounds? Perhaps only by lying claim that he did so during the period of validity of the real estate agency contract. Which, we assume, isn't Sunday. As I have already said, the superior law, i.e. the Civil Code, states in Section 2454 that the right of the intermediary to commission is not detrimental if the contract to which the intermediary's activities were subject was concluded or fulfilled only after the termination of the intermediary contract. The legislator here, on the one hand, protects the intermediary so that he has a chance to obtain a commission for his work, which has come to an end with a delay, only because the conclusion of the real estate contract has come to an end for the termination of the intermediary contract. So he wouldn't lose his commission. So that some, maybe even - maybe I'll say a little suspiciously now - the delay in the consumer's delay has simply come true. So it's not mentioned that there might be a reverse situation. So that the intermediary will meet all of his obligations and ensure that the interested party here somehow ensures that the conclusion of the agreed real estate contract is overdue for the expiry of the real estate agency contract and then claims that the commission doesn't have to be paid. The burden of proof will just be on one side or the other. Here, the burden of proof is not burdened by the real estate agent, as is the case with other provisions. And only the court would decide here. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these are things that have some real substance and which justify my proposal, which sounds like I'm proposing to return this law to the petitioner for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Feri will now appear in the debate, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna play from one record today, and I'm gonna give myself a brief chat. From what I have already mentioned in the previous speeches in the context of factual remarks, I would like to mention - and I have already discussed this with the Minister here in the context of the interview and was very helpful and tried to describe it. But for you here in plenary. In fact, as the provisions of Section 4, which govern the possibilities and obligations of the parties to the safekeeping, have evolved. The proposal went from the Ministry to the Government in the following wording. (a) to provide custody in order to ensure the performance of the real estate contract; (b) arrange for the provision of such custody by someone other than a bank, a foreign bank, a notary or a lawyer. It's perfectly all right. If it stays that way, I'm perfectly satisfied, I don't perform at all. But what happened at the government meeting? At the government meeting - which, in my opinion, is not the standard thing that some complex material that the ministry has been working on for a long time is going to go to the government and there will change a few words, completely by accident. That's not exactly standard. What happened in there? This provision has been amended as follows: the real estate agent is not entitled to offer custody in the context of the mediated matter (a) in order to ensure the performance of the real estate contract; (b) mediation of the provision of such custody by someone other than a bank, a foreign bank, a notary or a lawyer This means that there has been some seemingly insignificant change in the replacement of the word "providing" for "offering," with the fact that in practice it should probably not bring about any changes at all and no differences at all. But what does it mean to offer? Offering is some relatively vague name, some vague word. What do you imagine under it? Does that mean that when he comes into that office to negotiate the transaction or the contract, I don't know, the real estate agent's son says, "Hey, my dad knows how to keep it, too, and it won't cost so much more," so that it's like it's gonna fit, like it's just right? That it'll fit within the limit of this clause? Well, most likely, yes. That means, we're just making a seemingly huge hole here that can have inconspicuous consequences for clients in the event of, for example, embezzlement of the money. That means something happened in my opinion that was not standard in the government, no satisfactory arguments were raised for this. I know the secretary mentioned that it was after a deal or after a colloquium, a seminar, with real estate intermediaries. On the other hand, some complex material came out of the Ministry in a form that I can agree with. And all of a sudden, there's been some kind of unsatisfying change. So that's what happened there. I would also like to quote from the ministry's questionnaire survey, because I did not say that exactly and of course in the factual comment. It should be noted, first of all, that the questionnaire survey was conducted not only among real estate intermediaries but also among consumers. These intermediaries say the following - that's what it means. those particular real estate brokers, how they actually provide it. As I mentioned here, 47 percent, 588 respondents, say that they consider safe barracks. 25 per cent bank deposit, 17 per cent notary deposit. And what's paradoxical is that only 10 percent of those thousands of respondents consider safekeeping at the real estate broker itself as secure. Which is kind of weird that we're saying here that there's some big fight about it, that the real estate brokers want to do it. But I think there's a significant part of it, and the survey here gives me credit, on the contrary, a large part of it says - no, no, the barrister's safe. I'm not surprised. Who'd like to have 20 million at a time, I don't know, just like that? Anything can happen. And that's why only 10 percent of the intermediaries say the safekeeping is safe. [[12.30 hours]] As far as consumers are concerned, the situation is such that 68 percent of consumers, 723 respondents say that they consider safe only for these entities: lawyers, notaries, banks. And 30 percent says that they don't really care, especially if it's safe, if it's not possible in execution, if they don't lose the money in insolvency or if the money isn't embezzled. What we've been discussing here has been a matter of some kind of nation's legal consciousness. I really would very much like all citizens to know their rights, their procedural rights, how to defend themselves in a court of law, what to object to, and how to deal with their things, matters simply through a program of law. But I don't feel it. I don't think so. I don't think a lot of people can even imagine what to do with the money that they were doing (?) I mean, the purchase price that's going on with the real estate agent. Maybe somebody thinks the money's going to some separate account that's going to be run specifically, just ad hoc here for that purpose. But actually - and maybe part of real estate brokers is doing that, but I can't tell how much. But the experience, as I've talked to real estate brokers and lawyers, is that the money just comes in, spills into one account, everything is paid out of that account. There's some running expenses, office rent, anything at all. And when a situation happens as a kind of execution, the bailiff comes in and says, well, that's the money in your account, we're gonna touch that. And then the client will just have to defend himself in a very difficult way and object to "that's my money"? Let's just mention the question of who will lose the money eventually. If the buyer comes, the seller. What's going to happen to the money? That's really black Petr. And I'm making a little bit of a fuss here with that black Petr, but those are life savings that somebody's just gonna lose. Someone loses the property, somebody loses the money. In short, this remains unsolved. And what I owe to say is that only 12 of the answers from a thousand of them, so the answer was that they consider safe storage with real estate brokers. That means there's finally some... The Ministry has the data at its disposal, and it has also come out in legislative preparation, that people simply do not consider the custody of real estate brokers to be safe. Only a percentage of the thousands of respondents said the safekeeping was safe. I think the vast majority, the numbers show it, the vast majority of clients want the money to be safely deposited, to be safely deposited with lawyers, notaries or banks. [[Nesroz.]] As for the insurance and the argument - even a lawyer can run away with it. Lawyers are insured on units, notaries also, units up to tens of millions of crowns. And they are placed on them according to other legislation, and legislation not only by laws, but also by some ethical codes and internal self-government documents, much higher demands than currently on real estate brokers. Mr Kohoutek, through Mr President, mentioned here how easy it is to become a real estate agent. And I'm willing, and I'm happy to approach that logic, well, let the demands be the lowest of a real estate agent. But at some specific point, at some particular point in the contract, at that real estate purchase point, at that node point, which is the safe deposit, it should simply be professionalized in some way, so that the person who really runs only the fertile man and then does business freely, so that he has millions of crowns on him, which can be dirty for (?) - and he mentioned it very well here, too. If an MP here loses a property worth 100, 200, 300 grand, he's probably gonna make it. But if it's an old lady's house in a village that she'd lose because of, or some young family who's saving up, took a mortgage and lost the money, it's totally devastating. So much for that. And there's also some objection here about the fact that it's just some lobby attorneys, notaries, and that there's actually some huge money in it. It must be said that I do not know any such lawyer. And I've been here trying to find some arguments against this. And no one knows any lawyer or notary who's only living out of a safe house where it's essential. It's just another service provided to clients. It is provided professionally. The money's in a separate account. It won't work with them. The lawyer is insured, and the money is not subject to execution by the attorney himself. So it's a completely different, standard and qualitatively higher process mode. In the light of the above, I would like to propose, and then I will repeat it, the commandment and the constitutional law committee, and I would like to ask, for reasons not only of the safekeeping, it concerns the legal professions, but also of the provision of legal services, which is the question that has also been raised here. It was also addressed in the context of comments. I think that the Notary Chamber specifically applied the comments on this, and within the Constitutional Legal Committee, I think that, in particular, here on this issue, we should in some way express ourselves and stand up. Within the Economic Committee, I think there will be other issues to be dealt with. Ideologically, how much to regulate it and that. But here's the thing that's significant about lawyers, and we should be dealing with it. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me introduce you to the apologies that came in the meantime. Mr Špičák from 12.30 to 13.00 for working reasons today, Mr Dolínek from 14.30 to 1545 for family reasons, Mrs Malá from 12 to 13.00 and Mr Hnilička cancels his apology from 11.00 to 13.00, apologises from 11.00 to 12.00 for work reasons. In the general debate, Mr Skopeček, will now prepare Mr Martínek. Mr Skopeček is not present, so it is Mr Martínek's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the hearing, the relevant arguments fall from the representatives of the petitioners as well as from the representatives of the opponents of the proposal. I understand the need for at least basic consumer protection in the real estate market and, on the other hand, the effort not to complicate work for real estate brokers. I therefore hope that such modifications to the current proposal will be found, which will be more appropriate to the larger part of the House and to most Czech companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, no one is logged in or registered to the debate. I'm done with the conversation. Is there any interest in the final words, please? Madam Secretary, the rapporteur? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u70	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. So I have really listened very carefully and carefully to all the opinions of my colleagues, for which, of course, I thank you very much. I'm just saying, because I have to admit, I'm surprised at some of the performances that almost caught me by surprise. Because that law came from the Chamber of Deputies, precisely from the Economic Committee, where it was initiated by the subcommittee on the business environment led by Mr Martin Novotný of the ODS. So the ODS asked the Ministry to prepare the law. We are, of course, in agreement with the Economic Committee - an analysis has been approved before 10 October 2012. Of course, you probably have the analysis, but of course there is described both the analysis of the current state, history, legislation etc. And it was based on the context of the international comparison, where it was actually declared on the Economic Committee that you are so called. Unfortunately, the imaginary black hand of the market will not be here to advise and that we are really putting consumers at the risk of actually unfair practices by some real estate brokers. So, on the basis of these requirements of the Economic Committee and specifically Resolution No. 194 The Ministry of Regional Development has prepared this law. I must say that the law is very intense... it was prepared with the professional public, that is to say, with the Association of Real Estate Agencies, which is self-conscious that the market situation is disproportionate. Of course, those honest real estate agencies, they've been talking about it a lot, educate their employees, etc. The essence of this law is not only to get them the professional professionalisation of the real estate brokers, and this, of course, through tied trade, but also, of course, to ensure the insurance. And if we're talking about the insurance itself, the insurance is, of course, designed to cover the possible damage caused by misconduct, negligence or omission. No insurance in the world, no attorneys, no notaries, no one, no fraud. That means if someone wants to steal money, there's no insurance for it. On the contrary, what one of the Members here was saying is that, of course, there will be cases where water or some of these things flow out there, they'll forget to close the taps, there'll be some extraordinary... weather, etc., that's exactly what the insurance covers, and the brokers must have it. [[12.40 hours]] Next thing you know, it's about qualifications. Please, it's not true that a high school kid can't work as a broker. Of course he can. That's where practice counts. The electrician was mentioned here. If the electrician's been doing this for 20 years, of course he'll be able to keep doing it. If someone with a basic education would like to take the broker's path, then they will have to pass the proficiency test. As far as safekeeping is concerned, I was saying here, based on my introductory words, that I really expect this debate in committee. Maybe just a refill. We to the government, that is, in the legislative process of the government, have sent it with the fact that it is not entitled to offer. In fact, the fact that it is strictly not allowed to carry out the safekeeping through real estate agencies came only on the basis of the Government's Legislative Council. I have modified this in the context of this - I agree with what Mr Klaus said here that there really is a need to distinguish large business and small business. If a real estate agent who is qualified, etc., is active in a small village where he has been working for 20 years, he has confidence in people and it is about selling small things such as greenhouses, garages, small garden houses, there is no reason for the real estate agent to offer it to the grandmother or grandpa on his commission. But when it comes to big business, the point is, of course, that these real estate brokers should not offer their own safekeeping, but they should offer mediation of these larger business with notaries, banks and so on. In this context, it is necessary not to mix primary storage with storage mediation as such. As far as the treaties themselves are concerned, this is one of the other key things of the law. We have actually had several hours of debates at the Legislative Council of the Government in relation to the Civil Code, etc. Committees should serve this purpose. I would like to ask you again to discuss this in the committees, because Section 19 responds to the Civil Code Section 2435. I understand Mr Zahradník's concerns, but we already have a very detailed discussion with the Legislative Council. It's more of a question of explanation. 'Cause if I had to go out here on my own, it would be for a very long time. And it's very important to stand up for contractual relationships because someone sells or buys real estate once in a lifetime. Therefore, the regulation in the field and the regulation in the field of contractual relations is very important. Thanks again for the notes. We're really ready to respond to everything. I think that this is a really needed new law, which not only protects consumers but also responds to the market itself. It's called for by professional companies, professional associations. Let's settle the details that we have discussed here on the committee, as we have said in the last word, so that the law is as close as possible to everyone's requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. President Stanjura has applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u72	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform, but the secretary here used one argument foul. I have to make this right. You said that the subcommittee led by my former colleague, Martin Novotný, somehow put the government on the line. First of all, subcommittees cannot be in charge of the government. Secondly, the resolution of the subcommittee does not say anything yet about who voted on the committee. The chairman has a formal obligation to hand it over, I don't know if it was unanimous or not. At the time, we were still on one political side, if I'm not mistaken. You didn't mention that, like... if, that was our thing together. But it has nothing to do with what we're discussing. What the Minister said, if I wanted to sum it up in three words, I'd say regulation, regulation, regulation. I understand hopes too, but it's a repeated effort in many fields of human activity to protect people from signing a stupid contract. That's not really possible. Then I would like to say to the Minister that there are no small and large shops in my opinion. For someone, CZK 80,000 per garage could be a big deal, because maybe he's got $80,000 saved up and that's all he's got. And we can't say that one should have less protection than the one doing it for $8 million. It's just always relative to the purchasing power of a particular client, whether it sells or buys. In fact, the rapporteur mentioned this as a problematic point. I think the safe point is completely wrong. There are functional institutes that need to be recommended, and anyone who wants to be able to use working institutes today and we don't have to give any new law. This bill is really just an attempt at regulation. It won't work. The only thing that can happen to those who get fooled is that they'll be sure they're fooled by a qualified man. But that won't help you. If you're being tricked by someone who has a tied business or someone who has a free trade, the result is exactly the same. The guy was a fraud and he tricked one of his clients. Well, I don't know if it's gonna satisfy anyone that they're being tricked by someone who has a professional or a college degree because it doesn't matter. This bill will only complicate the situation. I might ask the secretary who actually supports the bill from the market. I'd take the liberty of guessing, but I don't know, it's just a assumption that big real estate agencies, multinational companies, they say it's a very good bill. I think that's another piece of evidence again - support for the big ones at the expense of the small ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, that's one point of view that the chairman of the ODS club, Zbyněk Stanjura, said here. It reminds me more of that left-handed look, which, of course, doesn't know who we're doing those laws for. I always hold to the fact that the police are not here for police officers, but for citizens that journalists are not here for newspapers, but for citizens that television is also for citizens and not for television employees, and we are here to make these laws for most citizens of the Czech Republic, not for real estate agencies. So I stand on the side of the majority of citizens, those - forgive me - 10.5 million people, because even immature people can buy real estate through their representatives and must serve real estate brokers for them. And that's why they need to be regulated, not because of whether it's for a small or for a big real estate agency, because we're supposed to protect the citizens, not the real estate agencies. That's why the law comes about. If we're talking about if there's a place - forgive me - 50,000 real estate brokers 70,000 and they won't have to have an education, except out of the 10.5 million people, we'll prepare a lot more of those who'll be damaged. That's the way I see our law to be for a citizen, not real estate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u75	Priority law - President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u76	I agree, of course, with the general sentence that we are supposed to do laws for people. And I didn't act to protect those who practice unfair practices. On the contrary, I said I didn't think it would help them protect this bill. But if I had to think about it, and that's the difference between the left and the right - the left believes in an all-powerful state, in constant regulation of everything, in constant control of everything. We, in turn, have basic confidence in the people who do this activity, that their motivation is not to deceive clients. That's the basic idea clash. Each regulation ultimately leads to services being more expensive and less accessible. This must also be said in the case of proposals for further and further regulations. We have here in the legislative process our proposal for every law to have a special attachment, a table of new obligations. I would ask the Minister if, by any chance, she does not go through the rejection, how she looks forward to the debate, so that her ministry can draw up a table of new obligations for everyone who brings this bill, so that it is clear exactly what other obligations the law brings, what sanctions are and what enforcement will be. That's important for all the regulations. [[12.50 hours]] Remember, we discussed this with other bills. If memory doesn't deceive me, we have 5,000 different offences in our legal order. And they're also to protect people. Five thousand. Who's supposed to know? Who is really capable of making a list of all possible offences that can be committed by natural or legal persons? And I think we've got enough to say for once. Instead of doing some proper revision of legislation, throwing things out, new and new regulations, new and new registers, new and new responsibilities come along. Over and over. Over and over. And this bill is a clear example of the fact that this government really loves new regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u77	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u78	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will try to be brief, but sometimes I will have to respond. I would like to say to all the liberal Members, who I consider myself to be, that the laws that we are here approving are not because they have to solve all the situations, 100%, that cannot be incarnate, but they are to eliminate something that is happening on the market. And here I will remind you that the task for the Ministry of Industry and Trade to do some analysis to address the so-called real estate law actually took place on the Economic Committee in 2012 and it was approved unanimously. That means all the members who were there, whether they were left, right, and ODS. That means I've been talking about it in my intelligence report for eight years. That's not the kind of thing the secretary would come up with. I also disagree that everything we're discussing here can be hidden under the word regulation. I told you, it's the definition of rules where the rules aren't at all. And I think that's the case. And as rapporteur, I have also communicated two areas that I consider problematic, and then you have specified it, and that is allowing the safekeeping and solution of these trials. That means that... I can see it. But there's no reason to deny it either. That is precisely why we should go to the second reading and discuss it there and deal with the partial things so that the result is something that defines the rules and protects consumers. Not that it's regulation that's supposed to complicate things. Otherwise, for myself, for the rapporteur, I must say that there was trash... [[Noise in the hall, Mr. Faltynek calling: Time!]] I'd like my ANO colleagues not to disturb me, if I may. Thank you. And as rapporteur, I must say that there has been a motion twice to dismiss, once to return the law to recast, and once to discuss the amendment in the constitutional committee. I shall therefore ask for the vote in question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-003-029.u79	Thank you, rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote. As the rapporteur has already said, so has the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion by Mr Zahradník, and the motion for rejection has been made twice in the debate. We will now deal with these proposals by voting. First of all, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. We are voting on the return of the submitted proposal for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 106. Registered 166 Members, for 55, versus 83. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 107. Registered 166 Members, for 46, versus 85. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. As a guarantee committee, an Economic Committee has been proposed by the Organising Committee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? No, we'll vote then. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 108. 166 Members registered, for 159, the proposal was adopted. Although the Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, a proposal was made in the debate at the commandment to the Constitutional Committee. Is there any other motion on the commandment of the next committee? It's not. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee for discussion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 109. Registered 166 Members, for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that the proposal will be dealt with by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee and by the Constitutional Committee. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and I conclude the discussion of the first reading of this point. Opening point number
