ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u1	183. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2016 /German press 113/ The report submitted was discussed by the Election Committee. The committee resolution is available as House press 113/1. I now ask the rapporteur, who was Mr Petr Dolínek, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. [[He's not responding.]] Once again, I ask the rapporteur, who was Mr Petr Dolínek, to inform us about the committee's deliberations. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u2	Good morning, dear fellow Member, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. I present to you this way the Annual Report on the activities of Czech Television for 2016 as rapporteur on behalf of the Committee. This report comprehensively evaluates the functioning of Czech Television, documents and evaluates the fulfilment of the legally defined service to the public, the production and dissemination of television programmes in the Czech Republic, especially in 2016. I would like to stress what I say here at the beginning, to realise what the message's mission is. She's really trying to answer what the law gives her to tell, and she's trying to evaluate her activity. Czech Television recorded a very successful year in 2016 - from the perspective of 2018 who already know some numbers, we know that the year 2018 was even better, but we must look at this in the context that the report was for 2016. So from that point of view, it was a very successful year. The share of Czech Television in the audience was the best since 2008 in the main broadcast time in 2016. Czech television as a whole reached a viewing share of almost 31 percent in the 15+ group in that year. First of all, the fact that ČT 1 was able to get ratings from 19 to 22 hours in the primetime, which I think is a very good performance in sharp competition with other commercial channels, which give multiple means to create this primetime. Of course it is appropriate to talk here and highlight what is very pleasing in the report, and this is the Czech TV:D, a channel for children, where we show the highest ratings compared to public television in other European countries, and ČT 24 is the most successful news channel in Europe, as well as the Czech TV Sport. This means that these products are successful in the long term and these products really have a primary in European comparison. Czech television also fulfilled legal obligations. In 2016, Czech Television had programmes that were equipped with sign language according to the required percentages, i.e. at least 10 per cent across all channels, as well as the other parameters that are required have succeeded. I would also like to mention that the Czech Television, without imposing the law on it, continued in the so-called so-called third year in 2016. labeling shows, which is very important for many Czech fellow citizens. I believe that the report has nothing relevant in it to call into question the conclusions of the Czech Television Council. I would like to remind you here that the process is such that the report is first discussed by the Council of Czech Television, then it goes to the committee and then the committee comes here in plenary with a recommendation. The Council therefore discussed this, according to the committee's discussion, there was nothing relevant to questioning the content of the report. Public television performs tasks under the Czech Television Act and I therefore recommend it for approval. And I would like to say that the electoral committee during this parliamentary term - this report has already been discussed by the House of Deputies, but for us the current conclusions of this parliamentary term are - so the Election Committee dealt with the House press 113 at its 5th meeting on 27 March 2018 and recommends the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approves Parliament's Annual Report on the Czech Television's activities in 2016 according to House Press 113. And I would just like to join here so that I do not have to report to the debate immediately, an addition that the position of the Social Democracy Club at this time also supports this report and the social democracy, our Members, will vote in favour of this annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u3	Thank you. Before I open up the general debate, I will inform you that Mr Onderka is voting with a replacement card number 10 and Mr Marek Výborný apologies for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 11.40 to the end of the day due to working in the region. I am now opening up a general debate. A Mr Valenta, a Member of the Rakušan Member, is entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must apologize to you for the second time today and I will be performing quite long, so whoever has no interest in listening to this debate - I will not put procedural proposals in my speech - can have lunch. My performance will take at least half an hour, so please understand. I don't often perform, but this subject seems quite serious to me, so don't be angry with me that I'm going to overstep the standard of performance here in the House. At the very beginning of my speech, I must say that I am not in any way concerned with making sense and naively attacking the very nature of the existence of the public media itself, in this case Czech Television. On the contrary, I am of the opinion that its existence is absolutely justified and socially absolutely essential. At the same time, however, this does not mean that we must be realized, I note the highly opaque, the way in which it is financed and, in particular, a society detrimental to the style of news and publicity, indifferent. This is really an effective parliamentary attempt to remedy the situation, which I consider not only in connection with the said management of Czech Television, but especially with its present activity to be problematic. In some respects, the Czech Television Council is completely toothless and even does not act in cases where it could or should. I note that unlike some obvious populists or hurt political egoists, always engaging in social demand, while at the same time ideologically saturated party secretariats, I have long tried to make an objective contribution to the settlement of significantly distorted wannabe professional conditions on Czech television, and my practically annual appearance to reports on the activities and management of Czech television is simply verifiable. Unfortunately, I am one of the few who is honestly trying to achieve change here at the speaker's desk, and not just in the context of non-binding private debates in the Chambers of Culars. Despite the explicitly declared support of many of you, the House's vote on the reports of Czech Television always results in the way it does, i.e. in favour of virtually daily registered and convicted biases, biases, half-truths and often de-honest campaigns. Despite this aspect, some of the Czech Television's preferred politicians are always happy with the statement that there are many problems on Czech Television, but not so great that everything is not actually okay. In which medium in the world everything is actually okay, we can ask questions. Despite this aspect, some still try to defend Czech TV, meaninglessly and unnecessarily. There's no reason. And so the activity and management reports are always knocked out by the House for a given year and moving on. [[11.50 hours]] I always, and I very much hate to think of the sentence of a rather well-known actor, at some point also a Member who warned me: I am not saying that you are not right in your reservations about Czech television, but you can never win the fight with it. But I'm not fighting anyone. I am merely trying to ensure that all citizens of their Membership are given objective patterns of information, at least the standard behaviour of editors, moderators and other employees of Czech Television and their impartial and balanced approach in all possible issues addressed in the context of human life. Now, after some time, we have another annual report on the activities of Czech Television, this time in 2016. When I deliberately say that after some time, I want to express this statement that I am grossly dissatisfied with the time the Czech TV reports are discussing here, perhaps to forget, justified indignation and anger are wearing off, the edges have become dull and the criticism of all the discords on Czech television has become acceptable to some people, i.e., it has somehow been appropriately diluted not to be so dense. But unfortunately, or lucky for me, I don't forget who I'm forgetting. And on this report I once again have my specific and inconsequential reservations, which correspond to the concerns of many citizens about the fulfilment or rather failure to fulfil the functions that the public-law Czech television results from the valid law on Czech Television. Ladies and gentlemen, I say, and it has also been partly said here that the Czech Television's biggest handicap has been found, not only in 2016, and found in the fields of publicity and news. Of course, it certainly is not responsible for this almost dysfunction of the public medium, the institution itself. But as much of you subconsciously feel and understand, the true culprit is responsible and also very above standard high-level management. This has not only, in my view, been completely out of control of effective social control, while it retains its political tendency not only completely undesirable, but even strengthens it. In short, I will now just turn to the management, with which the activities of Czech Television always closely correlated. For your information, even the Supreme Audit Office cannot control the Czech Television's management today. In this context, I ask, for example, why moderators Václav Moravec or Nora Fridrichová still fear the publication of their salaries and Czech Television is hiding them. Why, if they're being paid out of public funds? Do they mean more than any of us constitutional officials whose salaries are public? Or are we already in a state where media power and the mediaocracy itself stand even over the legislative power in our state? He said no, in the words of the CEO of Czech Television. Our company is not only ready to publish the salaries of prominent employees. End of quote from the director. But, for example, in the opinion of the Vice-President of the Czech Radio Council, Tomáš Kňourek, the perfect readiness of 3.5 million dealers to send almost 7 billion fees is probably more important, which we have grown into. However, the result of the supplied mix of television non-transparency, bias, tenderness, hypocrisy, half-truth, or other forms of subliminal public influence is hard to believe. Unfortunately, this has been happening on Czech TV screens for a long time, not only since 2016. Then, for example, the anniversary of the German occupation of our territory, at least in the opinion of Vice-President Kňourek, is commemorated by the Czech Television in the range of normal traffic accidents on the motorway. That's the end of Mr. Kňourek' quote. The CEO Petr Dvořák argued on the Czech Television screen last March in this connection, so that Members should adopt the appropriate regulation of the law to the possibility of control by the Supreme Audit Office that it does not bother him at all. So please, let's do this together. We have already begun to discuss the relevant amendment to the SAO Act. I am at least one with the Director in this regard. With the huge assets of a managing public institution, it is not possible to go through only some formal control of the annual reports in the Chamber of Deputies, which are discussed mostly with a distance of several years, which are content-filled with information from the external audit ordered and paid. I do not want to expand any further on the very toothless supervision of the Czech Television Council, which is also paid from the Czech Television budget for a limited purpose. In the shadow of such lack of control arise numerous, often also, I admit it, even unjustified suspicions. The disgruntled citizens can then in their homes only be subject to amok from the fact that the Council of Czech Television annually taps the Director-General's remuneration according to the management contract up to ten times its monthly salary, I note the salary, which has been paid since 2017 and increased not long after the approval of the annual report in question by the Council of Czech Television to CZK 242 000 per month. Similarly, he is not naturally honored on Czech television alone. For your information, the salary plus those annual fees make the Director-General of Public Media a better honored person than the President of the Czech Republic himself. Zeman only takes CZK 252,000. In quotation marks only. Some might also say that the bad state of the Czech Television may be given by the fact that a capable and enterprising CEO may be in a tow of all-powerful editors who have fallen into enormous self-confidence, incredible self-love and overestimating their own forces. In this respect, however, I agree with Martin Komárek, the former President of the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, who said that Mr Dvořák is not in any kind of tow that he is an integrated personality, but must make peace with some editors and therefore let them do what they do. And as an example of Dvořákův's conflict with Mrs. Drtinová and Mr. Veselovský, which then ended in a friendly exit, and the petition against him was quickly withdrawn by the other petents. Also, please, since I am now naming Mr. CEO, let him try to ensure that there is no such bizarreness or attempt at them, such as when Czech Television should have paid CZK 12 million to PR agencies for the next four years to improve its reputation in viewers. One of the selected agencies Bison and Rose was co-owned by the influential advisor of former Interior Minister Miloš Růžička. The AMI Communications agency, whose sister company used to lobby for him to take the lead in Czech Television, was also to Petr its Dvořák. The concessionaire money should never be used to hire external PR agencies. Czech TV has enough apparatus. And now, quite specifically, the content of the report. The public opinion polls that took place in 2016 showed that the overall perception index of Czech Television as an institution that helps citizens understand the world in which we live has reached 59 percent. Even lower, up to 56 percent, the consent index falls with the fact that Czech television could transmit a true picture of reality. Unfortunately, there has also been a decline in the very monitored category of perception of diversity of views. And now, please listen carefully - compared to 2014, the perception of objectivity, versatility and balance of information has been radically reduced by a gigantic 7 percent, up to a very trivial 61 percent. All this data contains the submitted report, which I highly recommend you not to approve. However, in connection with the activities of Czech Television for 2016, I would also like to suspend the results of the analysis of the Centre for Media Studies of Charles University, which was prepared by the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council for CZK 327,000 towards the objectivity and balance of Czech Television before regional and senate elections. According to the results, Czech Television has permanently put non-voting parties at a disadvantage, has permanently not given all subjects the same space, and has, on the contrary, clearly sided with the TOP 09. After all, we could all see Kalousek, without any analysis, on screens practically daily, not once. At the same time, it permanently disadvantaged KSČM, some other non-governmental parties and some parliamentary parties. According to the factor that compared the really dedicated space to the parties in Czech Television with the importance of the party in social and political life, the authors of the study concluded that TOP 09 was overpresented by 60 percent, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD by 50 percent. So many quotes from analysis. And the Radio and Television Council has long refused to publish this analysis, as well as other analyses relating to the elections in 2016. Analyst Jan Křeček of the Centre for Media Studies of Charles University sees the errors of Czech television in this respect rather in the ingratitudeless bias, or in the preconception of some editors and editors of the TOP 09 party, which seemed more important to them than to the status of this subject in the political and social life of our country. But they don't really want to pay for such professional failings in their overwhelming majority. The conclusion of the analysis was that penalty measures within the meaning of the law could be implemented for breach of objectivity and balance, but the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council did not grant Czech Television a theoretical amount of between CZK 5,000 and CZK 2.5 million. This also appeared on the pages of idnes.cz in 2017. [[12.00 hours]] In a better case, Czech television is useless, in a worse case it is harmful, and I will therefore welcome any procedure that would relieve me of my obligation to sponsor this institution. For example, this is the opinion of the MEP, profesor Jan Keller. Unfortunately, Czech Television's self-defense response to legitimate public criticism also carries with it the increased activity of various interest groups organizing support actions, whether in the form of petitions or other protest events, where it is suggested to the general public that there is a threat of total destruction of independence and publicity on Czech television, which is basically total nonsense. And many experts prove that fact. For example, media analyst Jan Mikeš also confirms the hypothesis of excess history of the only legitimate tellers on Czech television today, saying that there is no threat of liquidation of public media. Let her do her job and give her objective information. Freedom of the media exists here, but they just can't make people look like fools. On the other hand, however, it is also wrong for some politicians to lick the favor of Czech TV and go to various debates, arenas, and they are happy to be invited there. He's supplying Mikeš. Another of the many dissatisfied is, for example, former Vice-President of ČSSD Jiří Zimola, who claimed that the Czech Television has a number of problems in the long term, even sparrows on the roof are already chirping. And he's gonna have to realize that he's just gonna have to take criticism for some of the steps. In the same way, some moderators who sometimes confuse conversations with folk commissioners' interviews will have to get used to criticism. If Czech TV's internal problems are not addressed, democracy may eventually be threatened. So much for Mr. Jiří Zimola. I'm sure you won't be angry with me if I properly interpret the media expression of some important people or experts with dissatisfaction with the activities of Czech television shown by ordinary citizens. For example, some of the letter from Mrs Helena Kočová, which I received this year, which protests, for example, that on the ČT:D channel designated, according to the Czech Television itself, for the audience group from four to fourteen years of age, took place before leaving for the school of political pilgrimage, for example on February 1948, and calls it a genius step towards growing willing glued sheep from their diapers. And I'll keep going. The media expert, profesor Jirák, claims that Czech television is experiencing a certain cooling of professionalism and its journalists feel that they are in a position in which they do not have to control themselves. In many cases, it is demonstrated by its bias, convinced that Czech Television is overreacting to the content of the news, and if the news is regularly watched, then it knows who it loves and does not like. So many profesor. Jirák. MEP Jan Zahradil writes on social networks about Czech Television - they don't report, they raise and then wonder when people prefer to go to various servers because television education is already coming out of their ears. The former member of the Czech Television Council, Jana Dědečková, said that people have no desire to pay for the constant promotion of the opinions of a group of people who privatized public television and the institution for themselves. Another member of the Council of Czech Television, head of the Department of Media Studies UJAK Praha Radek Mezuláník, said that public funds are failing on Czech Television and the Council of Czech Television only controls what the management allows or offers and only works with what the Director-General will present to it. A high-quality manager with public feeling and experience would not allow such a level of programs as ČT Reporters or Václav Moravec's Questions. And he adds that in the Czech Television Council, rather than direct politics, which some purpose-based civil societies are talking about, he met with clientelism, indulging, bribing, ignoring or diverting financial flows. And if the board is under any influence, it's management influence. In order to enrich the number of dissatisfied people, I can mention, for example, an open letter from the former staff of the JUDr Radio and Television Council. Tomas Tyl from March last year. It is stated here that there is a number of normative regulations binding on balance and objectivity on Czech television and that in this respect Czech Television is no longer an information source in the sense of public service and is only a means of communication of a particular group of people with a clear view and a very sharply defined view of all events. And some of the control activities of the Radio and Television Council. At one of its meetings in 2017, she noted that Czechoslovak television, for example, did not provide objective and balanced information on the broadcast of the American Election Night programme and thus committed a breach of the provisions of Section 31 (2) of Act No. 231/2001 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, and stated that the principle that opinions or evaluation comments had to be separated from intelligence information was not respected. However, I would like to add other specific cases of apparent bias and tendency, which are already due to the content of the report itself. And this time, I'm going to take these cases directly to our side. Do you think, colleagues, that although KSČM was the third strongest political party in the Czech Republic in 2016 and quite stronger than today's party is the second, i.e. the ODS, none of our representatives appeared among the twenty most frequently presented politicians in the Czech Television session 24 in the monitored programmes Events, Events, Comments, News in 23 or Week in politics? Or that the intensity of mediation, if you want the number of statements of representatives of the KSČM in the events or sessions of ČT 24 has always reached sixth place in the order and in front of it more often appeared ODS, but above all TOP 09, up to two- or three-fold. What do you think about the fact that among the twenty most frequent guests in Events, comments or programme 90' ČT 24 was Jiří Dolejš in the 20th place? And before him, for example, several representatives of the politically much weaker TOP 09, namely Mr Kalousek, Pospíšil, Plíšek, Laudát or Mrs Langšádlová. Where was the respect for the results of democratic elections then? Are they even necessary after that? And do you really now think that Czech TV is not as large with ideology and also with TOP 09 members as it is generally claimed, and how does the head of state see this, among other things? But he sees it almost everyone who wants to see it. This is how the quality of the publicist and news activities of Czech Television, which are mentioned above all in their speeches, is decreasing in the downward curve, but not only since 2016 so far, but we can look for the roots of this situation much earlier. It cannot be noted that the credibility index of Czech Television fell by three percentage points in 2015 to 65 percent in the general population of 18 plus. According to Czech Television, the main cause of the trend that has been going on since 2013 can be seen in media attacks and the ongoing questioning of the independence of Czech television, especially by some new propaganda media and also by high political and social authorities. Well, that's a really brave excuse. Rather, I think that the ordinary concessionaire is neither blind nor deaf when watching Czech Television. In this way, greater or less dissatisfaction with the activities of Czech Television is expressed not only by so-called ordinary dealers, ordinary citizens, but also by some of their political representatives, MPs or senators, whether former or current. I believe that now they will not be angry with me when some of their interesting media expressions here, although not in their entirety, spoken in different contexts, but practically always cited and so easily documented, I will repeat at this point. For example: Jan Veleba, SPO: Czech Television no longer fulfills its function, which it follows from the law. Radek Rozvoral, SPD: ČT is a moloch, which informs objectively, and there is already more evidence of its imbalance. Božena Sekaninová, ČSSD: The cause of this condition is the non-objectivity of Czech television. This is what most residents see today. And if one of the representatives of Czech Television admits that they must inform according to instructions, it is very wrong. [[12.10 hours]] Jaroslav Zeman, ODS: I am not sure that Czech TV will ever be changed. Lubomír Volný, SPD: Antipublic law organization is completely out of control. And I will not be surprised if the management and activity report is not repeatedly approved. Milan Brázdil, YES: I already know that Czech television often does not provide objective information, so it helps to feed the so-called mill with its little bit. Stupid mood in our company. The question is, why is that and who is behind it? Jiří Kobza, SPD: Public Media has become an instrument of one-way propaganda, manipulation of public opinion and censorship of information. Ondřej Benešík, KDU-ČSL: Personally I have reservations about the work of some ČT workers. Jana Levová, SPD: The state of Czech television is in such a state that we must act. Martin Kolovratník, YES: You cannot ignore the growing criticism of Czech television from media critics and from the general public. A big topic for the board to discuss. For the House Media Committee, the need to ask strict questions and to look for solutions. And that's in January. - He wrote it on Twitter. Jana Černochová, ODS: Transmitting Czech Television during the so-called I didn't watch the whole election night. In general, however, I have the feeling from the news about the last elections in the US, not only in Czech Television, that commentators, reporters and analysts have spoken very often rather than objectively in line with their wishes and hopes that Trump will not be able to do so. Otherwise, the objectivity of Czech television within the so-called "Czech Television" The election night was also expressed by another ODS member: The American election night on Czech television seemed like the funeral of Brežněv. Perhaps he was the same dramaturgist, laughed at the ODS expert on education Václav Klaus ml. Tomio Okamura, SPD, also expressed himself: Our long-term attitude towards the Czech Republic, when we consistently draw attention to manipulation and tender broadcasts, is also the reason for the constant slander of the SPD and Tomio Okamura on the Czech TV shows. Marie Benešová, ČSSD: I no longer consider Czech Television news to be objective, impartial and balanced. It is high time to pay due attention. Martin Komárek, YES: Against the political spectrum, the negative view of Czech television prevails. Jaroslav Doubrava: Unbiased broadcast? That stinking sewer of half-truth and manipulation? According to Czech Television, Putin, Zeman and Trump are to blame. Others accuse the spread of conspiracy theories and misinformation while spreading them themselves. They promote for money the citizens of the Czech Republic, for seven billion a year, their havelistic, sunny worldview, when we have to climb the European Union and NATO to Brussels for eternity. Finally, perhaps a statement by the former Minister of Finance and now the Prime Minister from January 2017, an opinion on the objectivity of Czech television. And old-fashioned President Zeman. Well, Andrej Babiš, YES, to CT: You are part of the campaign. People pay CZK 135 a month for you, you have 5.2 billion and you do manipulated things. And you're corrupt and you're reporting on order. However, on the 2016 activity report, the current Prime Minister and head of YES Andrej Babiš said that Czech Television is not in danger. And he's not going to attack public media. A relatively principled opinional grande, not unlike his opinional laurels about the adoption or non-acceptance of the euro. Finally, Miloš Zeman, president of the Czech Republic: Public TV is not objective. It is unilateral, is largely influenced by TOP 09 and I consider it to be a failure to comply with the public service and a failure to comply with the relevant laws applicable to the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I would like to conclude my speech on the 2016 annual report on the activities of Czech Television. I would very much hate for it to be misguided as an attempt at purely communist criticism, on the contrary. This is mainly about strengthening the critical resonance of the voice of a huge part of the Czech public. And I am not only obliged to do this by virtue of my duties as a Member, but also under the Constitution. I would never wish, and believe me, that Czech television should be connected in any way to KSČM as it is now connected to post-havlistic, unelected structures or, for example, TOP 09. Although sometimes her efforts miss the effect. After all, it is quite clear and clear over the sun, and I am not the only one who is naturally registering this aspect, that our public media, with its consistent and precisely targeted attacks, together, has made Andrej Babiš the winner of the parliamentary elections and President Zeman's attacks similar, often below the belt, have proven to have helped defend the presidential mandate. Ironically, on the other hand, the Czech TV-stricken party, at least according to the said study by Charles University, almost did not reach the House. And I would not want this to happen because of the excessive favor of Czech Television and our communists. Therefore, thank God that media professionals from Czech Television don't really like us. But seriously now. Dear colleagues, the Czech Republic belongs to all of us, not only to Members, as many interested lobbyists try to hypocritically talk to the public about how politicians want to dominate it. It does not even belong to the management of Czech Television. It does not belong to ČT employees themselves. It doesn't even belong to people sucked into her billion-dollar money lines. Again, it belongs to all citizens of the Czech Republic without distinction of social, economic and political status and should behave like this. In this respect, I hope that parliamentary democracy means something in our country so far, namely that democratically elected representatives of the people, Members and Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, through their elected Council of Czech Television, and not actors, directors or other artists, decide on the fate of the top management of the public media. I quote, some of them actually artists in quotation marks. Just the actors, maybe. And believe that they are now anxiously guarding their pre-bends out of the stale conditions of Czech television and, as is known from the various TV crises, they are able to organise even loud protest events effectively. They also warned the public in advance about the alleged takeover of Czech television policy, even involving school youths in their transparent protest schemes. They even came to check on the electoral committee last year, which discussed the reported activity report. And, for example, director Jan Svěrák switched significantly on his departure: God knows what would have happened if the public had not been involved in Czech television. - Yes, this is what disrespect looks like for our system of parliamentary democracy with its free elections. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that some possible arguments have already been made by me regarding the non-approval of this report. I certainly didn't have the ambition to introduce everyone here. Not even all the essentials. However, I believe that even without the fact that I did not describe many other problems in the activities of Czech Television in 2016, there may be a bad situation in our most important public media, especially in sector areas of activity, that is, publicity and intelligence, which are very important for maintaining democratic conditions in our country, you will think and you will also draw on your own experience and the responsible decision to vote then show whether you are or are not at work, the words submitted by the reports with the activities of Czech Television were satisfied in 2016. At the same time, you will also consider whether Czech Television actually provides objective, verified, balanced and versatile information in its entirety for free making of opinions, as is quite in line with the Czech Television Act's dictum, which has also entered this institution into its status. Personally, however, I am not satisfied, and therefore not only I, but also Members of the KSČM, at least majority, will vote in favour of rejecting this report. Its double rejection, as you know, can mean the dissolution of the Czech Television Council and thus the start of the necessary changes and progress towards the real quality of the public service media's work as our citizens wish in their vast majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u5	That was Mr Valenta. Now I'll read the apology. Mr David Kasal apologizes from today's meeting, until 12.30 o'clock for personal reasons. Now I have three factual points here. So as the first Mr Lubomír Španěl, Mr Juříček will prepare and then Mr Gazdík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I volunteered with the facts right after the news report. I didn't get the floor of Vice-President Fiala. Unintended, I hope. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to the rapporteur and to the news report. I, together with my colleague Míla Rozner, am a member of the electoral committee and we certainly did not vote for any of the reports on the management and activities of Czech Television. And since we are at a point about the activities of Czech Television, I will pass on the management and read to you what I have prepared: The activity of Czech television does not resemble an independent medium even remotely. Czech Television News is long-term manipulated and completely biased. The comments of political scientists are one-sided and completely in context with the demands of so-called. the perspective of Czech television on the topic that has just been commented without the presence and space for the opposite view. Czech television often manipulates and twists facts. A deterrent example is, for example, the 168-hour program that uses, or rather exploits, the art of editing, pulling things out of context, and the hidden filming of people, which it subsequently uses for targeted dehonestation or ridicule of politically uncomfortable people. I won't be far from the truth if I label some of the CT shows as brainwashing, especially the smallest viewers, for example on the so highly praised children's program D. Critics on the activity of wannabe independent public television would be on a long list and would only be repeated many times. Pre-election polls on the hunts of a distant reality are just the peak of this glacier. Therefore, we will not vote in the SPD for any report on the activities of ČT in 2016, nor for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u7	Thank you. Another de facto Member, Petr Gazdík, will be prepared by the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u8	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. To Mr Valent through Mr President. I understand that the KSČM would love to go back to a time when the powerful party of the government ran all sorts of things, and organized what television news is supposed to look like. But, Mr Valenta, through the President, you are deeply mistaken about one thing. And I'm asking you to read the Czech Television Act, where it's clear. We are not really the ones who have to deal with who will be in the management of Czech Television. Czech Television is independent of the Czech Television Act and we really do not have to decide who will be in management. Our task is only to vote for advice, possibly approve the report and to ensure the independence of Czech television. I understand that comrades would want something completely different! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u9	Thank you. Now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala. He shall prepare himself with the de facto Member of Valenta. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u10	My point in fact concerns the speech of Mr Spaniard. Mr Member, through Mr President, to be explained. I could not give you the floor on a factual point when I was in charge of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations, because Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that a Member may refer to a factual point with the fact that he is responding to something that was said in the debate. And since the debate has not yet been held, it has not begun, so I could not give you the floor. Someone has to speak in the debate, and then it is only possible to respond by a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u11	Thank you. Now, with Mr Jiří Valenta in fact, a Member of the Španěl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u12	Thank you for the floor. I am only in a brief response to a colleague of the previous speaker Gazdík, by your means, Mr President. You see, my colleague, I agree with your opinion. Thank you for him. But every time you say that, maybe there's some major issues going on in the House, and I can't decide when I'm discussing it, I have a dilemma, so I'm gonna see how you and your party vote, and I always vote the other way around, and then history will always tell me the truth. So thank you for performing like this, but I would recommend that you find my performance on the screen record, because I actually said everything about it, and I never said that we politicians as Members will influence Czech television. I have made it clear here that we are voting for the Czech Television Council. Either you were deaf or you weren't listening, or I don't know what kind of job you're doing it on. Maybe to confuse the public again, as is your good habit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u13	So now I have no further applications for a factual remark, so I will read three apologies and in the meantime prepare for the general debate by Mr Vít Rakušan. So I have here Mr Milan Pour's apology from 3:50 a.m. to the end of the session for working reasons, and I have here Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's apology between 12:15 and 6:00 p.m. due to negotiations in the electoral region. And I have read Mr Kasal. So I will now ask Mr Vít Rakušan to speak and Mr Jiří Kobza will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I promise, without preparation and without paper, that I will not speak for as long as my colleague Valenta from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has shown here. I would just like to start by saying that it is a good thing that we are finally getting to discuss the news of Czech Television, because we all know what it would mean to not discuss the news in two years' time in a row, and we could actually in this whole context ask ourselves whether it is not a negotiation and non-approval of the news, because we simply do not like this Council of Czech Television from some political point of view. I will not have the ambition, like my colleague Valenta, to evaluate Czech TV in a style that I like about it, what I do not like about it, because it will, of course, always and under any circumstances, be highly subjective to our political assessment. None of us is saying that we are always satisfied with the Czech TV performances. On the other hand, it is a public service medium, which, from the principle of what public media means for a democratic country, deserves respect and deserves, of course, that we protect them from influences, which include, of course, statements from the context that are being drawn from the context, that various citations of politicians are being used for this performance, and that the analysis of Czech television is being presented here, and that it is no longer possible to mention that there is not Czech television to the analysis, but other sociologists involved in the opposition analysis, which says that the basis of the analysis of Charles University was not right, compared with publicity, mixed publicist shows with news, and that is simply not mentioned here in this debate, because it is not suitable for us. I really wanted to ask for one thing. We are actually sticking to the facts, sticking to the fact that the annual report has passed through the electoral committee, where it has certainly been discussed professionally, and we certainly have a report on this meeting from our representatives on the electoral committee. Let us also stick to the fact that the debate here at plenary is really about what we are discussing, i.e. 2016. Mr Valenta, through Mr President, has, of course, also chosen on this point statements that had nothing to do with 2016. I would also like to mention the fact that we should also be exemplary in the fact that we control something that is media literacy, which is work with information, and we should ourselves stick to some balance and some discretion in our performances, because the politicisation of the topic of Czech Television simply can never benefit the medium as such. And if they appear here on various private profiles of Czech politicians, Czech MPs just before we vote on the Czech Television news, all kinds of anonymous reports about the fact that the financial statements are not in order, and nowhere is the source of the information, it is simply an anonymous report, we as Members simply release a picture of ourselves into the public space and say: it is not for us to verify the relevant sources. I would very much like to call on us to stick to the facts that are in the report on the activities of Czech Television, we can, of course, be critical to them, let's talk about the individual items of the report, let's talk about them specifically, but let's not play games here, we'll pull some statements from the context, we'll put them behind us, and we'll argue that this is the credible, correct picture of Czech television. I mean, it's always just a subjective opinion of each and every one of us. We as Members, if we want to have a relevant and rational discussion, we really should stick to what is in this report. We are discussing this here, we are discussing it for a long time, but let us not play that we should be judges of whether Czech television is objective, is not objective, we like its broadcasting, we do not like its broadcasting. This is not the subject of negotiations on the annual report of Czech Television. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u15	Well, thank you. And with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Culture Staněk. I'm sorry, because you've been logged in before, so I'm glad you're getting the relevant space, 30 minutes minimum. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u16	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the annual reports of Czech Television in the Chamber of Deputies today. I would like to make it very clear at first and call on all colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies to approve these reports. It is clear that the non-approval of annual reports would be political pressure, which could mean the appeal of the Czech Television Council and the need to elect a new Council. And I really don't see any reason for this move. In my opinion, Czech Television works well, performs its role and manages transparently, which is illustrated by the annual reports that are being discussed today. Of course, neither Czech TV nor the people working there are flawless. I may not like everything Czech TV does. For example, I see problems that have been solved around the children's canal and unilateral interpretations or suitability of the content offered to children. However, I am convinced that the problems when they appear, so the Czech Television tries to solve them and eliminate them. As far as financing of Czech television is concerned, I consider it stable and secured for further years. There is therefore no reason to change the amount of licence fees and this topic is definitely not a topic for the nearest time. Czech Television and Czech Radio as public media play an important role in today's society. Probably even bigger than a few years ago, when there were still hundreds of other information and disinformation sources trying to act as objective intelligence. We live in a democratic society, and I will always do everything I can to continue living in it. Values such as the independence of the media and the freedom of speech represented by the public media must be honored and protected. I hope that my colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies share a similar view. We will approve the annual reports of the Czech Television and thus prevent efforts to threaten the independence of our public television. I would also like to draw real attention to the fact that Law No. 483 on Czech Television clearly gives the Council the right to appoint, call off the Director-General, approve the budget, control the efficient and economical use of funds. So the criticism, if it should be a criticism, should be directed to advice, not to Czech television. And finally. There will certainly be a tactical maneuver to merge the discussion of individual messages. That's what I consider purposeful. Individual reports are different, at least two reports are about activity and two reports are about management. On the other hand, this suggests what I said at the beginning - To create political pressure on Czech TV by not approving two reports, for example, and there will be room for that enormous pressure on public media to be created in the third discussion of the third annual report. I beg you that the reports that are being discussed today to take them as we should, as an expression that Czech television is operating transparently, are operating in accordance with the laws in force in this country, and all of this is illustrated by the relevant evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow ourselves to be carried away by interests other than rational ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u17	Now I have two factual points here. So before Mr Marian Jurečka comes to the speaker's desk, I will read one apology. Mrs Jana Pastuchová, from 14.30 to the end of the day, apologizes for health reasons. So, Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Radim Fiala will prepare and then Mr Patrik Nacher's third application. So, Congressman, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u18	Thank you. Good noon. I would just like to make a factual point here to respond to a fellow Member of Valenta, who also mentioned in his long speech that KDU-ČSL had perhaps a significantly higher share in the Czech Television programmes in terms of political parties and its representatives than should be appropriate. So I would just like to remind you that the power of the political party is not only measured by the number of mandates in the Chamber of Deputies, but if I take the whole Parliament, both chambers, of 281 members, KDU-ČSL has representation in the number of Members and Senators at level 25. When I look at the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, if I am not mistaken, it is 15 Members and 1 Senator, so in the sum of Parliament it is significantly lower representation for communists than KDU-ČSL has. And then I would just like to remind myself that at regional level we have a very similar number of mandates, and as for the number of municipal politicians, KDU-ČSL has the largest number of elected municipal politicians from all political parties and movements in the Czech Republic. We have about 4,000 of them, while the Communists, if I'm not mistaken, have about 1,400 of them. So much for explaining that the public isn't confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u19	There. I will now ask for the speech of the President of the SPD Radim Fiala and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am merely a technical reminder of the Minister of Culture who has spoken here and who said that not approving this report actually means political pressure on public television. I have to say no. I think it's funny, 'cause we should be discussing this here. Here we should tell each other what's right, what's wrong. I say for myself, I certainly don't want to threaten public media in any way. But on the other hand, I also say that I want it to be balanced and objective and objective on all sides. And I can say, as someone might say here, that Mr Valenta is a communist and that this is a communist speech, so if you have noticed, he quoted many politicians, many Members, many senators from both sides in his speech. Left and right. From communists to social democrats, to ODS. And they all had reservations, but no one said any subjective reservation in that sense: I was there little, much or something. Or someone talking to me in some bad way. Everyone was communicating about trends, about trends in Czech television. And I think that is correct, because we are here as a parliamentary control to ensure that Czech public television does not deviate in one direction, so that it is objective on all sides. I also wanted to say one more thing, because this was said by the Minister of Culture, that no one wants to increase the licence fees, the television fees of citizens. I'm planning this performance except for the part about the Czech TV business, but I have to say, Minister, if it's going to last two more years, you probably have nothing left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u21	Now I have five factual points in order here. Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Stanjura and Mr Valenta, Mr Klaus, Mr Sklenák, will be the first to prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u22	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to the Minister's words, if he could listen. He was talking here, criticizing something that no one here has ever designed, and he's probably not going to suggest, that's a merger of debate. But I will remind you that on the electoral committee, we have merged the debate in a purely practical way. It then votes on each of these proposals separately. But because you, too, were talking about management in your contribution, and I'm the reporter of the management. And how one should react when there is something about activity, something about management. It's connected, of course. So we have merged the debate there for these very reasons, but, of course, each report is voted on separately. So just so much to explain. What happened on the election committee, and no one's designed it here yet, that's the last performer, he's probably not gonna suggest it, so just so we don't get scared of something that doesn't happen here, but by the way, there's a ratio.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u23	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, will now prepare Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to point out the calendar. He's from January 2019, we're debating the report for 2016. That's our report card. Our testimony to us as a whole that we are debating events of 2016. First of all. Secondly, I would like to remind you that we have an electoral committee that, once we have opened the law, we could rename to the media committee, because it is a much more accurate description of its function, where we have repeatedly discussed these reports, we would discuss it, including a merged debate. I want to say that by a significant majority of the electoral committee, or media committee, it recommends approving, I think they were all in favour and three abstained, or one abstained and two opposed. It must be said that those who did not support the report, and it is their full right, legitimate, did not actually make specific reservations in the debate as to why they think this is wrong. It's just a description of the activity. Then I'd like to respond to the balance and the surveillance. Note, it may also be logical that all performers focus only on one part of the activities of Czech Television and that is news or publicity. It's not like that. The original play-making, shopping, sports transmissions - it just goes sideways because politicians are logically interested in the section that concerns our work. I know that many of us would prefer to have interviews in the Czech Republic in the form of a government MP intersecting a minister or a prime minister. Prime Minister, would you mind telling me how you're doing this is so great? The Prime Minister or Minister will answer: It's even better than I expected. What is it? I'm just great. It was shown here that in 2016 the TOP 09 party was allegedly favoured in the debates. Don't let my colleagues get mad at me. Do you know the results of the election? How'd it go? It helped them, didn't it? Look what happened to the election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u25	The next is Mr Valenta with a factual, then Mr Klaus, Mr Sklenák and Mrs Langšádlová, so four applications at this time. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u26	Thank you for the word, for the last time, but for the last time. What Mr Stanjura said here is 95 percent agreeable, even if it is not the election result. This is about the favor, the bias. Oh, my God, everybody understands that. The election result is always the interplay of something other than the broadcast of Czech Television and its promotion of someone. But most of all I wanted to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Jurečka, who here described the political state of the Czech Republic in 2018. But, Mr Jurečka, through Mr President, I have been talking here all along about 2016, when the Communist Party had 33 members, the captains, it was in coalitions, it was overwhelmingly stronger than your party. So I don't know why you're mixing 2018.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u27	With another de facto Mr Klaus and Mr Sklenák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u28	Hello. I am a newcomer in the House and I am very interested that we have 31 January 2019 and are discussing the report for 2016. It seems to me that Czech Television is without any parliamentary control, that it is a state in the state. And some of the others are asking us not to get involved here because we're mean when we say something. Now let me get to the point. I don't think it's public television. That's the word they invented to black out the public and those stupid people, to peek at them. That's just national television. We're here to determine the licence fees that everyone has to pay. So television needs some public control, and in all horror, there is no greater public control or better than there are Members from all sides. So it's quite logical that we're debating this, somebody likes it very much, how they broadcast it, somebody doesn't like it, and that's gonna produce some kind of result. But let's not yell here when someone says something critical, because they have a sacred right to do that, because that's our role to evaluate in some way here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u29	Now, Mr Sklenák. In the meantime, I'll read the apology. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 12.40 to 13 hours for work reasons. Please, your two minutes. Mrs Langšádlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u30	Thank you for the floor. It was said here that Czech Television is or should be under parliamentary control. But that's a big mistake. On the contrary, Czech television must be independent and the task of all of us is to defend independence. Our predecessors, who adopted legislation and the Czech Television Act, tried to depolitize it. That is why, for example, the board members are not proposed by politicians, but by associations and other organisations. If they knew how we were gonna mess with the idea that if we didn't approve two messages, they'd never include her in that law. That's why we've already got four messages here. Of course, we will not vote today. I think we'll meet here in a few months, and the news won't be four, but there'll be six. That's actually our card. And I challenge you all, let's not mess around with the idea of controlling Czech TV. What it looks like when politicians control the media, we all see that. Let us be happy for what Czech TV looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u31	Another one with the facts, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, and a Member of the Španěl will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to completely disprove the fact that any TOP 09 page was preferred. The analysis that we are talking about here, which President Zeman or colleague Valenta has already mentioned, is really extremely poor and incompetent. Finally, it is confirmed by this document, which you can learn about, to which several universities and several sociologists have applied, and which speaks of this analysis in such a way that the overall analysis contains a number of deficiencies so serious that its conclusions cannot be taken as a relevant basis for assessing the balance of broadcasting. In short, it's nonsense, spread nonsense, repeatedly spread nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u33	The other is Mr Lubomír Španěl with a fact and I have Mr Marian Jurečka here as the last in fact. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr Stanjura's criticism through Mr President. I can no longer remember when and as I spoke on the electoral committee, I certainly spoke, maybe it was on the board, but I just want to remind you that at a time when I had no idea that I was going to be a Member, we collected a huge number of signatures, and I don't remember how many signatures it was, either, under a petition with which I, despite the then member of the Jarda Holík media committee, obtained a hearing with the electoral committee, Mr Komárek was chairman at that time. The hearing then aroused quite a great deal of interest from journalists. I presented my views and opinions of the SPD quite comprehensively there. So I think I've done this a couple of times. To this day I remember the answer to Vít Jandák, who told me that I came to cry on the wrong grave. I wouldn't want that to happen. I'm on the election committee today, and I'm glad we're discussing this to the fullest. Anyway, everyone has an opinion, everyone has a right to an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u35	Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, the last in fact. If there is no further application, Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared for the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u36	Thank you. I thank my fellow Member Valenta for the response, but I will disappoint Mr Valenta by the optics of 2016 because although the Communists had 33 MPs, they still had one senator. We had 14 members and 16 senators at the time, but we still had one captain like you, and we still had the largest number of local politicians. So please look at this through the optics of 2018, and in 2016. You can't turn KDU-ČSL into a force that's weaker than you. In many ways, we are stronger, so please try to respect it nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u37	Now, therefore, for the general debate, Mr Jiří Kobza, so far the last one entered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, hello. After the exhausting speeches and remarks we have heard here, I will try to be factual and brief. The year 2016 for Czech Television, at least according to the reactions of citizens that we have already started to collect at that time, can be seen as a crucial moment in the decline of citizens' confidence in information distributed by Czech Television. We can demonstrate how, for example, it has been informed about emigration, how it has been informed about the resolution of the refugee crisis, how various subliminal messages have been sent to the already mentioned children's channel ČT. We know an affair about refugees from the planet. Not on the planet Jo, who tried to prevent a monster with three chins. Which, of course, I don't understand that the editors still work there. [[12.50 hours]] Through Mr President, I would like to follow up on the contribution made by Mr Rakušan, who mentioned the contradiction of views. I think that the Chamber of Deputies is the place where conflicting views can be heard, unlike Czech television, which is absolutely clear. And we saw it in 2016, when we went to the first elections as the SPD, to the regional elections, when we already had about 6,000 members, waiters and applicants for membership, not to mention sympathizers, we had very, very limited access to the media, and any mention was in percentage of what the competing parties had. So the question is, where are we going to look for objective and balanced news that Czech television should provide? Since the Czech Television is still paying for the roughly 5 million dealers and Czech Television, which - said here that it is a state in the state, I would rather say that it is a ministry in the Ministry, because its budget is about half the budget of the Ministry of Culture. It's too škoda the Minister left. I also wanted to follow up on his own evaluation of Czech Television when he considered it good, which means three, so not much. The fact is that development has been beginning to develop since 2016, the message from 2016. If Czech Television presents some opinion, some view of the evolution of events in the world, it is a variant that we can very likely rule out that it is definitely different. After all, I can skip to 2018, how it is informed about the genocide in Yemen committed by Saudi Arabia, but this is for example. So we're getting into such an interesting Newspeak according to Orwell that actually, and it also said here that even though Czech television praises someone, it doesn't do him much good. I would say that for the patriotic and objective truth proclaiming party praise from Czech television would be the kiss of death. I would end my speech with this, because I think that the activities of Czech Television require a fundamental and profound revision in terms of restoring objectivity, restoring citizens' confidence, because so far what Czech Television is doing, and especially the tabloid editors, is losing that confidence. So without any thorough revision, he will not gain that trust. And I don't see the slightest attempt at self-esteem, I don't see the slightest effort in any way to fight for that trust. On the contrary, I see an effort to impose my opinion, no matter how tender it may be, simply to roll public opinion, regardless of what citizens actually perceive and how they confront the information from the Czech Republic with information obtained from other sources, mainly from social networks and the Internet. The fact is that 2016 was a turning point in the sense that there was a significant change in the Czech Television course, and unfortunately the following years continued. So I will certainly not vote in favour of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u39	Well, thank you. And now I have two factual points here, so Mr Pavel Juříček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm looking at it pragmatically. I'm far from criticizing Czech TV whether it's fair or unfair, but let's just take a look at the actual numbers. In 2012 251 million losses, 2013 261 million losses, 2014 544 million losses, 2015 277 million losses, 2016 137 and fair 2017 12 million. These are actually operating losses, which are covered so that Czech TV is at zero on the economic result, and so they are covered by the television fee fund. And when we look at it, which one thing economically is always profitability or lossiness, and the other thing is what is cash flow movement. So let's see that since 2011, cash flow from 3.8 billion is 2.2. So where's CZK 1.6 billion? That's what I'm asking. And I think it is fair to ask the Czech Television Council, or the management of Czech Television, about corrective measures and what happened. And actually, if you look at the director's argument that they're investments, then if you really look at the depreciation rates of investment and real investment, for example. for 2017, they are thus 54 per cent of the depreciation as a whole. So even this argument from the point of view of investment is not true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u41	I will read the apology and I have another factual one here and it is Mr Jan Hrnčíř, who I think will be prepared and from 13 o'clock to the end of the day Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes for health reasons. So, Mr. Hrnčíř, please do the deed. Okay, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the report on the activities of Czech Television, I would like to respond to the words of the Minister here, who says that the management of Czech television is transparent, and I dare say that it is not transparent. Because we don't know where the licence fees are going at all. Moreover, the management of Czech TV is evenly balanced, but only because of the fact that money is being spent, which was intended for digitization, the previous management, which I think is wrong. And it's very clear what the future will be like if it continues this way. Either the television tax we call concession fees will rise, or the state will have to bail out other taxes by Czech Television, or it will have to privatise. And given the lucrative land and other things that the Czech Television has, maybe some oligarchs are interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u43	Another, with a factual remark, by Mr Leo Luzar. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many arguments have already been made here in this debate, but I would like to know one argument that may have been overheard. What about the position of the independent control office in the framework of the control of Czech Television? Some say, he doesn't control it, I say, in the history of the SAO he checked Czech TV. It was the year he checked the licence fees for Czech Television. I said, where's the truth? Where the possibility of a check ended, if any. Why hasn't the Czech Television featured in the control plan of this independent control body for many years? It's intent, if that's what it is. Why? The question remains hanging somewhere in that space, but it is well used because the SAO doesn't control them, so, or vice versa, it's so clear that they don't need and have internal control mechanisms through advice and others who control it. That is my question, which here in this space should be answered and clearly clarified. Does the SAO have the competence to control Czech TV in the context of licence fees? Because licence fees are only a certain part of the funds managed by Czech Television as an entity. But in my opinion and in the history of the SAO, I think for the largest part, i.e. licence fees, the SAO has the right to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u45	Now, even Mr. Foldyna wanted to take action. It's 59, so I'll give you some space... no, so I've got Mr. MP for another de facto... It's already one o'clock. So at this point, I am interrupting the negotiations and wishing you a good taste.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-003-183.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I am ready to begin, because I have a bunch of apologies in front of me. Mr Petrtýl apologizes to us for today's meeting from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Strýček from 1545 to the end of the sitting day, Mrs Jarošová from Rozvoral to the end of the sitting day for work reasons, Mr Válková between 14.30 and 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Bláha from 14.30 to the end of the meeting of the sitting House, Mr Valachová from 14.30 to the end of today's meeting for working reasons, Mr Holomčík from 14.30 to the end of the working day for working reasons, Mr Pustějovskýějovský from 1545 to the end of the sitting day, Member Balaštíková from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Member králíček between 14.30 and 15.00 for working reasons, Member Ruthová between 14.30 and 15.30 for working reasons. And now it's time to start the next item on our program, which is
