ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u1	120. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Support and Protection of Investment between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran signed on 18 December 2017 in Tehran /German press 124 / Second reading I beg the Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. This material is presented on the basis of Government Resolution No. 398 of 22 May 2017 approving the Agreement on Mutual Support and Protection of Investment between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The Agreement was signed in Tehran on 18 December 2017. And now it is submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to its ratification. This is another international agreement that strengthens the legal status and functioning of Czech investors in Iran. In this context, I refer to an international treaty already negotiated to avoid double taxation or an international agreement on economic cooperation. In the negotiation of this investment agreement The Czech Republic follows other EU Member States that have already negotiated such an agreement to support and protect investment with Iran, which are: Bulgaria, Finland, France, Croatia, Italy, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Germany, Poland, Austria, Romania, Greece, Slovakia, Spain and Sweden. Japan, the Republic of Korea and Switzerland should be mentioned from non-EU countries. The conclusion of the agreement thus only equal status of the Czech Republic with other EU countries. The agreement makes it much easier for Czech investors to operate on the Iranian market and brings protection of Czech investment, including the possibility of using the dispute resolution system through international arbitration. This protection regime is all the more necessary at a time when international trade and political relations between the Islamic Republic of Iran and its trading partners are confronting a number of unresolved issues. By ratifying this agreement, we will provide Czech investors with a non-existent level of international protection, including in cases where similar changes to national or international policies will adversely affect the business environment and protection from national courts will not be an appropriate tool for resolving disputes. The Agreement contains all standard guarantees and principles of investment protection, such as: the standard of equal and fair treatment, the prohibition of unlawful expropriation, the standard of full protection and security, followed by the latest trends in the negotiation of international agreements on the promotion and protection of investment. The agreement is compatible with EU law and takes into account the specific legal environment of both Contracting States. It shall be concluded for a period of 10 years and shall enter into force on the 30th day following receipt of the last notification that all the formalities necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement have been fulfilled. The Czech Republic's representative office in Tehran informed the Ministry of Finance that the text of the agreement was approved by the Iranian Parliament. The agreement shall be valid until one of the Parties has given written notice. After written termination, the agreement will be applicable to investments made before termination for a further period of ten years, which means that termination does not automatically deteriorate legal protection for already made Czech investments in Iran. Given that the rights and obligations of persons and/or persons are to be regulated by this Agreement. things whose regulation is reserved to the law. According to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, namely Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 112 point (a) of CRR. (a) and (e) this agreement must be negotiated as a presidential treaty, so approval by the Czech Parliament and ratification by the President of the Republic are necessary for its entry into force. The agreement is in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. It will benefit the cooperation of the Czech Republic with the Islamic Republic of Iran in the economic field. The agreement itself should not interfere with relations with our strategic partners, such as Israel and the US, because they are based on wider cooperation and not merely on the issue of Iran. However, we share concerns with strategic partners in a number of matters, including Iran's ballistic programme, Iran's activities in the region and human rights, and regularly these issues are raised by representatives of the Czech Republic in relevant bilateral and multilateral forums. Given that a number of European countries, including EU Member States, have a similar agreement with Iran, the agreement will ensure comparable protection of investors and their investments, as enjoyed by other EU Member States. The continuation of the joint comprehensive action plan is a priority for all EU Member States, including supporting the development of economic relations with Iran. The development of economic relations with Iran is also an instrument for complying with this plan on its part. The Czech Republic also participated in the adoption of a number of EU countermeasures against the extra-territorial effects of US sanctions, among others. so-called update. the 1996 blocking regulation to which the EU responded to these sanctions by the US. After entry into force, the Investment Agreement will not affect our obligations in the field of sanctions and export controls. The joint comprehensive action plan merely ended the economic sanctions against Iran. The remedial regimes relating to the nuclear programme, including the modification of exports of dual-use items, and the human rights penalty regimes have remained in force. As far as the volume of Czech investment in Iran is concerned, we currently have information only about the only project which is the construction of a coal mine in the province of Kerman by Ostroj, a. s. The value of the project exceeds 70 million US dollars. The Czech Republic's trade with Iran for the first eight months of 2018 exceeded $60 million, which corresponds to the result in 2017, when the trade for the whole year reached $92 million, which corresponds to the result, as I said, in 2017. Following the introduction of sanctions, the interest of Czech companies on business opportunities in Iran has been reduced, but the interest of Iranian entities in the Czech Republic is growing. The main export areas are glass products, electrical engineering, transport and agricultural machinery, mining equipment, energy and waste management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u3	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies now. So Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologises from 12 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Monika Jarošová apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for work reasons and Mr Zdeněk He apologized from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes from 13.00 to the end of the meeting for working reasons. The Foreign Committee resolution was delivered as House Press 124/2. The proposal was initiatived by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 124/1. I ask that the foreign committee rapporteur Jaroslav Holík take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's report was so detailed that I had almost no room left to add anything. All I can say is that the Czech Republic is a small industrial country that needs exports, and that is why I am in favour of approving this agreement. I will then read the details in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u5	Thank you. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Madam Miloslava Vostroa, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u6	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 20th meeting of 20 February 2019 on the Government's proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic will agree to ratify the Agreement on Mutual Support and Protection of Investment between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran signed in Tehran on 18 December 2017. Following the opening words of the Deputy Minister of Finance, following the report and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution. First, the Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Agreement on Mutual Support and Protection of Investment between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran signed on 18 December 2017 in Tehran; Second, empowering provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u7	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate in which I have no one registered, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for any final words. Madam Secretary, the rapporteurs? You're not interested. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. It will therefore be a resolution presented to us by Mrs Vostrá as rapporteur. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. Oh, that's why I asked you to report to us. I will open a general debate. Excuse me, I am opening up a detailed debate in the sense that Mr Jaroslav Holík, rapporteur for the Foreign Committee, will give us a resolution from the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the Foreign Committee resolution of the 26th meeting of 21 February 2019. After the statement of reasons of Deputy Minister of Finance Ing Mgr Stanislav Kouba, in Jaroslav Holík's intelligence report, the Foreign Committee I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement on Mutual Support and Protection of Investment between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran signed on 18 December 2017 in Tehran; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-010-120.u9	Thank you, and I therefore conclude a detailed debate and ask if there is any further interest in any final words. Newsletters, Madam Secretary? I don't see interest. We will vote on two resolutions. Firstly, here we have the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which was presented first, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. Second of all, we have heard the Foreign Committee resolution here. The first shall be the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. I'm going to call a Member of the Gong to the O.R. The resolutions are identical, there will only be one vote. I'll call the Members to the O.R. I think we're in sufficient numbers here. We'll wait. The resolutions are identical. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 145 Members voted in favour of 108, against 0, the result was adopted, and the motion for a resolution was agreed. I'm done discussing this point. I'll read another apology. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. We'll start discussing the next press, it's about
