ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and other related laws /house print 582/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Here, too, it is suggested that we decide on it at first reading. I will ask my colleague Patrik Nacher, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to also take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Now, under the authority of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade will state the press. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has been drawn up in the context of the need to adapt our legal order to the adopted regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and, in principle, brings, in particular, an increased degree of harmonisation of the rules for the effective and effective cooperation of supervisory authorities in the enforcement of consumer protection legislation in cases of cross-border trade. And if I say it a little Czech now, the point is that our authorities - let me give an example, Czech Trade Inspections, EROs, Czech Telecommunications Office, Trade Offices etc. - if they see that in the border businessmen - such as Germany, Poland or other countries - intervene in some way in quotation marks, unfair or problematic ways and influence what is beyond a certain law, they have the opportunity to turn to the so-called central office, which is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which will actually translate this into the side of our neighbours, such as Germany or Poland. The essence of this change is that, in the light of the adopted regulation of the European Parliament, surveillance on the market is expanding from seven to twelve possibilities, that is, it extends, for example, to the right of access to certain documents, to request information from any body, to carry out on-the-spot checks, all of which should help to ensure that our consumer is not negatively affected. [[Nesroz.]] The Government has discussed, approved it on 26 August and in this context and with the need for a short or early adaptation of the Czech rule of law to this new regulation, as well as the fact that it is purely an adaptation or adaptation amendment to the law, I would like to ask you, honourable Members, to support this proposal at today's meeting and to approve it at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček for his opening words. I will now ask Mr Patrik Nacher's rapporteur to present his report for first reading to the Chamber of Deputies. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, colleagues. As has already been said, and in this case, it is proposed that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the proposal at first reading. As has already been said, the government doesn't put it here at the last minute, I say this in advance because it was approved in August. I've got my news report when I look authentically, I've got a date five. 9. That means that since then it's been moving on by the very previous points before it comes down to it. I am saying this here because this regulation needs to be adapted to the legal order of the Czech Republic so that it is applicable in its entirety from 17 January 2020, when it takes effect. In other words, I would also like to discuss this earlier, so that there is no suspicion that it is given at the last minute, and then the 90th is mentioned, but the fact that it was received only at this time, after two months since I first processed the news report, was given by the way we discussed other prints here in the first, second and third readings. Otherwise, as has already been said, the proposal is defined in principle by the central liaison office for the authorities responsible for the enforcement of the specific obligations laid down in the adaptation regulation. The point is, in principle, that the influence - and this is linked to the change of the previous one, which I also took the liberty of reporting and which has passed through here in the 90s, when the development of electronic commerce and digital technology is caused by the decline in trade between countries, and therefore the protection of consumers in those dishonest entrepreneurs who abuse this form and sometimes hide their identity. In addition to those mentioned authorities, so as not to delay, which is mentioned here by the Minister, there is talk in the material about the European Consumer Centre. So much for a brief intelligence report. I would also advocate the approval of the first reading in accordance with Section 90. Thank you. Excuse me... 90 paragraph 2, to be exact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u5	Thank you. I am opening a debate in which I have no written application. I see an application from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, Mr Vice-President, I would demand - it may not be immediately, but to clarify whether this press, whether the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of EU 2017/2394 of 12 December 2017, which we are to adapt, whether this commitment, the adaptation, results from international agreements concluded by the Czech Republic - yes or no. It is not quite clear to me whether it follows - it does not result from international treaties. If so, I note that the Rules of Procedure have not been fulfilled and the Annex is not a translation of the full text of these legal standards to be implemented, but I am not sure. It's probably a question of legislation, and I don't need an answer right away. However, the rapporteur says it's not at the last minute that it's been here for two months. I'd almost push a tear when I think of our designs that have been here for over a year. But let's be fair. I said that the directive, the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, was approved on 12 December 2017. How long did it take the government to send it to the Czech Parliament? Twenty months. It's at the last minute. It took the MIT and the government 20 months to send it here. Yes, it's been here for two months now, but I don't know what the MPO did for 20 months. It doesn't seem so complicated to me that we would embroider it for 20 months today and every day, that there would be so many contradictions between ministries before they clarified or rejected all the comments. So somebody overslept, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade overslept, possibly the government. I don't know who the minister was at the time. I know it wasn't the current minister, but it doesn't matter. [[16.50 hours]] The rapporteur says he doesn't want to delay. You did not delay us, Mr rapporteur, through the Vice-President. On the contrary, we welcome every debate. I think we will also be debating this bill, which is why on behalf of the two ODS and TOP 09 Members' clubs, I am vetoing the discussion of this bill pursuant to § 90 para. 2 and I would also like clarification into the future, if these are adaptation or implementation standards, whether this results from the commitments made and from the contracts referred to, or not. In that case, it must always be part of the Czech translation of the full text of the legislation, which we are to adapt, implement, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u7	Thank you. I have heard the objection, so we will continue the debate according to the normal provisions in three readings. We can therefore continue the debate. The rapporteur is reporting for the debate. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u8	I don't know if I'm gonna follow the procedure exactly, but I'm not as experienced as my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. Only in that case, if it was a veto, I'd take the liberty of suggesting that the deadline be reduced by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u9	Okay, I'm filing that as a suggestion. Who else in the debate? Mr. Pávek's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u10	I thank you, just for a very short time. Dear colleagues, I believe that there has already been a consensus here that we will not really shorten the deadlines for implementation or adaptation standards from the European Union, and that is to force the ministries to deliver these documents on time, and not always at the last minute, so that we do not stand here as many times before with other standards, when there is enormous pressure and it is said: you have to approve it, or do not read it properly, we have only two months left, so hearing on committees in a hurry, in a hurry, in a short period of time... And then it comes from very often imperfect and unfortunate laws, which very often go against even the original. So, on this occasion, I would like to remind you that we have voted against the 90th against the short-terms here many times together across the political spectrum, so that we can teach these ministries to deliver the materials to us in time, with translation and a separate text of the original regulation or directive, and what was stuck there at the ministries, so that it is also understandable and we can discuss and discuss it better on committees and other bodies of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-005-032.u11	Thank you. If no one is reporting to the debate, then, of course, what colleague Stanjura said, if the Czech text is missing, it must be the subject of the committee's discussions in very detail, because in that case the conditions of the legislative rules for submitting a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies are not met and we are likely to have to take it to the meeting of the Organising Committee. I don't want to delay the debate, if no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? It's not. The rapporteur? He's not interested. We will therefore continue, with a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days. We will decide that in the next vote. I'm gonna re-engage you all and apply for a new registration. Please sign up with your voting cards. Before the number of applications is settled, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is an apology by Mr Miroslav Kalousek from 16.45 to 19 hours for work reasons and from 17.00 to the end of the sitting day with Mr Martin Kolovratník. We will decide on the proposal to shorten the time limit in the committees by 30 days in the vote number 212, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 212 of 147 for 62, against 64. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore discuss the commandments of the committees. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 213, which I have launched, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 213 of the 148 present for 148, against no one. The motion has been approved. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone else have a draft commandment? It's not like that. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee and the time limit for the hearing remains by law of 60 days. I'm done with point 32. I thank the rapporteur and thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. Before we go any further, I'm going to ask for more prints to be submitted under the approved agenda of the meeting or I'm going to pick them up. [[Short break.]] Forgive me for a brief interruption. Let's continue with point 9. Point nine, we're getting back to the program at second reading.
